in writing. in europe, four macro-regional strategies are in place, linking regions across the borders of several eu countries. their role is to cooperate more intensively and more effectively in achieving the objectives of their socioeconomic development and better living conditions and to build a european identity with respect to regional and national identities. slovakia is involved in the eu strategy for the danube region, which focuses on building transport and energy infrastructure, promoting mobility, tourism and cultural development, and protecting the environment. the alignment of their objectives with those of the eu strategy in all common areas is essential to the meaningful implementation of these strategies. this also requires the creation of conditions for simplifying the financing, administration and procedures for drawing on the resources of several financial mechanisms, in particular the union's structural funds.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i want to comment on the annual change of summer and winter time. what might have seemed like an advantage or a saving 100 or 50 years ago is now more of a burden to our citizens. the annual change of time is an anachronism in the age of the digital economy, like a steam engine. the argument that daylight saving time saves electricity is also untenable, because in indiana, for example, when daylight saving time was introduced, instead of saving electricity, it increased electricity by 1%. the time shift also has negative effects on human health. research from sweden shows that heart attacks and traffic accidents increase by 5% and even 7% in the week after the changeover. another team of scientists found that the number of work-related accidents would increase by 5.7 percent during this period. people are just disoriented, they don't sleep, which affects their attention. so there are a lot of arguments, and i believe we will resolve this issue soon in the interest of our citizens, their health and safety.
mr president, the peace agreement with the farc was also a victory for european diplomacy and external action. we have invested great resources, political attention and effort in supporting colombia’s path to peace, to help create a political and social context in which the implementation of the 2016 agreement was possible. but the situation today after the latest eln terrorist attack and the collapse of the ceasefire is becoming fragile. the eu was right to despatch eamon gilmore as a special envoy. he played a key role in the peace deal and this should continue. the eu should actively support the implementation of the 2016 accords in full. in this respect, the trust fund for colombia is a useful tool. it should be expanded and all member states should contribute. it requires long-term investment in reconciliation, inclusive democratic institutions, and economic development.
madam president, it is fair to say that the eu voice was missing when thousands of iranians started protesting last year. while it is understandable that we had been building a relationship with iran for a long time, we should not be at all shy to react when people are protesting for dignity, freedom and especially for their economic survival. we have long been advocating the liberalisation and democratisation in iran, which i do not think is in contradiction with the nuclear deal that we stand behind. in the end we are profiting from the deal. therefore it is really disturbing to see that ordinary iranians might not feel its benefits. despite the complexities of the situation, we should focus on measures that can assist the processes of democratisation in iran. at the same time we should engage in discussions with the iranian authorities and make it clear that hostilities against their own population could badly damage our political and economic relations.
in writing. the eu commission president j.p. junker, in launching the bulgarian presidency, said: 'i remember that bulgaria went through relatively rapid and intense changes before joining the eu, but it has established itself successfully and we have high expectations from it now.' it is a historic premiere for bulgaria, but it has set out with fire the main priority themes it wants to address under eu leadership, namely: european security, young people, stability in the eu, the outlook for the western balkans and the digital economy. the importance of these circles is also the common denominator of the statements by the representatives of bulgaria, the eu, the council, the commission and the parliament, where it is precisely the reforms of the asylum system and the middle east security policy (which failed in the 4 previous presidencies), the successful functioning of the digital single market (together with the next 2 eu presidencies) or the deeper linking of the balkans with the eu in the fields of energy, telecommunications and education, that will contribute to a more intensive and effective cooperation at several levels. the bulgarian presidency will set a number of important things in motion and will contribute to a better functioning of both the eu and the member states themselves.
for the ecr group. madam president, allow me to explain briefly my position on today's report. first of all, i would like to highlight the work of the rapporteur, mrs tomc. from the outset, our cooperation has involved rigorous consultation and an open approach. and i also want to thank all the other colleagues who have worked on this issue. i agree with many of the suggestions in the report. i agree that we need better exchange of comparable data and more active access to more vulnerable young people or young people outside the larger cities. it is important to me that the report warns of the risk that european union funds can and sometimes tend to replace national funds. but the initiative is meant to be a driver of reform. it must not replace the member states' own policies and ideas. i am therefore very cautious in accepting a future commitment in the form of a draft initiative as a long-term instrument of the european union before we clearly refute all the shortcomings in the way it works, as pointed out by the court of auditors, for example.
madam president, the youth employment initiative once again proves that nothing is more durable than a temporary government measure. like the temporary euro currency or the temporary bond buy-back, this initiative was intended to be temporary. but as you can see, it is a complete illusion to think that european bureaucrats will give up on redistributing money. youth unemployment is undoubtedly a major problem in several member states, but it is a problem that member states must address. it's a classic agenda that falls within their purview. we do not need european coordination here, quite the opposite. we need a best-of-three concept competition. and we're not going to solve youth unemployment with subsidies. the real and fair solution is to remove barriers to doing business, reduce workloads and reduce red tape. with billions more in subsidies, we are only reducing the pressure on member countries to undertake bold reforms and ultimately preserving the status quo.
in writing. it is certainly right that the european commission has taken various measures and that the european institutions are actively trying to combat the causes of high youth unemployment in the european union, especially in the post-crisis period. progress is evident. however, continuing to reduce youth unemployment further remains an important challenge. unemployment remains one of the european union's top priorities and even with the slight improvement in the situation, there is no need to be overly optimistic and forget the real problems we face together. european support schemes must be designed to help all young people, including young people with disabilities who have been unable to find a place on the labour market for a long time. european mechanisms are intended to complement, but not replace, national funding for youth support. unfortunately, in the past, the way it has often worked is that the member states have used these resources to finance existing measures rather than creating new ones. the european union must seek to adopt policies and instruments that will benefit citizens even in times when europe is economically failing and stagnating.
madam president, i would like to thank my colleague, mr zwiefko, for his report which, without interfering with national competences, tackles the serious and practical problem of international child abduction. and thank you to your colleagues for the inspiring contributions and insights you have given on this topic. the breakup of a marriage is always a tragedy that threatens the development of children. when a child becomes the hostage of a quarrel between two quarreling husbands who were supposed to be his loving parents, it is a loss for all parties. especially when the voices of children were not heard, which country and which parents they want to live with. the heartbreaking cases of children abducted by their own parents to other member states have faced the inability of european judicial mechanisms to stop this madness. i trust that this parliament will continue the trend set and will unconditionally respect the rights of children in any situation and at any stage of development. and by that word, i also mean those babies who are still in the womb and have not yet been born. these rights must also be respected and protected.
madam president, it is right to seek to improve european legislation on crossborder matrimonial and parental disputes. the commission proposal respects the competence of the member states. it allows them to refuse to recognise and enforce decisions which are not in accordance with the public policy of most member states. however, i consider the four amendments which restrict these powers to be unacceptable. two of them require that a member state must also recognise marriages which are not recognised by its legislation. and two more could make states automatically have to recognize even private divorces handed down by, say, sharia courts in muslim countries. i would like to thank my colleague, mr zwiefko, and i am aware that his primary concern was the protection of children, but if the motion were to pass in this form, i would not be able to support it.
mr president, i took part in the same debate as today in this parliament 13 years ago. my colleagues, nothing has changed. according to the report on progress in combating trafficking in human beings, the majority of registered victims of trafficking come from romania, bulgaria, hungary and poland. or, to put it another way, of the five european countries whose citizens are most likely to fall prey to traffickers, as many as four are among the so-called new member states. human trafficking thrives where there is great poverty and little opportunity. as long as there are deep economic differences between countries and regions in the european union, there will be two europe. when we call for unity today, we are reminded that real unity does not come from the breaking down of border fences. it is born of solidarity and respect for the dignity of every human being and of the common struggle against extreme poverty, regardless of borders.
for the ecr group. mr president, the official website of the european year of cultural heritage states that our european cultural heritage, which we want to protect and develop unquestionably, has four aspects. tangible as memories, intangible as language, customs, natural as well as digital. commissioner avramopoulos, you have named here who all is taking part in this commemoration of cultural heritage. you mentioned four thousand players. and my question is: have you also addressed the christian churches that built europe? europe is famous for its cathedrals and strasbourg has one huge cathedral and is an architectural marvel. ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, let me say that neither of these cathedrals was built for itself. the intention is that the building should represent reverence for god. culture is based, or stands, on values. christianity, or faith in god, is clearly the spiritual heritage of europe. i feel like this year's heritage year is missing that. mr zdrojewski said that it was only at this late hour that this plenary session was devoted to culture, but i would add that we are not even remotely mentioning the respect for god and the elevation of the soul. but christianity was the engine of culture and science and the social sphere. and i think we should be encouraged to claim this year with pride the cultural heritage of christianity. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. thank you for your question, madam. i think there's a really huge field of activity that christian churches can introduce. first of all, to remember history. we don't have church buildings here just to pay for them, to treat them, to keep them open. so that a lot of people who've never seen the inside of a church can get in and see it. for example, a well-known event in the czech republic and slovakia is the so-called night of churches, when churches are open. there are parish workers there, and they can show you all the things people can learn. so i think the church has something to open up and we should do it and be able to invite them to do it. thank you. thank you.
for the ecr group. madam president, the current problem of regulated professions is closely linked to the problem of protectionism and the disruption of the single labour market, which we have been discussing a lot in our committee in recent months. on the one hand, we have the right of the member states to regulate those professions where they consider that the public interest requires it. on the other hand, we have the right of workers to pursue their profession in any member state. i therefore consider it crucial that national regulation of professions always complies with the principles of non-discrimination and proportionality. and that the member state clearly defines the public interest pursued by the regulation. i am glad to see that these principles are also repeatedly emphasised in the report. as is clear from the commission communication to which the report responds, the member states also impose regulatory conditions where the public interest is not sought in vain. however, we could easily identify a protectionist interest in protecting one's own regulated market from competition. i would therefore also like to call on the commission, as guardian of the treaties, to actively enforce compliance by the member states with the principle of non-discrimination and proportionality. the basic rules laid down in the european union's treaties are generally good, but the problem is that they are not being respected, partly because the commission does not enforce them sufficiently on the member states. as my colleague mr schwab said, this will require infrastructure. in conclusion, let me thank mr. dante and especially mr. schwab for their cooperation.
the question asked by the blue card. thank you very much. mr. mascara, i can certainly agree with you on a number of things. these are the things that are up for discussion, and i'm a little sorry that you want to dwell on this, because i felt that there was a very broad consensus here. and maybe there's a lot of things we could discuss. and my question is, why haven't you been to any, or any, negotiations where we could have discussed this in peace? (interrupted by the president and continued in english)
mr president, in the debate on this regulation yesterday i expressed my concern that some of the proposals contained in this report would restrict the competence of the member states in matters of marriage and family law. after the explanation of the rapporteur, mr zwiefke, some of my concerns were dispelled, but one remained. amendments nos 19 and 49 seek to ensure that the court cannot refuse to recognise the decision of another member state in a matrimonial matter. since an authentic instrument is also considered to be a decision, the adoption of these amendments would oblige the member states to recognise marriage certificates issued in another member state, even if their own legal system contains a different definition of marriage. states must retain the power to determine what kind of union they consider to be marriage. that's why i didn't support the motion.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report because the youth employment initiative is also producing positive results and this programme must be continued. however, it is important that we monitor the use of funds for this programme, highlight its shortcomings and propose improvements. this report is trying to do just that. it points to a number of shortcomings, ranging from the unwillingness of member states to draw funds, to the lack of a methodology for identifying the programme's target groups, to the tendency to replace own funding for measures to support young unemployed people with european resources. the court of auditors' report shows that we still have major reservations in the implementation of this initiative, in the implementation of this programme.
mr president, i welcome this report, which evaluates the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. the free movement of professionals is only good for europe and for slovakia. it is therefore important that there are rules to facilitate this movement. this also applies to regulated professions. of course, from slovakia's point of view, this also means creating the conditions for experts to come to us, not leave us. this evaluation report to parliament finds that member states still have shortcomings in their adequacy decisions. some have even failed to comply with the obligation to notify the professions they regulate to the european database. the report also points out that further measures need to be taken to improve the comparability of regulated professions across countries. i supported this report.
rapporteur of the committee on regional development, requested for an opinion. madam president, the quality of the environment is one of the most important factors for all citizens of the european union. therefore, investments in clean energy are also investments in environmental quality. i am speaking on behalf of the regi committee, and i would therefore like to point out that the european investment and structural funds offer significant opportunities for innovation in the energy sector and for bringing it to market. but at the same time, they're not a panacea. we therefore welcome the commission's intention to introduce targeted financial instruments in order to achieve a proper balance between grants and other financial instruments. public-private partnerships and joint research, development and innovation (rdi) undertakings could stimulate private sector investment in clean energy. the key role of regions, cities and municipalities must not be forgotten, as they are the co-decision-makers and bear the responsibility for the transition to other energy sources. they are eligible applicants for funding from european funds and are a source of information for citizens on the objectives and opportunities of engaging in the transition to clean energy sources.
in writing. on tuesday (6 february 2018), a discussion took place with the croatian prime minister andrej plenkovic. it discussed the future of the european union, starting with the challenges it faces on several fronts, such as the economy, security and terrorism, education and culture, migration and the accession of the balkan countries. the croatian prime minister was particularly concerned by the problem of growing regional populism. he called for avoiding often demagogic tendencies by discussing the informative nature of eu documentation. he also noted that strong efforts to integrate the western balkans into the eu were continuing. the european parliament, which supports this process with gradual harmonisation steps, points out, however, the shortcomings that the balkan countries will have to face in the near future in terms of strengthening the rule of law, fundamental rights or the fight against corruption.
mr president, i resolutely welcome the new enlargement strategy for the western balkans. we need a credible strategy which gives a clear enlargement perspective to the region and equally to us. it is needless to mention that it is in our strategic interest to integrate the countries of the western balkans into the union. we all know it will not be an easy task. it will require efforts both from the region and from ourselves. we need to get ready for the enlargement in the same way that the countries of the region need to be ready to join the union. it will require constant work and engagement on many levels, especially on the functioning of democratic institutions, the rule of law, civil liberties and freedom of the media, just to mention a few. we also need to be clear about the resolution of bilateral issues. the eu should proactively work on their solution and find the mechanisms which would allow to solve them before they accede to the union. i welcome this strategy; however i would also like to see a joint approach of the european institutions. the european parliament has been supportive to the enlargement process, and stepped up its efforts to solve political crises in the countries of the region. i am convinced that we are ready to assist and actively and effectively help the commission in many initiatives aimed at facilitating democratic political processes in the region. therefore, i would like to see in the future more thinking on our joint cooperation.
mr president, the ongoing transition of power in zimbabwe creates a new window of opportunity. the eu must be flexible and ready to deepen relations with harare and provide economic and political support for positive change. but we must also set clear conditions. most important of all is the return of the rule of law and political freedoms and the re-establishment of civilian rule over the military. it must also include a clear path to inclusive and fair elections in 2018, which could also be observed by the european parliament. moreover, the eu could – and should – be an important partner in the government’s effort to restore growth and create new jobs for zimbabweans. the eu has an important role to play in zimbabwe’s future, if member states pursue a common position. we have to show a brighter perspective for zimbabwe than other players, especially china. we possess potentially strong tools and leverage when it comes to supporting zimbabwe’s transition. let’s make sure we use our leverage wisely.
mr president, the november 2017 events will go down in the history books as the days when the world’s attention was turned to president mugabe and his long overdue resignation. i have been following mr mugabe’s political career from the beginning with great interest and i was deeply disappointed by his demise from a progressive leader to an authoritarian dictator in the last four decades. the world also watched the peaceful voices of many zimbabweans, who clearly stated that their country deserves better. they want their country to get out of diplomatic isolation, they want an economic overhaul of their devastated and crippled economy, and they want functioning democratic institutions. and now, a historical opportunity for zimbabwe is on the horizon. there is tangible hope on the streets of harare. it is now more important than ever to stand by zimbabwe in the upcoming difficult transition months and to make sure that president emmerson mnangagwa keeps his promise to hold free, fair and democratic elections without delay. the elections are crucial in this phase of political development in the country. if conditions are favourable, and if it is acceptable for zimbabwe, i think it would make sense to send an observation mission to these presidential elections.
madam president, it is with great concern that we need to repeatedly appeal to our principles and stand firmly behind them in the eu’s evolving relationship with turkey. the rule of law and respect for fundamental freedoms have to be the main axes of our bilateral relations. we have just confirmed this in the previous debate on eu enlargement strategy with the same messages. turkey is our partner and an ally in security—related matters, but we find ourselves reaching the limits of our partnership with turkey over and over again. i believe that there is still some room for discussion to take place on the parliamentary level with mps from the turkish parliament via the joint parliamentary committee, which should meet tomorrow. i hope this could be a productive meeting in this period of partnership. in the plethora of the wider crackdown on fundamental freedoms in turkey, i would like to concentrate on the failure to implement the rulings of the constitutional court. this is a straightforward attack on the functioning of the judiciary in turkey. in this respect, i would like to ask the high representative or commissioner hahn to indicate in which strategic direction our bilateral relations will evolve with regard to the events since the beginning of this year. the human suffering of the people in syria is beyond any possible words. further assaults by a nato member state are just unacceptable. beyond the reprehensible damage to the most vulnerable population still left in northern syria, this action directly endangers the possibility of successful talks in geneva.
madam president, since 20 january we have received cries for help from the kurdish christians in afrin – they have begged for an immediate end to the turkish attacks. they clearly know that jihadi extremists, including al-qa’ida, are part of the turkish attempt to invade afrin. yes, i say ‘al-qa’ida’: i already have a whole document demonstrating the cooperation between turkey and al-qa’ida in the afrin operation. turkey has been caught: it is not hunting terrorists; it is supporting terrorists in order to take afrin. two questions for my fellow colleagues. shall we allow turkey to create another influx of refugees into europe? shall we allow a nato member state to cooperate with a terrorist organisation? i challenge ms mogherini to show leadership in this situation and condemn this invasion without any reservation. finally, i call on ms mogherini to recognise – now – that the federation of northern syria should be part of the peace talks. their syrian democratic forces liberated one third of syria from isis and cannot be ignored as a partner.
mr president, when a country joins the european union, the number of members automatically increases. if a country leaves the european union, it will show that public spending is going in one direction only. and that's up the road. it's because most politicians like to spend other people's money. and since these politicians are the majority, they regularly approve the biggest stupidities. after brexit, the eu budget will be €9 billion short. it is therefore logical and right that the number of members should be reduced by 73. these are the ones who represent great britain today. as far as the european joint candidates are concerned, it is not possible to represent the interests of the citizens of portugal and finland at the same time. just as it is not possible to have one monetary policy for greece and one for germany.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have a saying in our country that we are cutting up a bear that is still running around in the mountains. i am very sorry if it comes to the uk actually leaving the european union, and i will be sorry for all my colleagues, including those who have not always been positive about common european issues. i am equally pleased that one of the 27 posts will be given to the slovak republic. we had 13 members, we'll have 14. although i personally don't see much progress in whether the country has one more or one less mp. it is more about the quality and willingness of members to discuss and tackle the problems we have together in the european union. let me briefly comment on the transnational or common european candidate. ladies and gentlemen, in an eu where we are not prepared to accept romania, bulgaria and croatia as full members if we are not able to admit them to the common schengen area, in a european union where employees in the same companies in other countries earn even a third less, it is completely useless and virtual to talk about a common candidate for the european parliament.
in writing. after the uk leaves the eu, the ep will have 73 fewer meps. discussions on whether to reallocate all these vacant seats or to leave them vacant have been ongoing on ep grounds since brexit. among my colleagues, meps, there were those who wanted to redistribute them all, but there were also those who shared my view that we should not give anything, that we should invest the money saved in development projects for young people or for the protection of the external borders or for the support of less developed regions. consequently, as new countries joined the eu, vacancies would be gradually allocated to them. the eu is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. i am glad that slovakia will gain one more mandate with such a proposal, which will give us fourteen meps after 2019. i have a very different view on the creation of a transnational electoral list, because i consider it unrealistic for anyone to campaign before the european elections throughout the eu and then not be able to answer to their constituents for their work. a member must know who his constituents are, must be in touch with them and must be able to communicate with them during the election period.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – mr president, my congratulations to ms gardiazabal for finalising this report. it is becoming increasingly important to steer our external investments and activities, especially when it comes to our neighbourhood. in this respect, external lending could be a powerful instrument to achieve our policy objectives. however, it needs strategic focus and clear direction. i hope that the european investment bank will be a strong partner in executing our policy objectives. the eu is not immune to instability behind our borders. mounting crises mixed with worsening socio-economic situations in many countries in our neighbourhood exposed us to unprecedented waves of migration. however, we have been able to react and mobilise resources in order to respond to root cases of migration. i’m glad that the renewed lending mandate will contribute to stepping up our investment activities to strengthen resilience, tackle root cases of migration and promote new forms of private sector participation, especially in neighbourhood countries.
in writing. there's been a long debate about how to solve the migration crisis and why it's happening. one of the most commonly cited approaches is to address the so-called root causes, that is, the specific reasons that lead refugees to leave their home countries. the european union has prepared, as part of the new external european investment package, a plan to gradually improve the situation in countries where people are choosing to leave the eu because of their poor socio-economic situation. supporting infrastructure and social policy development in the developing countries on the periphery of the european union is also an investment in our security and economic development. a large number of forecasts indicate that developing countries will experience strong economic growth in the years ahead. finally, it should be noted that our efforts to build a more stable and sustainable system in the world are more important today than at any time in history. the level of globalisation is at record levels and the success and security of regions is directly linked to the stability of the rest of the world and, in particular, of neighbouring countries.
in writing. economic and social efforts in the union should be directed towards a common objective of improving the quality of life for all citizens. a significant component of this quality is health, which is also negatively affected by changes in the time of year in the form of summer and winter time. analyses show that the economic benefits, including energy savings, of the time-shift are negligible. of course, the positive aspects of the current situation are the benefits of the longer daylight in summer and the possibilities for leisure activities during spring and summer. regardless of these benefits, health promotion should be a priority. the human body has its own natural biorhythms that are adversely affected by such changes. biorhythm disturbances impair human health and at the same time increase the financial costs of protecting and correcting it. three researchers were awarded the nobel prize in 2017 for important discoveries in the field of chronobiology research. recent research has shown that the effect on human biorhythms may be more severe than previously thought. over 20 percent of people have health problems as time goes on. even those who do not experience these problems should take this into account.
mr president, the creation of a guarantee fund for external action is part of the european external investment plan. in addition to the european fund for strategic investments and the support for investment projects outside the union, the guarantee fund is the third pillar of this external investment plan. in total, up to €44 billion of investment in africa and the eu's neighbourhood should be mobilised under the facility. as regards the guarantee fund, its purpose is to act as a budget guarantee for third countries in order to prevent insolvency. i agree that the commission should have a guarantee fund in its report. i have confidence in the human resources and expertise of the staff. at the same time, this transfer from the european investment bank saves fees that would otherwise have been paid to it. on the other hand, i believe that the commission must be open to scrutiny by the european parliament and the court of auditors. i trust that the commission will manage the guarantee fund in accordance with the principles of good governance.
mr president, recent years have been marked by a number of climate catastrophes and armed conflicts which have mobilized millions of people. the refugee and migration crisis has its roots outside the european union, so it is crucial that we address its causes on the ground. for this reason, i support the establishment of investment projects outside the union under the external investment plan. through the european investment bank, we invest in projects that promote sustainable development and inclusive economic growth. projects financed by the external investment plan must focus on a long-term development agenda, which means addressing the root causes of migration. the local private sector needs to be included. it's local businesses, local people in hard-hit countries in africa, the middle east, asia, who have to learn to fight poverty, hunger and conflict. and to that end, i am also setting up an external investment plan that should be a catalyst for sustainable growth and job creation.
mr president, the european investment bank plays a positive role in alleviating the public investment gap. i want to say that in the social sector, it lends on average 1 billion a year for social housing projects, 1.5 billion for health infrastructure and 2.4 billion for education infrastructure projects. conversely, as a public financial institution that finances projects aimed at implementing eu policies and priorities, the eib should also contribute to economic, social and territorial cohesion, including in less developed regions. the eib's financial activity report shows, however, that up to 54,11% of all loans granted in 2016 were received by the five economically strongest member states. i therefore join the call for the eib and the commission to examine the causes of this situation and to inform the ep of them, while at the same time adopting measures for a wider territorial distribution of funds in order to reduce regional disparities.
my friends, mr commissioner, this text on alcoholic beverages, spirits, their use, their names and also on the protection of geographical names is very technical, but i am glad that we have all arrived at a constructive result. there is also a significant change that the legal basis for the current consultation will be changed in the future. this legislative text has a significant impact on agriculture also because the ethyl alcohol used for the production of spirit drinks must be of agricultural origin. it's a major export commodity. the european union exports ten billion a year, it's such a flagship of the european union. quality alcohol is exported abroad, including slovak pine and plum alcohols, and i believe that these geographical names, which we also have in slovakia, as agreed in this text, will continue to be preserved and respected in the new text. i am also very pleased that the maximum sugar content has been set for the production of spirit drinks, and that is just right.
for the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank my colleague, frank engel, for the preparation of this report. however, i have some reservations about this report, and they relate to three areas: institutional, migration and gender issues. first, if a member state systematically violates fundamental rights and undermines the rule of law, it is incumbent on the commission to refer the matter to the european court of justice. the introduction of some new european administrative-political mechanism will not solve anything. secondly, the issue of migration and asylum is a very serious and complex issue. all the more reason to always make a clear distinction between refugees and illegal immigrants. otherwise, we will end up questioning the right of the member states to decide who, and under what circumstances and conditions, can enter and reside on their own territory. finally, there is a group of proposals on sexuality, gender, marriage and reproductive health. i have serious reservations about several paragraphs, but i will mention only one: it is a call for political influence on medical practices and standards. it is unacceptable to me as a doctor. the commission, governments and members of parliament simply do not have the right to dictate to medical science what is and is not considered a disease.
for the ecr group. mr president, i too, after reading this report, of course, see a lot of work by a colleague, and yet i have the impression that europe is a continent of fear, ruled by phobias. it is also a good example of the kind of discrimination that is common in the eu. fear of all classes, races and group identities. the homophobic group is growing disproportionately with those who have a different view of how people should live together, between men and women. i'm seeing a phenomenon where people are becoming afraid to speak their minds publicly about the introduction of new sociological and value frameworks. so where's the right to disagree gone? this is our fundamental right to disagree, and disagreement as a difference of opinion must be respected. why are those who hold a different view immediately labeled as fanatics, populists, fundamentalists, bigots? europe should not be afraid of diversity, especially of opinion. i regard the repeated calls in this report for member states to ratify the controversial istanbul convention as inappropriate and a further breach of the principle of subsidiarity. one third of the states of the istanbul convention ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. the report on the situation of fundamental rights is an opportunity to assess each year how the eu and its member states are performing in this important area. the topics listed may be data collected in a given year, experiences, current issues, but this parliament's progress report should also adhere to a certain permanent examination framework. the millennium report has taken a different direction and focused on issues that are difficult for me to identify with. however, it lacks or at least marginally addresses the rights and situation of indigenous minorities, who represent 10% of the eu population. it is therefore important that parliament adopted a resolution a month earlier, on 7 february, entitled 'protecting minorities and combating discrimination against them in the eu member states', which deals specifically with indigenous minorities and the elimination of discrimination against them in the eu. the latter opens a new chapter in the protection of indigenous minorities and can serve as a guide for the future work of the competent european parliament committees and the other eu institutions.
madam president, the premeditated murder of a journalist and his partner in my country fills me with sadness, shame and anger. i'm sad because two young lives were extinguished. i am ashamed because the public revelations of this journalist have shown that people suspected of being connected to international crime have been living and doing business in slovakia for years. they have contacts in the government office, the prosecutor's office and state offices, they even draw on euro funds. and i'm angry that none of those whose job it is to fight the mafia and corruption feel responsible for this state of affairs. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask you today to keep an eye on the situation in slovakia. if you feel it is beyond our power to investigate the murder of jan kuciak and to deal with the revelations he has brought, please give us a helping hand.
madam president, allow me to express my sincere condolences to the victims of the murder of journalist jan kuciak and his fiancée in this chamber of the european parliament. as you know, there was a serious assassination attempt on a journalist in slovakia. this heinous act has shaken slovakia and i see that it has shaken the whole of europe and far abroad. it's about freedom of speech, which we all value and always need to fight for. no less serious suspicions are beginning to emerge. organized crime became a serious problem in several central european countries in the 1990s. and if it turns out that the murder of a 27-year-old journalist is indeed an international mafia, with possible links to high slovak government posts, the whole of europe should be alarmed. the possible mafia connection to the highest slovak government circles is a strong link even for a country that has been embroiled in serious corruption scandals for the last few years. i want to say from here to all concerned and especially to post-communist governments, we refuse to make the murder of an investigative journalist the new norm. we belong in a civilized world where organized crime has no place and where murderers must be caught and punished for their actions.
madam president, slovakia is shocked by the news of the premeditated murder of a young journalist and his fiancée. it's not just their families that are affected, it's the whole country. as a journalist, he has reported on corruption and tax evasion, which he has found to reach the highest levels of government. democracy in slovakia has been seriously undermined by this premeditated murder. journalist jan kuciak searched and found what many wanted to keep secret. he was seeking the truth for slovakia, not for himself. i therefore call on the security forces and the prosecutor's office to immediately investigate the case, uncover the criminals and punish the killers. and if the government should fall for this, i ask and i call on the european community to help this brave slovak finish his work. let's not let the citizens of slovakia lose faith in justice, order and truth.
madam president, something has happened in slovakia in recent days that has shocked the whole of europe. two young people investigative journalist ján kuciak and his girlfriend martina kušnírová were brutally executed in their own home. ján kuciak was a courageous journalist who was not afraid to expose organized crime, whose roots stretch back to socialist politicians. in a recent unfinished article, he even pointed to the connection between the italian mafia and the government-led party, the direction. it's not enough to condemn this heinous act. i propose, together with my czech colleague lujko niedermayer, that the cases of tax fraud on which the murdered ján kuciak worked be dealt with by a new committee against financial crimes and tax fraud. the best way to honor the memory of these two brave men is to help uncover the truth. we must always do everything to keep the decent people on top.
in writing the main task of the banking union, composed of a single supervisory mechanism and a single resolution mechanism, is to ensure a sound and secure banking sector in the european union. financial stability in the union affects the whole of economic and business life and has an impact on every actor. i support strengthening banking supervision so that the union can react in a timely manner and take the necessary measures flexibly in the event of a threat. i also consider it essential that a regulation on the european deposit insurance fund be adopted as soon as possible, which will strengthen financial stability and increase public confidence in the financial and banking sectors.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the efficiency of tax collection is an indicator of elementary justice. if a state fails to collect taxes according to the rules, something is fundamentally wrong, and if scandals like the panama papers or the paradise papers emerge, the situation is even more serious. the fight against tax evasion and fraud must be a self-evident priority in our common european market as it continues to integrate. i believe that tax subsidiarity is important and that the competence to decide on the level of taxes at national level should be preserved. at the same time, however, there is clearly a need for more to be done for cooperation between countries. the mandatory automatic exchange of information in cross-border matters is thus certainly the right step we need to take to improve transparency and access to information and thus to improve tax collection. this mandatory exchange of information will help in particular the member states themselves, which in many cases lose tax revenue. this is particularly the case in cross-border cases where national measures may not be fully effective. we also continue to see cases of companies being set up in other countries in an effort to conceal the identity of the real owners. i believe that mandatory information exchange is the right way to ensure that all information is available to tax authorities. i believe that the european parliament's actions will help to improve tax collection, fairer business and job creation. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to the question raised by raising the blue card no, mr president, i do not see it as you do and i am certainly not convinced that this should be the basis for any common taxation or new taxes. i am in favour of maintaining tax sovereignty, i am in favour of taxation being decided in national countries, but at the same time we need to take measures to improve tax collection. and i see mandatory information sharing as a good and effective way to improve tax collection.
in writing effective counter-terrorism and the prevention of related threats require targeted measures aimed at stopping the various forms of terrorist financing. the disconnection of terrorist networks from financial resources is crucial from a security enhancement perspective. the further development of cooperation between intelligence services of the individual member states of the european union is an indispensable part of these efforts. the aim is not to create new institutions or bodies at european level, but to strengthen coordination within existing information exchange systems. terrorism is a threat to the freedom of european countries and their citizens. the effective fight against organised groups, but also against individuals who threaten the security of citizens, is therefore a top priority. we must not allow the system of rights and guarantees that is an important part of the european integration project to continue to be jeopardised. the main goal of all extremists and radicals, without distinction, is to spread confusion, increase fear and chaos in society. any measures taken must therefore be comprehensive and rational, also because they always impose a certain burden on public budgets.
madam president, with the 2016 report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union, another document has come to the plenary that in many respects introduces gender identity practices that are contrary to the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. the report again abuses the theme of fundamental rights to put ideological pressure on certain member states, on public opinion and to promote absurd social engineering. i refer to the problematic article 70 which calls on the member states to ratify the istanbul convention. by ratifying, the parties, including slovakia, would, under article 6, make a definitive commitment to: include a gender perspective in the implementation and impact assessment of the provisions of this convention end of quote. the fight against violence against women is a clear duty, of course, but it can also be done effectively in other ways than by sacrificing other fundamental values, by accepting legal formulations that are incompatible with the fundamental values and, above all, with the legal system of some member states, to which we are entitled as sovereign and democratic states under eu law.
for the ecr group madam president, my view is that the european union and europe as a whole is facing a demographic winter. in every country of the european union, there is a lack of children who are our future. no children, because people often selfishly choose a life of comfort and carefree living, or those children have been killed before they are born in the name of sexual and reproductive privilege. abortion is putting europe's future at risk. nor does this document mention the need to support families with children. the future development of our society will be ensured by the birth of children. but it is often the practice in european union legislation that this report deals with the question of women being able to enter the workforce as soon as possible, regardless of what their family wants or needs. if a woman wants to stay at home and take care of our future, which means the next generation of children, she faces prejudice. women caring for children or other family members are often discriminated against and face poverty. if she remains in a blessed state and is without the support of a husband or a partner, abortion is a terrible way out. i think that this philosophy is not working in europe, it is causing us big problems, and it has to be said: europe is dying. with this report, i believe, we want to export the culture of death to third countries through trade agreements. and so countries that have enough children today will face similar problems in a few years as we do in europe. this is modern colonization, and the third world countries should not engage in this because it will not bring them economic development.
madam president, i will not repeat my doubts about the specific provisions of the istanbul convention. suffice it to say, i share them with most of the citizens i represent here. the fight against violence against women, the assistance to victims of violence and education as part of violence prevention are among the exclusive competences of the member states. to date, only 17 of them have ratified the istanbul convention. the istanbul convention is not synonymous with combating violence against women and girls. it's just one particular policy tool that has strengths and weaknesses. the european treaties give each member state the right to assess the merits and demerits of this convention and to decide for itself. this parliament and the commission should respect that.
in writing any violence must be condemned and severely punished. however, this does not require the adoption of controversial international agreements which show elements of interference in the internal affairs of the member states. gender issues have no place in such a document and each country has to solve them on its own.
madam president, as a citizen of the slovak republic, i want to comment on the situation in slovakia. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that citizens of the slovak republic today have more confidence in the institutions of the european union than in the authorities of the slovak republic. it is a serious crisis of confidence, especially in the government of the slovak republic. but beware: after we sent a delegation of meps to slovakia, some slovak citizens think that by this step we have also taken on joint responsibility for the future development of the country. the events are rooted in deep corruption, including corruption related to european union funds. i would like to draw attention to this point and ask those responsible for the european commission and olaf to deal with this issue sufficiently intensively. of course, the murder of a journalist must be investigated under international supervision, and as soon as possible.
madam president, on the occasion of 8 march, we are accustomed to highlighting the abilities of women, their professional and sporting achievements, and to call for the removal of the obstacles that prevent women from realizing their potential and talents. but while women have an irreplaceable role as mothers, while the future of europe and the world depends on them in the most fundamental sense of the word, to mention this fact is to expose oneself to accusations of spreading stereotypes. in 2010, a report by the council of europe's equal opportunities committee even called the portrayal of women in the media as mothers as stereotypical as the portrayal of them as passive and inferior beings or sexual objects. motherhood is not a stereotype, but a privilege, a responsibility, and a performance all at once. the whole world should be proud to remember this on international women's day.
in writing the ep has endorsed the basic pillars for further cooperation with the united kingdom after its withdrawal from the union. partnership and cooperation in trade and economic relations, foreign policy, security and development cooperation, internal security and thematic cooperation, in particular in areas of common interest, must be the guiding principles of each area covered by the treaty. the future relationship shall be based on mutual respect, reciprocity and advantage, shall take into account existing commitments and shall take into account to the greatest extent possible the interests of the citizens of all the parties.
mr president, as we speak around 500 000 people are surrounded in afrin by turkish—backed jihadists who openly threaten the people of afrin to convert to their extremism or be beheaded. when will we understand that turkey is indeed carrying out a jihad with the goal of ethnic cleansing and genocide? turkey has said so itself. we cannot continue to ignore these facts. we have to understand that the goal of turkey is to expand its borders and wipe out the people of northern syria and iraq. turkey threatened this week to invade iraq. we have to draw the conclusion that we cannot continue with turkey as we did. if we continue with turkey the same way, we will have no argument left to judge anyone else based on human rights issues. we need to downsize our relations with turkey and upgrade our relations with the federation of northern syria and the kurdistan regional government and reassess our relations with the kurds in turkey. if we do not, we would be allowing turkey to kill kurds anywhere it wants. we cannot allow that.
mr president, in the past few years the relations between the eu and five central asian partners have intensified. this is documented not only by the frequency of high-level meetings, but also by the amount of upgraded agreements that this house has passed. i think it is an encouraging development, notably in regard to the new eu central asia strategy anticipated next year. the eu should continue in this trend of active engagement with the region. it has a unique balancing position in central asia, and is perceived as a positive force. our bilateral relations should focus on common security challenges, supporting the resilience of partners, enhancing our economic relations and backing regional cooperation. particular attention should be dedicated to improving the rule of law and respect for fundamental freedoms in five countries. the eu should be clear of the areas where improvement is needed and should stand ready to assist.
for the ppe group mr president, two weeks ago we were all stunned by the horror of the act that took place in slovakia. two young people, investigative journalist jan kuciak and his girlfriend martina kušnírová, were brutally executed in their own home. if the murderers' goal was to instill fear and apathy in the people, then i can tell you from this place that they failed. citizens of the slovak republic, who were already getting used to the daily news about the million cases and the miraculous phrase "nothing happened", took to the streets in huge numbers. these protests were not carried out in the name of hatred and violence. they were and are for a decent slovakia. for slovakia, where contacts and acquaintances do not decide, where the international mafia does not rule, but where everyone has equal opportunities and where honest work leads to a decent life. for the slovakia that ján kuciak and martina kušnírová wanted to have. what can we, the members of the european parliament, do to make slovakia and europe more decent? i think a lot. first of all, we must continue where ján kuciak had to end at the hand of the murderer. we can expose the schemes and the ways in which european money gets into the hands of the mafia. we can improve the legislation to protect journalists and send a clear signal that we simply will not tolerate such practices. the name of jan kuciak must not be forgotten. that is why, on behalf of the european people's party, we propose that the european parliament's press centre be named after ján kuciak. let us honor his memory and bring the work of jan kuciak to an end.
for the ecr group mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the slovak national anthem sings the words 'our slovakia has been sleeping soundly, but the lightning bolts are waking it up'. and it is a great tragedy that the thunderbolts were the shots in the village of velika mecha that killed innocent people, jan kuciak and martina kušnírová. a journalist who covered anti-corruption investigations. they paid the ultimate price, with their lives. ján kuciak exposed corrupt political cases and mafia crimes. but i will tell you that we have other journalists: pavol rýpal and miroslav pejko fearlessly exposed various scandals and are still missing and there is no hope that they are still alive. the people were stunned by the indifference of the execution of jan kuciak and his fiancée. and slovakia really came to life. in many of our cities, slovaks and slovak women have come out to demonstrate, to light candles and express clear disagreement with the direction of our country. there are also concerts and artists canceling shows to show that this cannot continue. it's a disgrace to the government of robert fitz and his ministers, where our company has gotten to. slovakia is emerging from its lethargy, and until now the octopus of corruption has extended its tentacles to the highest levels of state administration. i firmly believe that this is coming to an end. dear colleagues of the monitoring committee, i thank you for the work you have done, because we needed this intervention. i am grateful that you have mentioned the specific problems that slovakia has to deal with. this is a time when slovak politicians, honest police officers and investigators, as well as our entire civil society, have a job to do, a great job, to set new paradigms of the administration of justice, the enforceability of the law, which our prime minister promised years ago when he took office, and so far it seems that he has not succeeded. furthermore, trust must be restored in the state that defends the freedom and security of citizens, as well as in journalists who fearlessly expose corruption. more thorough control of european money is needed, because it is the source of corruption in slovakia.
madam president, february 26, when we learned of the brutal murder of journalist ján kuciak and his girlfriend, was a black day not only for slovakia but also for the entire european union. two young people who wanted to live together were murdered. they planned to start a family and believed in the values of a common europe. this brutal act must be investigated so that we don't rob young people of the hope that we live in democratic countries where the law applies. i live in slovakia, where this heinous act took place. i can feel firsthand the atmosphere that this act created in the people. it's fear, uncertainty, perhaps even hopelessness that the perpetrators will not be revealed. i don't want to lose this hope and i firmly believe that this murder will be punished because our criminals are also helped by foreign experts. last year, we witnessed the murder of a journalist in malta. please, let's do our best together to prevent similar sad events from happening again. this time it was malta and slovakia, but it could have happened anywhere. journalists have an irreplaceable place in our society. the protection of journalists must be clearly declared, they must have such conditions created for their work that they are not intimidated, that they do not have to work and live under police protection. this sad event, however, raises many questions. the legitimate question is what have we done to ensure that organised crime has no place in the european union? what we have done to prevent the uncontrolled movement of terrorists in the european union. have we taken sufficient measures to establish effective mechanisms to control the use of the eu funds, with the possibility of criminal prosecution if fraud is detected? tax evasion and avoidance cost the eu €1 trillion a year. i repeat, one billion euros. these are the subjects that investigative journalists deal with. i therefore join the call sent to the commission by 17 journalistic organisations that senior eu officials should not waste time and put their words into action. the letter calls on the commission to take the lead and to require state officials and public figures to create an environment in which the essential role of journalism is respected. the first step is to make the european prosecutor's office function quickly, to set up a european investigation office, the european intelligence agency. and let's be honest, it also means eliminating tax havens within the european union and adopting european legislation to prevent tax evasion and fraud. we owe it to ján kuciak and his girlfriend, but also to the citizens of the eu. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
answering the question posed by raising the blue card i'm very happy to answer. i live in eastern slovakia and i guarantee you that there is no mafia in eastern slovakia. i invite members to look, if they wish, i have actually a picture of how individual farmers are doing, and i want to tell you that in addition to italian entrepreneurs there are germans, dutch and various others who may have known in advance how to get subsidies. a lot of our farmers didn't know about it yet, they weren't prepared, so i mean, they're just taking advantage of the way we set up subsidies in the european union. it is time to look at the cap and subsidies.
madam president, violence and fear must not rule our lives. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament is joining the media and political pressure to investigate the heinous murder of the young journalist kuciak and his girlfriend. in slovakia, people are rightly protesting in the streets because they are anxious for justice in many areas of life. our higher goal must therefore be that people can gain confidence in government institutions. so they don't just throw away the chance to seek justice. the european parliament's inquiry committee has made several key findings. it irritates me that, for example, ignorance of some european standards prevents slovakia from investigating criminal cases. but the biggest problem is that even where legislation is in line with eu standards, there is a huge gap in practical applications. and that's why there's a really strong distrust of institutions in slovakia, and that's why criminals are increasingly taking the liberty. yes, every murder is an abomination regardless of the person of the victim, and every crime left uninvestigated weakens faith in justice and further encourages the perpetrators. our resolution should demand, in addition to a thorough investigation of the case of journalist kuciak and his partner, clarification in the cases of the mysterious disappearance of our two long-lost investigative journalists pavlo rypal and miroslav peik.
madam president, i have repeatedly expressed my condolences for the death of a young journalist and his girlfriend. and i want to assure you that all the people in slovakia feel the same way. i say this not only as a politician, not only as a member of the european parliament, but also as a wife and a mother. my son is turning 30 this year, and i can only imagine how hard that must be for his parents. i also want to assure you that all the relevant authorities dealing with this brutal murder are taking all the necessary steps to bring this murder to justice. no one in slovakia is interested in this murder being investigated anymore. of course, our duty is to protect the rights and lives of journalists across the european union, and we politicians should have a proper relationship with journalists and we should have respect for each other. if this has not been the case in the past in slovakia, i want to express my conviction that this will be the case, and at the same time i want to ask all the competent authorities in the european union to also proceed with the extension of the powers of the european public prosecutor's office, particularly for various suspicions in the european union and in other countries such as slovakia. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer to the question raised by raising the blue card sofia, we have known each other for many years, we have been together for many years in the libe committee and i can assure you that really, as the president of the slovak republic said, all authorities, or all those who participate in the investigation of the murder of mr. kuciak, have an enormous interest in solving this murder. and as mrs gräßle said, i do not see the way forward in this parliament's plenary session of accusing individual members of the government or the government as a whole of perhaps participating in the murder. you can't be serious about that, either.
madam president, the heinous murder of jan kuciak and his fiancée, miss kušnírová, has left a deep mark on slovakia. i have to say that the government, which in the past has thrown at least ten cases of economic and political cases under the carpet, has declared these cases irrelevant, or that the deed did not happen, has lost the trust of the citizens. i have to say that the citizens in slovakia have taken to the streets because they no longer trust this government. one hundred thousand citizens in thirty cities in slovakia came out to demonstrate, to express their will to turn slovakia into a country of decent people. and i think that is necessary and it is possible only if there is a fundamental political change in slovakia and probably also the fall of the government and the call of elections. i also support the idea of europol and olaf intervening in this matter and investigating it together with the slovak authorities.
madam speaker, young people should not die, and certainly not like this. the slovak government is interested in the fact that the act is investigated and clarified as soon as possible. that's why an international investigation team is being deployed this week. although we don't know who did it, part of the opposition is using the murder for political ends. in an age of cyber attacks and fake news, such trends can be exploited to subvert democracy anywhere in europe. there were also some false reports today, like that a murdered journalist had asked for protection and hadn't been given it. he didn't ask. on the contrary, a few days before his death, he said that he did not believe that in slovakia someone could attack a journalist. dear colleagues, colleagues, in these difficult times, we rely on your support, solidarity and solidarity.
madam president, the situation in slovakia is tense. the political crisis that followed the murder of journalist ján kuciak and his partner shows the dark side of democracy. this tragedy has shown that the current slovak government is unable to solve the problems that traumatize slovak society. unfortunately, these are the same problems that the young murdered journalist pointed out. corruption, cronyism, and even suspicions of government power being tied to organized crime. the slovak public is rightly concerned and outraged. but also determined to show her civic stance in this critical situation. whatever the tone of this debate, the truth is that the government of robert fico has so far failed to restore and gain the trust of neither the slovak nor the european public, even in the questions of justice and the independence of the investigation of this unprecedented premeditated murder. the european parliament must respond clearly at this point. the murder of a journalist is an attack on freedom of speech and the foundations of democracy not only in slovakia but in the entire union. in this situation, we should stand together, say no and contribute to ensuring that such heinous acts can never be repeated.
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking all the colleagues who have worked together to create the new europass framework. i am pleased that after more than ten years of existence, the europass platform will be modernised and made more accessible to its users. the revision that europass has now undergone was necessary to bring it closer to today's user habits and to take it one step further. despite the fact that over 100 million cvs have been generated through the europass website over the last decade, i am convinced that europass needs more visibility. it is still unknown to many, and i would therefore like to see it become more widely used at national level. schools, universities and youth organisations in particular can contribute to making it more usable. the creation of a new europass platform reflecting current technological innovations will make it easier for users to access information that will be useful for their career growth, choice of educational path or recruitment process. the europass platform will be based on online tools with user-friendly content and functionalities, while providing a high level of protection of personal data. there will be many new ways for users to use europass, and i believe that it will continue to be beneficial for all.
mr. chairman, thank my colleague julie ward, she'll be speaking for our group. i switched the line with her because in five minutes i'm online on slovak tv, so thank you very much, and now my speaking time. the creative europe programme is a programme for everyone. it's for those who actively participate in it and ask for support in the areas of film industry, culture, book translation, and others, but it's also for those who are consumers of the culture thus supported. with today's legislative resolution, we are supporting the european union youth orchestra, which is made up of young musicians selected in their member states. the auditions for this orchestra are very demanding, it's not easy to get in, which speaks to the high quality of this orchestra. i am convinced that the performances of young musicians at various festivals and tours within the eu, including at international level, will enrich the cultural experience for every listener and will also enrich europe's cultural heritage. the creative europe programme is programmed and financially secured until 2020 and i firmly believe that it will be in the new multiannual financial framework.
in writing the fact that the fight against climate change has been intensified in recent years is now beyond doubt. but the question, to which there are different answers, is this: is it enough? the paris agreement is the most comprehensive agreement to protect the environment and combat climate change in history. this document is not binding in itself. it needs to be ratified and implemented through concrete solutions. the alternative infrastructure action plan is a concrete case of implementation of the paris agreement. it is also part of the european strategy for decarbonisation. in 2017, in the context of the second mobility package, the commission published a communication which clearly stated that a robust alternative fuels infrastructure is a key component of the decarbonisation strategy and is insufficient in its current form. this means that unless large-scale planning and construction of this infrastructure begins, the transition to decarbonised transport will be slowed down. it is now necessary to reform this action plan and ensure that the necessary infrastructure is built.
in writing. – president macron has expressed his opinion that brexit should result in enhanced cooperation between the member states. i fully agree with that. particularly suitable are areas which bring benefit to our citizens such as digitalisation, energy sector or completion of internal market. furthermore, we must focus our attention on stabilizing the euro currency by creating a functional bank union. on the other hand, i cannot accept the idea of harmonizing tax and social rules. the state budgets could be exposed to enormous pressure and the functioning of the small and medium-sized enterprises could be placed in jeopardy. unification of the tax rates could considerably weaken the competitiveness of certain member states.
mr president, migration is a big link in global governance. the two un agreements rightly focus on easing the human suffering and safeguarding the rights of millions of refugees and migrants, but migration has now become a geopolitical challenge too. governments cynically use refugees as a strategic bargaining chip, for example turkey. but some countries of origin in africa are doing the same. in the destination countries, the issue is abused by extremist forces. it has driven a wedge into the heart of european politics. the use of migration as a geopolitical weapon is an extremely dangerous phenomenon and will cause more instability unless there is a strong multilateral regime to govern migration flows. the european union must be at the forefront of this effort.
madam president, just last week i hosted a conference in the european parliament on the future of democracy in syria. yes, there is such a thing! the speakers and participants were not academics, nor were they analysts or politicians per se. these were the brave men and women of syria who rejected the idea of becoming a victim of a violent state and started to defend their families and rebuild their homeland. i am speaking of the democratic federation of northern syria, so far the most successful story of a democratic model for syria. this is a corporation of christians, kurds, arabs and yazidis based on european values of religious equality, gender equality and human dignity. these people are operating on 30% of syria’s territory and i think we need to take them very seriously. i ask high representative mrs mogherini, as i always do when she is in the chamber, to consider the northern federation, start a dialogue and acknowledge their existence. these are major actors in a project that is hardly recognised by europe. the eu has a unique opportunity to make a difference. please invite them to a brussels conference.
madam president, our relations with russia have been difficult. up until now, only little progress has been made to improve affairs. unfortunately, the atmosphere in russia has not changed after the last elections, and it has brought even more tensions to the international scene. protracted conflict in ukraine, russia’s military backing of the assad regime in syria, and its constant interference in eu internal politics make it difficult to improve our relations. i support the five principles underlining our relations with russia. at the same time, our strategy and these principles could work only if we stand together: only if the whole eu is united in its actions, upholding the values and principles we share. this means standing firmly behind the implementation of the minsk agreement, being united in our approach to eastern partners, reinforcing our joint resilience and last, but not least, re-engaging with civil society and youth in russia. eu security is threatened on a daily basis from dependence on russia’s energy, the destablising effects of propaganda, cyber-attacks and, lately, even suspicion of the use of nerve gas. my appeal is simple: in these extremely insecure times, we can guarantee the security and safety of our citizens only when we act together.
madam president, i would first like to pass on my congratulations to ms schaake for the good report. external financial instruments are like the muscles of our external policy: they can lift up the positive changes in third countries. to flex the muscles, however, we need a solid backbone – in other words, clear political guidance, direction and strategic vision. once these are put together, we can talk about the ambition to become a global player. although the current instruments seem to be fit for purpose, they lack strategic overreaching vision. in many cases, we experience a lack of flexibility, for example the crisis in ukraine, the migration crisis or the situation in syria, libya or egypt. in the new multiannual financial framework (mff), therefore, we need instruments fully in line with the vision and policy priorities. they need to be flexible enough and work in synergy with each other. reform of the current instruments is required in order to provide more accountability, transparency and oversight. as the rapporteur to the neighbourhood instrument, i was often disappointed at the limited insight and role that parliament had a chance to play after adoption of the instruments. we need more scrutiny, but also general political guidance coming from the european parliament. the governance of the instrument should be more efficient and responsive to the needs of political priorities.
mr president respect for privacy is one of the greatest achievements of developed societies, and the protection of personal data is one of our most fundamental rights. to ensure this, it is essential to put in place appropriate systems and, above all, to supervise them. even if we can only see the tip of the iceberg, the facebook and cambridge analytica scandals have shown that we cannot rely completely on the voluntary privacy policies of even the most reputable service providers. for example, in slovakia, 14,000 users' data was manipulated. the failure to protect data in that case hurt society at its most vulnerable point, by influencing elections. it is no use saying, as we did in washington last year, in congress and in the white house, that the european privacy shield is the technological minimum that we should be demanding globally from those who have vast amounts of personal data. and as we can see in the outrageous case of cambridge analytica, the exploitation of data knows no bounds, and while it's true that there will always be places in the world where data carriers are tolerated, as long as the service providers, the system owners, the service providers, or the development companies, are held responsible for abuses, the risk of these abuses will only increase. as in many cases, prevention is the key, and the european privacy shield can be the key tool.
for the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank the rapporteur, mr dalton, for his enormous work, but also the other colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs and the european commission, which has always been open, always ready to communicate and above all to find the common solutions we really need. i'm glad that we really did find these solutions first in our committee and then together in the trilogy. i would like to emphasize three things in particular. first, it is clear that we desperately need new legislation to approve new vehicles. secondly, it is really clear that we need the same rules in our common european area and dieselgate cannot happen again. our citizens cannot be deceived. thirdly, it is clear that we need to do more to protect the environment, but also to think about the development of new technologies and jobs in the european union. we have been working on this final form of new legislation for over a year. and the result is a change in methodology, new competences, but also the interaction of the european level and the national states. full-scale testing is introduced, the commission's powers are strengthened and a uniform procedure and interpretation of the rules are ensured throughout the union. events in recent years have shown that this is indeed very, very necessary. i'm sure we don't need new institutions, but we do need rapid, fundamental change that works. we don't need new costs, but we need clear rules. and we do not need divided member states, but we need the same rules for our common market. the exit from the trialogue is a really good proposal and i believe it will be supported by everyone who cares about real change and protecting the interests of our citizens. (applause) thank you very much.
for the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let's just imagine if we could actually pass a law that effectively starts to prevent violence. it means that people will stop committing violence. so this would be a really great law that we could just pass and the violence would stop. but imagine if we in this room could just stop the violence, if we had this special power, if we could just give a command, and that would prevent people in intimate relationships from just stopping hurting each other physically, emotionally, hurting their neighbors, just stopping hurting each other and doing bad things to each other. after all, that's our purpose. we'd like to see it that way. if i could get that kind of enforcement, my whole tenure would be worth it. but it must be said that the relevant statistics show that the real causes of domestic violence are drugs, alcohol, gambling, and poor management of relationships. these are the biggest causes of violence that happen. and that's what we need to focus on. in fact, between one third and one half of all couples report some type of violence in their relationships. it's sad that protecting someone with a warrant in another state just won't work, and we have to focus on explaining to people what violence is. and not only did they issue an order that doesn't work. especially when he's referring to the dubious istanbul convention.
the murder of journalist ján kuciak and his girlfriend caused great shock not only in slovakia, but also in europe. today we adopted a resolution to help protect investigative journalists in europe. although i very much wanted to vote for such a resolution because i think journalists must have protection for their work, i did not end up supporting the resolution. the points that have been put in the resolution are, in my view, misleading and confusing. they concern the freedom of the media in slovakia. in the reporters without borders ranking, slovakia is ranked 17th in the world ranking of press freedom out of 180 countries. another point of contention is the one where they talk about politicizing the selection of prosecutors. the prosecutor general in slovakia is approved by a secret vote in the national council of the slovak republic. and finally, the point of contention is also the one that talks about local media being subjected to political pressure. i don't know about this kind of pressure. we have therefore asked for these items to be put to a separate vote. but since they were finally passed, i couldn't support the resolution. but i am in favour of the protection of journalists and i expect the commission to put in place effective european legislation to protect journalists.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i welcome the european parliament's resolution on the murder of the journalist jan kuciak and his fiancée. i signed the text prepared by the office of my colleague sulík. the text calls on the slovak authorities to thoroughly investigate the murder, which has not yet happened, and to tighten control over the use of eu funds, especially in our agricultural sector. he expresses doubts about the politicization of the office of the prosecutor general. slovakia is a proud and sovereign country. unfortunately, we have people at the head of it who support fraud on a massive scale. not to mention the verbal and physical abuse that's happening in our community. this has to stop, and we can't let this go on. i firmly believe that after this step slovakia will wake up and elect god-fearing representatives. the demonstrations in slovakia's streets have shown that 29 years after the soft revolution, the slovak public is not completely apathetic. i am particularly pleased with the initiative of young people who have not resigned themselves to the events in the country and have actively participated in it. thank you to all who have persevered and not given up in the fight against corruption and the abuse of power by our politicians. it's not right.
madam president, transport infrastructure is an important driver of regional development. an efficient transport network is essential for sustainable economic growth as well as for territorial balance. lagging regions face economic development problems, partly due to inadequate and inadequate transport systems and poor connections with other regions in the countries concerned or other regions within the eu. this applies to all modes of transport. without efficient transport networks, people in more remote regions or geographically isolated towns risk being cut off from services and jobs. it follows that it is investments in better connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure that also support the development of the least-developed regions, thus erasing regional disparities. it is therefore of the utmost importance that, beyond 2020, investment in transport infrastructure remains a priority in every budget of the european union.
for the ecr group. madam president, the protection of victims of violence is a sensitive area in which a cold bureaucratic approach is certainly not enough. the first contact should include access to all information in the simplest possible language, translation and interpretation in relation to the questioning of the alien and ongoing information, and adequate legal and psychological support. the issue of stalking, meaning dangerous stalking or harassment by stalking, is very serious. but i want to point out the thin ice we're on. there is a danger that false accusations can ruin the reputations of innocent people. according to a report by the united states department of justice, 43 percent of male victims of stalking said that the perpetrator was a woman. i want to invite my colleagues to a fair debate that doesn't demonize one gender, especially men. let us protect women from all forms of violence, but let us not make men and women irreconcilable rivals. our differences are gifts from the creator, to be complemented and lived in harmony. but i am sorry that commissioner jourová has used the expression again that we will press the member states to ratify the istanbul convention. i don't understand what this attitude is, that we are going to push, the european union is here to push, is here to push, manipulate? many states have legitimate reservations about this and it is much more sensible to use another document and to repeal the mis-formulated istanbul convention and create another and better one.
mr president, i asked to speak because i want to point out a serious systematic flaw in the work of this parliament. it is the crossing of competences and the adoption of opinions, challenges and recommendations in areas falling within the competence of the member states. in some committees it is almost impossible for me and some of my colleagues to vote in favour of owninitiative reports because they contain ideological demands and recommendations on the legal regulation of marriage and family policy, health policy and moral and ethical issues which are the exclusive competence of the member states. i would therefore like to call on the leadership of parliament to stop tolerating the lack of respect for the treaties in own-initiative reports and amendments, because it is precisely this kind of behaviour that leads to a loss of voters' trust in europe.
in writing. charles michel has expressed his vision of a strong europe that acts mainly where it can add real value. i agree that we need more cooperation, especially in areas that bring concrete benefits to our citizens. one of these areas is certainly the digital single market, mentioned by the prime minister. i believe that the creation of a common european digital market is the only right way to move this issue forward. it is therefore necessary to remove geo-blocking as soon as possible after the abolition of roaming and to improve the conditions not only for the free movement of information but also for electronic commerce. i am very pleased that the prime minister also stressed the need to preserve european values in his speech. new technologies bring many benefits to our daily lives, but the spread of radical ideas through social media is a threat to democracy. we must therefore remember that the future of europe will also be about protecting our fundamental values.
madam speaker, future generations will judge us for how we treated the most vulnerable. the european union must therefore protect every child on its territory, including migrants and refugees. however, i could not support this resolution because it refers to the text we adopted in this plenary in connection with the proposal for the conclusion of the istanbul convention. i consider this resolution to be controversial not only because of its content but also because it goes beyond the powers of the european union and of this parliament. violence against children must end. however, the istanbul convention is not the only or the best instrument to achieve this goal.
madam president, it is good that the european union is taking the lead in protecting animals and banning the testing of cosmetic products on them. we live in a world where almost 80% of countries still allow animal testing and the subsequent sale of these cosmetic products. we need to push for the development of alternative methods, whether by promoting research or by banning imports of products from third countries that do not comply with union rules. it is interesting to look at the catechism of the catholic church, which states that god authorized man to use animals for food, clothing, and agricultural purposes. however, this right is not absolute, and one has an obligation to be kind to them. it is immoral to cause animals any unnecessary suffering and to treat them as things. they are god's creatures, but things have their limits.
madam president, i was faced with a dilemma when i voted on the freedom of the press report. i believe that freedom of the press is a fundamental condition for the functioning of a free society, because only independent media can control the power of the government. i also think it is important that the deliberate and still uninvestigated murder of journalist jan kuciak and his fiancée martina kušnírová should be discussed on european soil. but i refuse to allow these issues to be used to recklessly enforce the so-called istanbul convention, with which they have nothing to do. those who do so knowingly and deliberately exclude christians from civil society and vindicate its critics. in protest against these practices, i did not endorse the resolution.
mr president, on wednesday we will be discussing the impact of the relocation of production in the context of the embraco case, when production was moved from italy to slovakia, for which we have earned international criticism. in such cases, it is important to encourage corporate social responsibility and to support the development of industry in the european union. i agree with that. but as companies come to slovakia, they leave, leaving a mess behind. for example, at bodet&horst in vrbovo, a large part of the more than 300 employees had just had to resign en masse because they were going bankrupt. she's been with us for over 13 years. it received up to five and a half million subsidies from the budget of the slovak republic for development. in the meantime, production had also started in romania. in april, it announced that it was ending its activities in slovakia and moving to germany and romania. this must be accepted in the free market of the european union. but it's unthinkable that he leaves slovakia with unpaid wages and receivables. social security and medicare alone, they owe over 600,000. of course, there may be mismanagement behind its collapse, but it cannot be accepted that companies leave debts behind, leave and we support them to do business in another country. i therefore ask the commission to create a legislative instrument to prevent companies from moving between european union countries until they have settled all their claims in the country of origin.
adopted on 16 february. the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the authorisation for the placing on the market of the medicinal product concerned to the period from 1 january 2002 to 31 december 2003. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when it comes to your own interests, you forget that you want to be great europeans. 'equal pay for equal work' may sound fair, but in reality you are overriding the most important market factor - price. moreover, they directly and deliberately disadvantage the service providers from the eastern european countries, because they have to bear the cost of the secondment in addition to the same salary. they cannot be part of the wage, as stated in article 3 (7). i ask you: how are the eastern european service providers to compete with the western european service providers?
in writing. i consider the proposed eu regulation on posted workers to be restrictive and discriminatory, especially against small and medium-sized enterprises. the burden of monitoring the legal order and collective agreements of individual countries is particularly heavy. i did not vote for the directive because, instead of at least exempting the entrepreneurs working in freight and passenger transport (this was the original compromise), it offers them a special legislation which is expected to reduce the competitiveness of domestic carriers in the west by the same means.
in writing. the directive we agreed to introduce equal pay for equal work in the same place was a long-drawn-up one that generated a variety of opinions and discussions. under this legislation, workers posted temporarily to another eu member state should also receive equal pay for the same work. i mean, like domestic workers in that state. also, the costs related to travel, food and accommodation should be borne by the employer and should not be deducted from the salary of the posted worker. the duration of the deployment should not exceed 12 months, with a possible extension of a further six months. after that period, if the worker remains in the member state concerned, he will be subject to all the provisions of the host country's labour law. i think that the concern that foreign employers will no longer be interested in posting workers is unfounded, because the advanced member states are already suffering from a labour shortage and there will always be a demand for workers from other member states. i believe the principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place is right and i have supported it.
mr president, on this subject, i would like to say that only 6% of all farmers in the european union are under 35 years of age. this situation is alarming because it is the result of a downward trend in recent years. it is the responsibility of national governments first and then european union policies to take steps to improve this situation. after all, it is about our food production, our food self-sufficiency and even the competitiveness of our agricultural sector. first of all, young farmers' access to land needs to be improved, because this is really problematic. the possibility to buy or rent land must be made easier. second, provide more favourable schemes for financing and purchasing agricultural machinery. and thirdly, to favour young farmers in the taking up and, above all, the repayment of loans, for example by postponing the repayment until after the first harvest. and last but not least, to review the system of direct payments for land, because they too often become, for example in slovakia, a source of speculative enterprise instead of supporting farming. i supported this report because it is about promoting generational change and starting support for the segment.
madam president, the gaza population is in a miserable condition, which also means that we could not find a better environment for manipulation and the rise of extremism. i am sorry to say – probably some colleagues will be passionately opposed here – but it is the palestinian authority that has for years been consciously abusing the people of gaza for their despicable political gain. the latest incident where almost 60 palestinians died is another proof of that. the death of each one of them is a tragedy, of course, but it has to be said that hamas planned the violent events way in advance. most of the palestinians killed during the violent riots on the israel-gaza borders were members of a terror organisation. a hamas official, salah al—bardawil, admitted in an interview to a local tv station that 50 out of the 62 palestinians killed were hamas terrorists. also, hamas orchestrated the violent riots with the purpose of breaching the israel-gaza border and threatening the communities located near the fence. this was published on youtube, so i think it was prepared to create violence.
in writing. the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the union, changes in the international trade and policy practices of world powers and the strengthening of asia's trade influence require the union to focus more on the conditions for implementing and monitoring its trade policy. consistent analytical activity must be an aid to european producers and traders and must be a permanent part of the union's trade strategy. at the same time, its results can serve as a good basis for reviewing existing bilateral and multilateral treaties and for the flexible introduction of new rules and procedures which take account of the union's needs and capabilities in the field of international trade.
mr president, yesterday's vote on the proposal to revise the directive on posted workers was not clear on what exactly was being voted on. i therefore wish to raise a procedural objection under rule 184a to yesterday's vote on the revision of the posting of workers directive. the chairman has confusingly indicated the vote in a way that has led to 37 corrections in the vote so far by colleagues across the political groups, an unprecedented number of corrections. despite the controversy surrounding the proposal and the warning from his epp colleague, he did not change his position immediately after the vote and did not repeat the vote. so, i think it would be very good to have this vote repeated.
mr president, we know that, as in 2015, there is no unanimous support in the council today for extending the scope of the regulation on cooperation between member states in family matters and registered partnerships. i repeat the reasoning of the states which were against, and i quote: no union initiative in this area should be in conflict, even indirectly, with the fundamental principles of family law in the member states. the reason we are dealing with this issue today is obvious: to put political pressure on those member states which do not want to adapt their conception of marriage and the family to the fashionable trends. fortunately, this parliament has no jurisdiction in this matter. which is why i'm surprised we're giving this kind of talk a chance.
for the ecr group. madam president, the fact that a factory is planning to move production from italy to slovakia is not the cause of the disease, but only its consequence. this is a logical consequence of the fact that producers in italy have much worse business conditions than in slovakia. the solution is not to blame slovakia, but to think about italy's competitiveness, the huge regulatory burden, taxes, stability, which is not contributed to by the new government every year. and of course, the public debt, which is the second highest in the european union. these are the real reasons for the departure of the producers from italy. and there is one more negative factor to be mentioned openly, namely the fact that the euro is too strong for italy and that it is impossible to compensate for its competitiveness deficits by devaluing its own currency. italy is one of the richest countries in europe, but for two decades it has been trampled by its membership in the eurozone and its current reluctance to do so-called internal devaluation.
madam president, i appreciate mrs schuitz's attempt to table an alternative resolution, but i have reservations about it. the world health organization classifies medical abortion as a reproductive health service. in other words, whenever we talk about reproductive health, we also talk about termination of pregnancy, which is done at the request of a woman. reproductive health is mentioned in both resolutions. the difference is that the proposal adopted by the committee mentions it nine times, whereas the alternative proposal mentions it five times. both texts also pay great attention to the protection of lgbti rights. but the resolution is supposed to be about improving the status of women and girls, regardless of their sexual preference. both texts contain ideological passages. they go beyond what they're supposed to be talking about. therefore, i will not be able to support either of them.
madam president, i have been approached by the report and have studied it carefully. in reading it, i came across paragraph 8, where parliament, i quote, calls on the commission to create effective instruments for coordination between services and to delegate responsibility for the application of the youth dimension collectively to the vice-president of the european commission. if there are reasons to start applying the youth perspective in european policies and instruments, then we should also start applying the so-called family perspective. to see how european policies affect the family in the european union. it's a family whose interest should be in the portfolio of one of the vice presidents of the commission. these are family support measures for which the union should support the member states in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. why do i say that? youth doesn't fall from the tree. it grows in the family, it builds its human capital in the family, it receives the basic values on which our whole society is based in the family.
mr president, this is not the first time we have expressed concern about the human rights situation in iran. it is unacceptable that unfair trials continue to affect citizens with dual eu-iranian citizenship. these cases violate international agreements and undermine confidence in the development of common relations. we must ask the iranian authorities to ensure fair trials and release those wrongfully convicted and imprisoned. on this occasion, it should be reiterated that iran should allow the visit of the un special rapporteur as soon as possible. i'm concerned about reports from human rights organizations. we have little information about these cases, but they are a reflection of a regime that persecutes and deprives its own citizens of basic human rights. it is important that we, the european union, raise awareness of these cases and make an urgent and repeated appeal for respect for human rights in iran.
madam president, unjustified interference with the mileage of used cars contributes significantly to the loss of confidence of consumers and used car dealers, and thus distorts the functioning of the internal market and fair competition. i am also concerned that motor vehicles are not checked on the basis of actual mileage and that the manipulation of the mileage meter in motor vehicles has a negative impact on road safety and has a negative impact on the environment. i supported the resolution because i believe that technical solutions must be found to make it more difficult for non-professionals to interfere unlawfully with odometer readings. i also consider this to be important because many member states still do not provide consumers with the necessary tools to enable them to verify the history of used vehicles. i believe that eliminating odometer fraud will significantly increase the safety and reliability of cross-border vehicle purchases, thereby reducing the scale of unfair practices, and will also lead to significant benefits for millions of european consumers.
madam president, i also welcome the report on the mileage of cars, because it is a cynical, reckless practice and the people who pay the most for fraud with these cars are those with lower incomes and from weaker social backgrounds, especially from central and eastern europe, because it has become a practice to import cars from western europe to us in the countries of central europe. it is estimated that there are up to one million reversing-counter vehicles in slovakia. however, any attempt to limit this manipulation is doomed to failure unless we can also catch it sufficiently and better, more effectively, on vehicles imported from the member states of the union. the solution may be a common database - referred to here - of all cars in the european union, where the number of kilometres actually driven in the various repairs or manipulations of the car will be recorded. however, this database must meet all the standards for personal data protection so that they cannot be misused, because such cases are already occurring. it is important to apply odometer reversal solutions at european union level, as individual states cannot prevent fraud related to cross-border trade in second-hand motor vehicles.
madam president, the union's civil protection mechanism is a concrete expression of solidarity in the face of various natural or man-made disasters, when lives and property are saved. individual member states have their own civil protection mechanisms, but many times the assistance of several member states is needed for rapid disaster response. better cooperation, more technical resources, more effective and faster assistance in the event of forest fires, floods or earthquakes, which we have every year in almost every member state, will be appreciated by every citizen who receives such assistance. i myself, as mayor of the košice district, was involved in the evacuation of the population from the flood a few years ago, and i have therefore used my own experience to table amendments which we have adopted today, and i would like to thank you, dear colleagues, for that. they are about taking into account the needs of the elderly and disabled in any rescue effort, and adapting the material and technical means of protection to their health.
madam president, the main objective of the eu youth strategy is to invest in young people, which means investing in the future. i consider it positive that the results so far in terms of the implementation of the eu youth strategy are favourable. in the european union, we are seeing a continuing recovery: the european economy is on a path to relatively strong growth with falling unemployment. however, i regret that inequality in the european union is still high and that young europeans are particularly at risk of poverty. the unflattering situation of young people is also reflected in the fact that in the euro area their unemployment rate is still above 20%. in addition, many employed people face risks such as uncertain working conditions in terms of location, stress, or the length of the employment contract. i supported the resolution because i believe that the eu youth strategy will focus much more intensively in the coming period on creating more equal opportunities for all young people, especially in the areas of education and the labour market.
for the ppe group. madam president, the theme of this year's un international day of families is families and inclusive societies. we in slovakia have chosen the motto for family day: "we stand together". the common denominator of these two views is the mutual solidarity that originates in the family and flows from there into the wider community. we talk a lot about inclusion in the european union, too. true inclusion is based on the ability and willingness of people to stand not side by side, but together. strong with the weak, health with the sick, rich with the poor, those who live in excess with those who live in lack. 'standing together' is an expression of closeness that allows us to shake hands, support, comfort, simply help each other whenever needed. this closeness, this solidarity, we learn in the family. the european union has very limited powers to directly influence social policy, including social protection. its role, as defined in the treaties, is to support and complement the member states' activities in this area. however, every political decision at the european union level has an indirect impact on the family. the rules governing the european single market, foreign and security policy, the rights and obligations of citizens of the european union, even the prohibition of discrimination, all affect family life. mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore so important that the commission also takes into account the impact of the legislation it proposes on the family.
rapporteur for the committee on women's rights and gender equality, requested for an opinion. mr president, european education must aim above all at the development of reason and thinking. this sentence from ms. łybacka's report should be set in stone. i agree with many of the proposals in the report, but like the rapporteur for the opinion in the femm committee, ms šojdrová, i disagree with some. i support the emphasis on teachers and their pay, including the issue of the feminization of education, or the issue of equal opportunities for boys and girls and the motivation of girls for certain professions. the report also highlights the much-needed media literacy as the best long-term means of combating fake news and disinformation and increasing children's safety online. in this report, we therefore rightly call on the commission and the member states to create specific measures to support media and digital literacy projects.
mr. president, officer! i consider the issue of modernising education in the eu to be a very important document and i support it unequivocally. we need to see that embracing education, addressing the challenges of education as a priority, is a pillar on which europe's competitiveness can be built in the future. i can identify with the fundamental principles of the document. these are: emphasising the need for quality education, creating the necessary conditions and coordination at eu and member state level, supporting the various elements of cooperation between higher education institutions, the possibility of increasing linguistic and institutional competences, emphasising the importance of lifelong learning and incorporating a number of modern and innovative elements into educational processes. i am also pleased that the document pays attention to the teaching of minority students in their mother tongue. this element is also important because it is the second document this year to focus on minority education at the level of the european parliament. i would like to remind you that on 7 february this year the european parliament voted for the resolution on the protection of minorities and the prohibition of discrimination against them in the member states of the eu, which also stresses that the protection of minorities is a responsibility at european level. i appreciate that the report, which is otherwise very complex in its structure, also supports the promotion of the teaching and use of regional and minority languages. as i myself come from an indigenous european minority community, i know that this is extremely important and i hope that my country, slovakia, will also follow the recommendations of this document, including financial support for minority institutions and minority educators.
madam president, it is understandable that the court of justice of the european union in the coman case confirmed that citizens of all eu member states are equal in the rights conferred on them by the european treaties. but the fact that the concept of spouse required a court's interpretation is a very bad sign for this parliament as a co-creator of union law. every ambiguous term that we find in directives and regulations because of our desire to compromise at all costs is a failure of parliamentarism. it is an invitation for judges to do the work of mps, even though they have not been given a mandate by the electorate to do so and are not held accountable to them for their decisions. we like to say that every citizen's voice matters in europe. however, this must be the case only if, and will only be the case if, directives and regulations use clearly defined terms.
mr president, i was happy to support this resolution because the effort to reduce emissions gradually is the right one, of course. freight transport accounts for around a quarter of road transport emissions and this share is still growing, so it is important to motivate manufacturers to produce not only safer but also greener vehicles. moreover, unlike countries such as the united states, china, canada or japan, the european union is the only entity that does not apply limits to truck emissions. i think it's such a surprising thing because this is very serious. those truck emissions are huge. however, it is equally important that member states come up with concrete solutions to help people who will lose their jobs in environmentally-sensitive sectors in the future, as road transport, whether lorry or bus, is not only environmentally-sensitive but also an area threatened by robotization, namely autonomous cars. so we have to think about whether new, better cars will favour transport services and will be a serious intervention in the sector. after all, many people work here, including in slovakia, and they have important trade contracts with foreign countries, which indirectly employ many people in slovakia.
mr. chairman, if we teach our children today the way they were taught yesterday, we are robbing them of their future. unfortunately, this introduction to the resolution on the modernization of education accurately describes the problem of our slovak education system. that's what our ministers do, and they pay for their gambling by putting children out of school. the european parliament's report makes it clear that teachers must be involved in reform not as guinea pigs but as co-creators. but the school system in our country is doing the exact opposite, ignoring the demands of teachers for needed changes. in the foreseeable future, we're going to face challenges like robotization. the best option for slovakia to maintain competitiveness is to invest in education. schools need to be centers of critical thinking, training, problem solving, teamwork, relationship building. i am very sorry that our children themselves feel that the only way to get a quality education is to study abroad. and as parents from slovakia are forced to go to work far from their families, up to thirty thousand young people go to study abroad, with half of them wanting to stay abroad after graduation. however, i could not support this resolution because it again contains a paragraph on gender ideology which is completely absurd and which, in this area and in others, infringes the subsidiarity of the member states. (the chairman interrupted the speaker. )
mr president, there is no doubt that the jcpoa has been an important achievement that could guarantee security in the region and bring iran back onto the international scene. it is very unfortunate, therefore, to see the us backpedalling on this deal. the consequences for international relations and for security in the region could be dire. the eu finds itself in a difficult situation. i agree that we should keep iran tied to this deal. it will be tough, but in the given circumstances we have no other choice. we will have to work, moreover, out of the uncertainties around the investments that the eu made in iran. this concerns in particular the sanctions the usa could bring to businesses interested in investing in iran. we also have our own eib investments in iran. it would be very unfortunate if they were subject to us sanctions. the situation will need a diplomatic solution.
madam president, there is a major loophole in the current nuclear deal, and that is the lack of any limits on iranian military expansionism. iran is directing a massive army of shia militias in both iraq and syria, and in both countries has a direct military presence in the shape of the islamic revolutionary guard corps. in syria especially this iranian presence is very clear. it is obvious that any economic support from the eu to iran will go directly to the companies owned by ayatollah khamenei and his family and to the companies owned by the islamic revolutionary guard corps. this is the very force that helped assad drive refugees to europe. my question is why the eu policy towards assad has changed so fundamentally that we plan to support the forces he is depending on. why should the eu support the forces that are harassing the christians in iraq? the eu needs to consider these consequences before there is any continuation.
mr president, military ventures into neighbours’ territory should have been a thing of the past. however, the actions in august 2008 clearly show that violations of the rule-based international system remains continue in the post-soviet era. georgia’s territory has been compromised. russia further continues to illegally occupy abkhazia and south ossetia, thus breaking the ceasefire for almost a decade. in these difficult times we have to show our commitment to georgia and its euro-atlantic aspirations. the eu has a variety of instruments which support the peaceful resolution of the conflict, including the eusr and the eu monitoring mission (eumm). the eumm remains the only international force in the country monitoring the administrative borderline. russia continuously violates this line. our instruments must be coupled with clear determination against military incursions and a firm stance on subsequent undermining of georgia’s territorial integrity.
in writing. the values of democracy, peace, human rights, freedoms and respect for the sovereignty and independence of the member states of both entities must remain the basis of eu-nato cooperation in the future. however, cooperation and coordination of the components concerned, enhanced tactical and operational cooperation in the field of security, defence and protection against military attacks, together with the development of appropriate military equipment and new technologies, must also take into account new forms of threats and attacks, in particular those linked to digitalisation and cyber-attacks. care should be taken that this support is not misused, for example, to support terrorism or conflict-inducing activities and attacks. moreover, it should not be forgotten that the increase in armaments spending and the coordination of expenditure are not enough. we need to call on our partners, especially the us, to devote more resources to development aid. without funding for education, we cannot address poverty and unemployment in, say, africa, nor the huge population boom on this continent, which, together with poverty, is a risk not only for africa, but for all of us.
madam president, i support macroeconomic assistance, and i am glad that we are going to extend our help to ukraine. this assistance should help ukraine to balance part of its external financing needs for late 2018 and early 2019. it is therefore important that we could agree on sending the assistance at the right time. this, however, does not mean that ukraine has already finished with the reform agenda. we should closely follow developments and, if necessary, put pressure on the ukraine authorities to timely implement the agreed reforms. i think that ukraine has made progress in its transition from an oligarchic to a more western, liberal, democratic system. those of us who come from behind the iron curtain know that there is no easy way to do it. ukraine has enormous potential to modernise and become a leader in the reforms. it is in our interests to support it in this difficult transition.
for the s&d group. madam president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur and all the co-rapporteurs who worked on that report, because the topic of the circular economy is very topical and necessary. for most people, the idea of a circular economy remains an abstract, if not altogether distant, concept. this is also evidenced by the statistic that more than 60% of waste is not recycled. they end up in landfills. we have easily adopted the "make, consume, throw away" model. the circular economy is a model of production and consumption where things are not thrown away, but shared, borrowed, reused, repaired and recycled as much as possible. today we throw away products made of wood, textiles, glass, plastics, but also building materials, iron, practically everything that we no longer need for our own use for any reason. it is therefore essential that future cohesion policy also has a stimulating aspect for the circular economy where it is actually applied. this means that local and regional authorities must be fully involved in this transition. today, we already know several bright examples where it was small communities that created their own local circular economy strategy and became energy independent. i want to emphasise that municipalities and local authorities have the knowledge, the know-how, that really works. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union. the circular economy is not self-sufficient. it brings benefits in terms of environmental quality, increases the security of raw material supply, increases competitiveness, brings innovation, growth and the creation of new jobs. it offers consumers more durable and better quality products that save them money and improve their quality of life. we should keep all this in mind if we are to adopt the budget after 2020, so that cohesion policy and the circular economy go hand in hand, so that they complement each other.
mr president, of course, violence against women is not something that anyone wants to approve of, that nobody wants to approve of, that is not even right. but at the same time, it's important to see that a lot of countries have problems with this document, and i think it's important that this should be respected. research shows that the causes of violence against women are not what you keep saying in this document: that men attack women because they are women. that's not true. it's alcohol, gambling, relationship problems, and many states see this document as an ideological problem. specifically, in point c, you say you want to redefine the understanding of the roles of men and women in society. but this is not happening with an international document. and the removal of this violence is not done by restrictions and orders, but by education and respect in families, in schools, towards women as such, towards the capacity that life is supposed to bring. turkey ratified the convention, but when there was a case of a man who raped a woman, it was enough to introduce a law that if he married her, he would already be exempt from punishment. please, the istanbul convention needs to be created anew. a new document that will suit the state.
in writing. at a time of difficult questions and great challenges, dutch prime minister marko rutte reminds us of the importance of the european project and why it is worth fighting for. the eu is one of the most successful projects in our modern history, bringing together different nations, cultures and languages to seek compromises and achieve together goals that we could not achieve individually. of course, our union is going through a challenging time, whether it's the uk leaving, a difficult economic situation or a complex refugee crisis, but the answer is certainly not indifference or closure. i agree with mark rutte that we need to look more closely at where the eu can help improve our lives, and also to fully appreciate the value of unity in a rapidly changing world.
mr president, i supported the resolution to provide further macro-financial assistance to ukraine because, as a slovak living close to ukraine, i think that the people of ukraine deserve our help in building a fairer, more stable and prosperous country. but i must also express my deep concern that the commission has suspended funding for the modernisation project for the border crossing with hungary, romania and slovakia due to the long delay in the construction of the modernisation of the border crossings, with no other solutions available. if we have allowed ukrainians to travel to eu countries without visas with a time limit, then we must find solutions to ensure that border crossings meet at least basic standards, because today the conditions at the ukrainian-slovak border crossing are alarming. i believe that it is the commission which has the power to monitor and guide the ukrainian authorities so that the funds they receive from the european union are used efficiently and for the benefit of their citizens.
for the ecr group. madam president, the proportionality test seeks to remove the remaining barriers to the single market. today, those who want to offer professional services or take up employment in another member state have to face a significant number of regulatory obstacles. the situation is even worse in professions where professional qualifications must be demonstrated and the 28 member states have their own rules on what these qualifications should look like. those interested in these professions then face a slow and bureaucratic process of so-called mutual recognition of qualifications. for that reason, i consider the proportionality test to be correct, since its aim is to prevent excessive regulation of the profession before it is adopted by the states. proportionality is a long-standing and sadly unenforced principle, otherwise we would not have countries with more than 500 regulated professions today, while other countries have only 70. the proportionality test should discourage states from making unnecessary regulations, and our negotiations with the council have also helped to preserve the principle of greater transparency in the adoption of national regulations. i am glad that we are trying to remove obstacles rather than create them, and this directive is one of the few that really has the potential to reduce the number of regulations. but the question arises why we cannot be consistent in this approach. today we are removing barriers, but two weeks ago we voted to amend the posting of workers directive, which deliberately restricts service providers from other member states. i'd like to know how we can support two opposing initiatives at the same time and still pretend to be working towards a common goal.
mr president, i would like to say that i feel that we are being a little unfair to the member states. i will speak for my country, for the slovak republic. the slovak republic has its own strategy to help solve the roma problem. we have a roman proxy. and i know that this is the case in many countries, because i have been on fact-finding missions on several occasions, visiting many countries where there are larger roma communities, which we consider to be excluded or groups that have difficulty integrating. but i'll go back to what livia jarocka said: without working with the roma community itself, we're not going to be successful in these strategies. it's one thing to have great strategies, but it's another to not be able to implement them because a large part of the roma community is not cooperating with those strategies. and speaking of education, i just want to say on behalf of my country that my country has created all the conditions for roma children to be educated from preschool through school. unfortunately, they do not feel supported to get an education in their family environment, so they leave school early and have difficulty finding a job. moreover, most roma in slovakia are more likely to work in manual jobs, because they leave such schools, and we know very well that technological progress does not allow creating enough jobs to be able to do such work. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. it is not true that special segregated schools for roma children are being created in slovakia. on the contrary, slovak governments, whether current or past, have tried to create space for roma children to be integrated into the regular education system in regular schools. the problem is that we have roma settlements regionally located in some areas and unfortunately, because there is a higher prevalence of roma children from roma settlements, not all of them meet their own abilities the opportunity to be part of other schools, and therefore special schools are not created only for roma children.
mr president, officer, i have to go. the committee on petitions has been contacted by a number of european citizens on the use of languages, and we are therefore asking the commission and the council today to answer the questions raised. i consider the questions to the two institutions to be forward-looking, because if we want an open europe, capable of understanding and getting to know each other, we must start by educating young people. without language, it is harder to learn about our cultures, more difficult to travel and more difficult to study abroad. it is therefore important that as many initiatives as possible aimed at strengthening linguistic diversity receive strong eu support. the european union can do a lot to help learners, for example by making it faster and more flexible to accept examinations and certificates from other member states, or by better supporting institutions specialising in teaching languages from other member states. i would like to pause here because i think that similar, or perhaps even greater, support is needed for pupils and students who speak minority or regional languages. i therefore ask the commission and the council to take account of the young people who speak minority languages in europe in their future actions.
mr president, the european union contributes to the development of quality education by promoting cooperation between member states. it shall support and complement the activities of the member states where necessary. in doing so, it should fully respect their responsibility for the content of teaching, the organisation of education systems and cultural and linguistic diversity. programmes such as erasmus are a good example of spreading this diversity and understanding across the union. however, i am concerned that language tests are not recognised equally by all the countries of the union. it is common practice that if a student obtains a state examination or other equivalent english language certificate in, for example, slovakia, he or she has a subsequent problem with its recognition within the other eu countries. this week we talked about the european union's education strategy. this strategy requires the interlinking of higher education, subject to mutual recognition of language certificates. it is student mobility in the eu that helps to increase the training of young people and ultimately their employment in the labour market. each member state has a unique cultural and linguistic identity which we should respect. all states are equal under union law and therefore the practice of recognising language competences should also be harmonised in this respect.
madam chairman, if every person rejected corrupt behavior, there would be no corruption. but this is utopia. therefore, a system that does not allow for corruption at every level must be established. when i was mayor of the city and later chairman of the local government district, we created such a system. we've become the best-managed city in the country, and transparency international has repeatedly rated us the most transparent county in the country. but watch out! you will be the target of those who have lived off corruption. they have money, and therefore they have power. i'm the shadow rapporteur for the new financial regulation. we have agreed in the committees that companies based in tax havens cannot apply for european funding from the european budget, nor can they be suppliers in such contracts. the trialogue council disagreed. it is clear that companies that do not pay taxes will lose out to fair competition. how can it be moral and legal if someone doesn't pay taxes and then wins contracts that are put up by those who pay taxes honestly? dutch prime minister mark rutte yesterday said the reason why romania and bulgaria can't be in the schengen area is because of the high level of corruption. and it has nothing to do with corruption if, with the blessing of the government, there is a system that lives off tax evasion and tax avoidance? such a system hurts and robs all honest taxpayers, public finances, and social spending. it threatens macroeconomic stability, social cohesion and public confidence in the european institutions. the only way, commissioner, dear friends, is to create a system at all levels that will not allow such practices.
in writing. although the eu and the member states have so far adopted a number of measures and instruments to prevent and combat the spread of corruption and illicit financial flows, i believe that corruption continues to have a negative impact on all areas of our public life. we often talk about corruption in the use of eu funds, about corruption in public administration, even there are reports of corrupt behaviour of the highest state officials. a few years ago, we spoke in the ep about the corruption that has hit sport, the sector that should be the most fair-play. corruption is all around us, and we have become accustomed to many forms of corruption. it is therefore important that the commission submits a report every year to the ep, the elected representatives of the eu's citizens, on the state of corruption in the eu, as well as on the measures taken to eliminate it. detecting individuals and organised criminal groups in the illicit acquisition of financial resources is not easy, but cooperation between law enforcement authorities and mutual information makes it possible to create control mechanisms that detect and punish corruption. because corruption not only robs us of significant financial resources, but we must realize that corruption undermines the foundations of democracy and the rule of law.
madam president, i supported the report because i consider it very important. access to culture is one of the fundamental rights guaranteed in many legal documents, but there are still many barriers to access and participation in culture. structural barriers, which can be defined as geographical, i.e. distance from centres of cultural life such as theatres, museums, libraries, cinemas or cultural centres, can already be overcome today. digital barriers are no longer an acute problem either, because digital literacy is advancing dramatically. the most important obstacle is financial. the european union's budget, which is very frugal on culture, also contributes to this. but individual member states should also contribute more in their budgets to a culture that brings people together, educates, educates, prevents social exclusion and, last but not least, creates new job opportunities. culture must become part of the life of every citizen from the earliest childhood. i would particularly like to draw attention to measures to improve access to culture for people with disabilities.
madam president, the regulation of access to the professions is still a matter for the member states and it is therefore for the national authorities to set the conditions. but at the same time, member states must respect the principles of non-discrimination and proportionality. the report we have adopted today sets out the criteria that a member state must respect when assessing its measures. we want all member states to have comparable conditions and for the evaluation to be more transparent and to include all stakeholders in the decision-making process. since regulated professions such as doctors, engineers and architects play a key role in the european economy, it is important that they have clear and transparent conditions for the performance of their activities. the way in which member states regulate these conditions must be transparent and predictable across europe. i am therefore pleased that this report, which i supported, will define clear rules which will thus contribute to the protection of public health, the protection of consumers, the recipients of these services and workers in the various sectors.
small farmers are the backbone of european agriculture, representing two thirds of all farms in the european union. these are often family farms, which play an irreplaceable role in the life of their region. they provide local jobs, maintain traditions and bring citizens food grown without excessive chemical treatment. unfortunately, they are often subject to undue pressure from competing large agribusinesses, and in slovakia the situation is critical in this area, as some small farmers are driven off their land and prevented from working it. it is incredible that this is happening with the blessing of the slovak government authorities, as witnessed in may on the grounds of the european parliament by the small farmers themselves, who cannot get justice. the murdered journalist ján kuciak also wrote about these cases. it is our duty to help small farmers: not only by creating pressure to investigate scandals and punish the guilty, but above all by creating conditions so that the collection of european aid is fair, thoroughly controlled and so that farmers can devote themselves to their honest work instead of unnecessary paperwork.
madam president, i appreciate that austria has chosen as one of its priorities security and the fight against illegal migration, but i have a question to pose. what would you say if i told you that a member state issued 300 schengen visas every day, including sundays? how would you react if a standard 14-day period for issuance was narrowed to just 1.5 days? would you stay calm if this happened in one of our member state’s consulates in tripoli, which is in libya? but what i say is not a joke: this is the current condition of schengen area security, which was supposed to be safe for all eu citizens. the maltese authorities have allegedly issued and sold 88 000 schengen visas to libyan nationals and an unknown number of medical visas. the maltese authorities are refusing to investigate the scandal, and the commission – otherwise very active when it comes to the rule of law – turns a blind eye. members that so blatantly break the basic rule of common security must be temporarily suspended and the case thoroughly investigated. i insist. in view of its priorities, i call upon your presidency to stop this madness and get the schengen safe. (applause)
madam president, you started the presentation of the austrian presidency with a nice sentence. the phrase was that 'the european union is a major project that still needs work' and i agree with you and i agree with the phrase that it is a project worth finding common solutions and working on. i would like to echo the slogan of your presidency, 'europe that protects', to put social policy in the spotlight, because the european union needs to find solutions in the field of social policy, and in this context it seems unfair to me that your government is proposing to create once again a kind of double category of citizens in the european union, by reducing family allowances for slovak carers in your country. all children in the european union are the same, whether they are our slovaks or your austrians. and i would also like to draw attention to one of the problems we have here, mr chancellor, and that is how we are treating romania, bulgaria and croatia. these are countries that are member states of the european union and yet we have not yet found the courage to become members of the schengen area. so if we want to build a strong schengen area, then only with these countries.
i have to say, madam president, we have known since yesterday that after three years of extremely negligent action, the german government wants to control who comes to germany again. after the immense damage caused by letting in all passers-by, this decision is compelling and logical. the reaction of austria is immediate: austrian borders are being controlled, italy is also taking border controls seriously. the schengen system is thus being abolished: if some are to be denied entry, all must be controlled. we are losing one of the greatest advantages of the european union because for a long time the european union has not ensured that valid treaties - specifically the schengen treaty - and rules are respected. i would like to remind you of the infringement procedure against greece in 2010, which is still in a drawer. it is to be hoped that the european union has understood that the protection of the external border is of the utmost importance. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. what i can accept is that the european union protects the external border. if necessary, this boundary must be hermetically sealed. we can't have a single person coming in illegally. that's acceptable to me. it's the only thing that's gonna work. and dublin iv is dead. it's all bullshit what it says. dublin iv is dead.
in writing. before the european council, many member state leaders had already announced their unchanging positions on the migration crisis, which was one of the main points of the council meeting. it was merkel, macron, but also the v4 countries. on the other hand, we have european citizens who are torn between the dilemma of providing humanitarian aid and the natural fear of uncontrolled migration flows. the summit took place a year before the european elections, a year before the new commission was set up and less than a year before brexit. so if we don't want more exits and more extremists and opponents of a common europe in the new ep, the leaders of the member states had to take off their rose-colored glasses and reach an agreement on the migration crisis. all agreed to protect the external borders and to have an effective return policy. i consider it most important to protect schengen, which is one of the greatest achievements of our common europe. another important point at the summit was cooperation with africa. if we do not help africa immediately, the threat of poverty, famine, climate change, war and terrorism, the hundreds of thousands of migrants who are now threatening to become millions, would have devastating consequences for europe. the creation of an eu trust fund for africa is a good step, but the eu must take further action to eliminate poverty in africa.
in writing. i welcome the agreement on migration and the maintenance of a consensus within the german government coalition. the success of cooperation between member states is also demonstrated by the fact that the number of illegal border crossings has decreased by 95% since 2015. we must now concentrate on stabilising the situation in the immediate vicinity of the european union.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mrs regner for her report. they said they drove 15 hours straight, high on amphetamines. but that's already forbidden today! no eastern european driver may drive in germany or france for more than 15 hours. what are you talking about?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mrs. regner said earlier that drivers also have to drive 15 hours. later she admitted that this was already prohibited by current laws, but in reality it still happens. but the point is that the police in the western countries are not able to enforce this driving ban, which already exists today. that is why the arguments are hypocritical that we need new rules, new laws, new guidelines, if we cannot comply with the existing ones. this is not about the protection of drivers or the protection of workers coming from eastern europe to western europe. this is about protecting our own markets, and i think that is completely incorrect and very hypocritical. if the members of parliament really want to protect the people, they would demand that an industrial worker in slovakia at volkswagen should earn as much as an industrial worker in germany who works at volkswagen. but they don't want to.
european smes are in a paradoxical situation. on the one hand, they are the backbone of our economy, bringing jobs and development to the regions and now also playing a major role in innovation, on the other hand, they suffer from underfunding, lack of access to credit and an increasingly complex bureaucratic environment. if we are to help them better, we need a clear and functional definition of what a small and medium-sized enterprise is in our circumstances. what was true in 2003 before the explosive development of the internet and modern technologies, before the advent of new forms of business, can no longer reflect reality. it's not enough to say that this company has so many and so many employees, so it's in that category. we have startups and different technology ecosystems. financial instruments and market realities have also changed over the last 15 years. in short, the definitions that are in force today and on which european and national legislation is based no longer exist. let us therefore look for new ones, ones that reflect reality and include micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, start-ups and other existing forms of entrepreneurship. but let's also look to the future, when we've managed to change the conditions in 15 years, what's waiting for us in 10 years. the european commission needs to start working on a definition of smes that not only reflects the current situation but is also open to the changes that will inevitably come.
i have to say, madam president, the only reason why greece can be exempted from the so-called rescue programme is because the interest rates are zero. it is not the least problem to service an infinite number of debts when the maturities are extended again and again and the interest rates are zero. because the investments of french and german banks had to be saved, greece was not allowed to go bankrupt in 2010, and today it has to move a huge mountain of debt in front of it. once market interest rates are restored, greece will have no chance of survival. the so-called rescue package has made greece a vassal of the european central bank and the bailout fund. it also says that debt relief is the only real solution. if that had happened in 2010, greece would have gone bankrupt, there would have been an automatic debt write-off, private investors would have paid. today it will have to be public money, and the taxpayers will pay for it.
i would like to acknowledge the extraordinarily hard work of both rapporteurs, but also of the negotiators from all the institutions. those who use eu funds repeatedly complain that the rules are complex, constantly expanding and complicating, leading to slower implementation and higher costs. and the mistakes are bigger. if there is less bureaucracy, less paperwork, we will not discourage mayors, mayors and other beneficiaries from applying for european funding. they will draw on european funds more quickly and at lower cost. it is a pity that the commission did not assess from the outset the impact of all its proposals. if we approve something, we need to know exactly the consequences of each decision we make. if we had an impact assessment, the new rules could have been in place sooner and the simplifications could have been even more substantial. i will come back to this because i have been given an extra half-minute to say that companies based in tax havens that do not cooperate will not be able to apply for funding from the european budget. commissioner, even in cooperative tax havens there are firms that are equally tax-advantaged and therefore more competitive than those not in tax havens, and we will have to deal with this problem in the future.
although the right of persons with disabilities to vote and to stand for election is enshrined in the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, to which not only the european union but also individual member states have acceded, this right is still not taken for granted everywhere. i am very pleased that the constitutional court in slovakia last year recognised the right to vote for people deprived of legal capacity. however, some of these people remain concerned about whether they will even get to the ballot box and be able to freely choose who will assist them in exercising their right to vote. despite this positive step, many people with disabilities are still not allowed to go to the polling station because of barriers. for the same reasons, they can't be members of the electoral commissions. it is also not taken for granted that the pre-election debates or election programmes are accessible to people with hearing or visual impairments, that the materials are accessible, easily understandable and usable. it's important to break down not only physical barriers, but also psychological ones. so that people with disabilities who choose to run for office have a chance to be elected. their active presence in political decision-making is important, beneficial and enriching, and above all, it is their fundamental right.
it's not just for participating in or voting in the european elections that people with disabilities don't expect our sympathy. they need concrete steps to make it easier for them to overcome the obstacles they face on a daily basis. people with disabilities are a full-fledged part of our society. in the context of the upcoming elections and the increase in participation of disabled citizens, it is not only about the possibility to vote, but also about the active exercise of their right to be elected. the european commission must therefore also think of people with disabilities in this case. you should prepare a large-scale motivation campaign so that they can more easily run for office and directly apply for the votes of citizens if they are interested. you should have a sufficient amount of information materials, a tailored website or specialised press available to you. they shall be freely available in a variety of formats and shall be understandable and easily readable, including in braille. it is very important that we involve our fellow citizens and especially the disabled as actively as possible in everyday life, including their participation in elections.
member of the commission. – mr president, it is, of course, very sad to have to discuss this tragedy, but at the same time it is our duty to stand ready with the member states and help them in these sad moments, and that is what we are doing. last year’s experience with simultaneous forest fires showed that the current eu civil protection mechanism, based on voluntary offers, has reached its limit. last year the problems were primarily in portugal, but also at the same time in france and in other countries, and we have seen a repeat this year with simultaneous fires in greece, sweden and latvia. we have been facing multiple crises in numerous countries at the same time and, as a result, our member states cannot always provide assistance to other member states at the crucial moment. that is precisely why the commission proposes to strengthen its civil protection system and create the mechanism that we call resceu. resceu establishes at european union level a limited number of well—defined, own-operation capacities as a safety net to be deployed in response to a request by a member state when existing capacities are overwhelmed. what used to be considered a type of natural disaster affecting only the south of europe is now present, as you know, in the north too, in sweden and in latvia. we have also had wildfires in greenland, and this means that what has been sensed here is true: climate change is real, it is happening, it is creating new realities on the ground, and we must adapt to them. that is why, as i said, the commission proposed a new initiative last november to strengthen our collective capabilities to respond to natural disasters, with prevention and preparation as the fundamental pillar. through resceu we want to help member states to do more on prevention and to foster a culture of prevention. we also want to help member states, through european funds, to boost their own national capacities in respect of the various risks they face. trilogues on these proposals started last week, and we need to conclude these discussions by november this year in order to have resceu up and running by the summer season, which i think is essential. on what my portfolio covers, as i said at the beginning of the last debate, i was in constant contact with all the authorities – local and regional – and with members of the european parliament. we hoped for an assessment of the damage to indicate where we can help, but we are still waiting and it seems that this event is not eligible, according to the legislation agreed and voted by the co—legislators – by the european parliament and the council. however, as i said, i am ready to discuss with the greek authorities the possibility of advance payment and also of changing some operational programmes. we have the envelope for attica and we can change operational programmes at the request of the member states if they want to transfer some of the money for reconstruction. we are ready to do whatever is possible to help, according to the legislation we have in place.
the rapporteur let me first explain briefly the reasons that led to the creation of this report. very often, and we're used to this, we talk about the ageing of the european population and the increasing rates of chronic disease and disability. a little less talk about how much this change will affect the way we work and what impact it will have on the work environment for all of us. i am therefore very pleased to have found among my colleagues here in parliament the will to formulate ways of tackling this challenge more actively and together. in preparing the report, i met with many experts not only in brussels but also in slovakia. i was interested in the views of government, employers, patient organizations. thank you for your valuable advice and recommendations. i would also like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, advisers and the secretariat of the committee on social affairs and employment for their excellent cooperation, patience, helpfulness and substance. together, we have found that there are often different approaches to returning to work after illness, and different ways in which countries help their citizens. yet there are approaches that we can all support and share together. unfortunately, there are still many cases where things do not work, people are left without help and the necessary steps are not taken by the states, local governments or employers. this is a space that we should fill, and i believe that this report can also be helpful. the added value of our work, the work of the european parliament, is to help member states develop preventive measures in particular, giving priority to early intervention when a worker's health is deteriorating, and thus preventing more complex health problems. prevention is key. at this point, i would also like to mention that although chronic diseases, for example, are more likely to be associated with older age, and even this is not true in many cases, the report does not forget about mental health, excessive stress and mental problems. they are also part of our lives, and where necessary, we need to speak out about them, help to remove prejudice and improve understanding of mental health. i didn't just write the report from my desk, but i tried to get the perspective of people in practice, people who were trying to get back to work after illness or disability themselves. these discussions have shown me the great need for better institutional cooperation between all relevant stakeholders and also the need for an individualised approach. the rehabilitation of workers at work consists of three different aspects: the first is medical, the second is occupational and the third is social. successful rehabilitation and return to work involves all three, and it is important that our report reflects this approach. the report encourages member states to take a cue from best practices and approaches, while seeking to identify areas where the european union can bring added value and know-how to further support policies that will ultimately help member states to enable workers to re-enter the labour market. equally important to me is that by successfully returning to work after illness, we could give a much larger number of people than we do now the hope of a more dignified and independent life. we face two great challenges today. the first is more technical. we need to improve standards, methods, prevention, cooperation. the second challenge is about changing perception. we need to drastically change the perception of people with disabilities in mainstream society. i believe that this report will be one of the necessary steps towards these goals.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs picierno, for her work. it is thanks to this that we have a text that can be supported by all the political groups. i would like to point out that the report also highlights the harassment of pregnant women and mothers in the workplace. the resulting text is balanced, since it is based on the imperative of human dignity enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which is based on the christian understanding of the human person. if we really want to eliminate sexual harassment and bullying in the workplace once and for all, we need to talk more about the fact that we are equal in our dignity as human beings. this ethical postulate is the real reason why no one has the right to harass or bully another human being. not the istanbul convention, laws or company rules.
mr president as a citizen of the slovak republic, i would like to draw attention to the importance of observing the basic political and moral rules of the game. a few months ago, slovak public opinion was shocked by the news that a journalist and his fiancée were brutally murdered in our country, in the heart of europe. a few weeks ago, another shocking news came to light, that the vietnamese communist government used an official slovak government plane to smuggle a vietnamese citizen out of the schengen zone, fearing that the slovaks had also deceived the polish authorities. and if that wasn't enough, just a few days ago we received news that the eu's anti-corruption agency, olaf, had uncovered a fraud in slovakia of over 300 million euros, in which slovak customs authorities had deliberately undervalued chinese goods imported into the eu in order to impose much lower duties on them. mr president, i am very sorry that my country is receiving such negative news, and at the request of my constituents i would like to say that there are many of us in slovakia who do not agree with these practices. thank you very much.
first of all, i would like to thank the european commission for having decided to do the same for millions of citizens of the union and to abolish the use of the time zone twice a year. however, i would like to take this opportunity to ask commissioner bulc to publish the draft legislation in question as soon as possible. i'm already facing questions from citizens, the media, and even some colleagues who are not sure what the abolition of the time change will mean. some expect summertime to be observed all year round, while others expect the opposite. i also feared that harmonization would be completely abolished, leading to chaos. it took several years to get to this stage of the negotiations. it would be detrimental if inaccurate information or lack thereof caused uncertainty and misunderstanding in society. i therefore call on the commission to communicate clearly and unambiguously on this issue.
mr president, colleagues, this debate here is about much more than the fate of one nation. we are shaping the future of the european union here and there are complaints about the hungarian institutions, hungarian rule of law and so on. so yes, let us settle those questions then. but some would like to see hungary and other central european countries under control, obediently following the wrong directives of brussels given from above according to the explanation of the common rules, but with different biases. it was mentioned here that we are united in diversity, so how has it come about that you want to kick out someone for being so different? we have some different opinions, yes. after 40 years of communist oppression, we are entitled to shape the eu project as well. we experienced totalitarianism already; we experienced the dictating of opinions. there are so many wrong things with europe today: unrealistic federalisation, disrespect of the natural family of one man and one woman and of human dignity, more opposition to the freedom of speech. there are examples in eu member states. prime minister orbán is no threat in comparison to the deformed version of democracy that the left-wing liberals are preaching to the eu states. it is a false gospel, and i ask you: let us deal with that, please.
mr. president, i have no problem criticizing the hungarian government as far as the execution of my mandate is concerned. i am particularly concerned about the allegations of corruption raised by mrs grässle and commissioner timmermans. unfortunately, even after considering these facts, i have to say that the activation of article 7 of the lisbon treaty will not solve these problems. corruption is a problem in all the new member states. the thrust of this report is ideological, not substantive. i have witnessed this in the adoption of the opinion of the committee on women's rights, which i consider to be misleading. it is built on criticism in areas that are disputed even between the conservative and liberal parts of this parliament. this is the case, for example, of the right of a member state to reject the so-called istanbul convention or to define the family and marriage. this right does not fall within the competence of the european union, but is the exclusive competence of the member state. the resolution proposed by mrs sargentini deepens the polarization in the european public sphere. in doing so, the union has more effective tools to ensure that remedies are put in place in specific problem areas. article 7 is intended for a qualitatively different situation and i cannot support a motion to abuse it.
madam president, i would like to take a moment to commemorate all those who lost their lives 17 years ago today, and express my sympathies to the american people. the current strain on transatlantic relations is hard to ignore, but it is important now to work together towards the de-escalation of tensions and to bring back certainty in transatlantic relations. while we cannot compromise on our values and our positions, we can still work together on many issues. with our american partners, we must address global challenges and conflicts, join the fight against electoral interference, and support democratisation and the rule of law in third countries, such as in the western balkans and ukraine. the quality of bilateral relations proves itself in times of distress. we owe it to ourselves and to the entire north atlantic community to find a way out of our strained relations.
madam president, i think three steps are necessary. firstly, china shoud be pulled into the complete system of international order, especially at a time when the trump administration is going to destroy it. secondly, a structure of eu strategic interests should be created, especially in the areas of technology, trade, financial services and militarily sensitive issues. in this context, we need a clear strategy on how to support european values and the european political model. thirdly, cooperation should be enhanced with china, especially in africa, in the areas of investment, infrastructure projects, peacekeeping and conflict resolutions, but based on our social and environmental standards. this report is a welcome step towards those three strategic intentions of the european union.
thank you, madam president. my appreciation goes to mr belder for his competent engagement on this file. we need to fully acknowledge the role that china plays currently on the global scene. we could build a strategic partnership with that country only if we are united in our policy towards it. we can further develop our trade relations, work on issues such as climate change, and also talk seriously about security issues. i am sure that we can benefit from such relations, but we cannot afford to be divided by a particular interest. we need to be realistic about relations with china. china is already inside the eu. its soft power has impact on many countries in the eu in our close neighbourhood. we should be cautious, especially when it comes to its growing acquisition of critical technologies, investments and political influence in europe. finally, i would like to stress the importance of relations with taiwan. we have a responsibility to call for peace and stability in cross-trade relations. therefore, it is important to support all initiatives to resume the official dialogue between beijing and taipei. thank you very much.
in writing. unlike last year, this time european commission president juncker only made a general speech full of vague phrases. he was probably trying to stress the need for unity in the union in the context of the impending brexit. it is precisely the faster closure of the wage gap between the old and new member states of the european union that could increase confidence in the integration project in many countries. a markedly different wage for the same work in different countries does not contribute to eu stability. citizens of several member states, including slovakia, rightly expect the commission, in cooperation with national leaders, to prepare legislation to support wage growth in the eastern part of the union. the commission president's report also failed to address the issues of further strengthening economic cooperation and growth or developing cooperation between countries in the field of european security. it is in our interest, above all, to build a stronger and more consolidated union, better able to adapt to the needs of the people and to take their demands fully into account.
in writing. in his speech, the president of the european commission stressed the importance of european unity for the preservation of peace and further economic growth. but unity also means responsibility and mutual solidarity. it is bad when it is undermined by populists on the one hand and by some harmful proposals from the european commission itself on the other.
mr president, the circular economy today represents a very important opportunity for regions and cities for the period ahead. an alarming aspect of today's linear economy is the overproduction of plastics. fashionable plastics are found on the street, in forests, in water reservoirs, in national parks, and in the seas. they're all around us like unnecessary garbage. the commission's actions in allocating an additional eur 100 million under horizon 2020 to support investments in circular economy solutions should therefore be commended. therefore, we should also introduce multi-level incentives for reducing plastic production in the future cohesion policy. we need to look at the production of plastics as a cycle of production, use after recycling, or safe disposal. but i am all for and against replacing plastics with new kinds of packaging material that have minimal environmental impact, are biodegradable and ultimately are safe for human health.
madam president, i am very pleased that we are in this house again to talk about antibiotic resistance. it's such a serious problem that humanity, and europe, is faced with the growing phenomenon that for some diseases we simply don't have an effective antibiotic that can reliably treat the infection. there are known methicillin-resistant strains of staphylococcus aureus, and if you're just going to get treated, you're going to have surgery for a common abdominal hernia in a hospital, and you're otherwise a healthy person, you can get a resistant strain in the hospital and you can die in this way. and this is happening in our europe, which is so developed. i am very pleased that since we are talking about this serious issue of antibiotic resistance, the european union is already acting and has started to act, and i am also pleased that the commissioner for health is giving this issue a lot of attention. already, €1 billion has been reinvested in science and research into new molecules and promising new chemicals that could help in this area. it is pointed out that many antibiotics are available over the counter or that doctors and pediatricians sometimes prescribe antibiotics for viral diseases under parental pressure, but the main culprits are the meat producers or producers who give massive preventive doses to livestock for free and create widespread antibiotic resistance. this has to stop, and i'm glad that we're united in this chamber and that we can intervene with the commissioner.
for the ppe group. i consider the dual quality report to be of great importance to all citizens. it is based on the natural principle that in our common market the same rules must apply to everyone. this must apply to producers, traders and, of course, consumers. in any measure, we must have the people's interest and consumer protection at the forefront. people can't feel like second-class citizens or third-class citizens based on what they buy in a branded product. i am sure that the brand of the goods is also a guarantee of quality and that every serious manufacturer or dealer must care about this quality. but we're discussing today's report because there have been, and there are, cases where that's not the case. and there are many. i am therefore pleased that this report has been produced in the european parliament and that it has the support of the european commission. the solution, as i see it, and others, is to have a common methodology, to assess the dual quality of products as unfair commercial practices and to strengthen the position of consumer organisations. we need not new institutions to tackle this issue either, but better use of existing institutions. we do not need new regulations, but more intensive cooperation between european and national representatives, and we do not need populism, but above all clear compliance with the rules. the appropriate budget for testing suspicious products and better awareness of the difference between honest and fraudulent products are also important. we cannot put everyone in the same bag, and it is also important to assess each individual case. but if someone is dishonest, we need to make it known to the whole union. i believe that the report presented is a good step towards eliminating dual quality products in our common market and i therefore take the liberty of asking for your support in the form in which we have approved it in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. yes, most cases occur in central and eastern europe, but it is not entirely true that all cases are only in central and eastern europe. such cases also occur among the older member countries of the union. that is why it is important to deal with these cases and it is important that we really have the same rules, that we have the same quality and the same composition of products under the same quality. i am sure that this is also in the interest of all honest producers-traders. we must always protect the consumer and the consumer must be given information to allow him to make his own choices.
for the ecr group. first of all, i would like to thank mrs sehnall not only for her excellent report, but also for the years of patient work without which we would not be talking about the double quality of food in europe today. although the european commission has gradually started to address these problems, the fact remains that national control authorities still do not know what is already considered double quality, how to assess products and how to deal with the differences found. there is no legislation on dual quality at european level and the guidelines and other european commission documents are unclear and often divergent in their conclusions. the european commission also says that dual quality does not endanger the health of citizens, but it is confirmed that the individual ingredients in products in the markets of central, eastern and southern europe often contain less healthy alternatives, more sugar, fat or salt. i therefore fully agree with the rapporteur that dual quality and its assessment should finally be clearly defined and consumers should know what they are buying and also stop feeling that the quality guarantee for certain food and cosmetics brands does not apply to the so-called new member states.
as a doctor, i am very pleased to receive this news. antimicrobial resistance is being called a threat to future generations. statistics say that by 2050, on current trends, antibiotic resistance will claim more lives than all cancer combined. that is why i welcome the initiative taken by the european commission. however, a few facts need to be noted. research and development of new antibiotics requires time, energy, and, above all, a large investment of funds. the correct prescription and accurate use of antibiotics is a conditio sine qua non. the use of antibiotics cannot replace the observance of hygienic standards in either humans or animals. but we must not panic, for failure to administer antibiotics in the indicated cases can cause the death of people who could be helped.
even though consumers in the european union have the same rights, the analyses show that some producers and manufacturers sell products of different quality under the same brand and with deceptively similar appearance. this problem is probably most widespread in the member states that joined the european union after 2004. i have personal experience with various kinds of goods from food, cosmetics, cleaning products, which i buy in france, germany or austria and which are also sold in slovakia under the same brand. that some foods or other goods are different for adults might in some cases be tolerable. but the proliferation of cases of substantial differences in baby food and baby products, even for infants, is absolutely unacceptable. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. i join the call to allow members to be more involved in the oversight of this project.
i'm not going to tell you. i welcome today's debate because 57% of the union's population lives in remote regions and cities depend on rural areas, particularly for land use, food production and the acquisition of raw materials. positive examples of access to the least developed regions in our countries already exist. we need to pay more attention to them. if we are to have a coherent european union agenda for rural, mountain and remote regions, it is essential that it be coordinated with the strategies for lagging and peripheral regions. the commission can draw inspiration from cohesion countries that have successfully put such strategies into practice. i'll give you my country, slovakia, as an example. action plans can describe the main causes of their adverse condition. the factors are often similar: low skills, lack of local resources, lack of local cooperation, etc. i think the commission should take all this into account.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is obvious that the british government, after the completely unnecessary elections, has many problems, is weak and accordingly very hesitant to negotiate. the eu should not rejoice too soon, however, because an agreement is more important to the eu than to the british. exports to the uk are twice as high as imports from the uk. the european union has concluded a free trade agreement with canada, and this should also be possible with the united kingdom. i think it should be possible to separate these four freedoms. if this is possible with other countries, why not with britain? there will be no further referendum in britain. we should finally accept that and show a lot more acceptance. it seems to me that the eu is prepared to shoot itself in the knee just to punish the british.
in writing. brexit is a tragedy. we see what a new form of populism brings. it's important to find a status for britons living in the eu, especially in the event of a hard brexit. as regards ireland, the eu will not accept an agreement that would define a physical border or disrupt the peace process. europe must be a continent that helps people in need. the big shifts in migration policy are a positive impulse for the future. the trans-pacific partnership is about the us building walls, we want to build bridges, the same rules for all, for example on investment and security, or the common definition of terms. investments in the eu are not always based on market principles, but also on the eu's desire to guarantee free and fair trade.
mr president, i believe all of us can agree that we cannot fund an entity without scrutinising it thoroughly. we have obtained well-founded reports that unrwa has been funding school textbooks full of incitement and full of hate, and even eu money is funding these school textbooks. they should meet the un standards of education and promote peace. regretfully, we have seen alarming changes in the palestinian curricula, which are turning in the wrong direction. moreover, in your answer to the written question of the group of meps, commissioner hahn, you admitted that for the current result—oriented framework there are no specific targets linked to the curriculum reform process. humanitarian efforts have become harmful to any kind of peace in the area. we need to make sure the unrwa meets basic conditions in order that further eu funding can be justified. the us cut has made the eu the only major donor of the unrwa. this fact will make the eu more accountable for the outcomes.
in writing. the car manufacturers' emissions scandals of recent years have significantly weakened consumer confidence, which is currently difficult to regain. the greening of the automotive industry is a key means of meeting existing environmental objectives, given its importance in european countries. this is linked to the development of a low-carbon economy and further increasing the competitiveness of european carmakers. there is also a need to promote efficient development of battery and fuel cell technologies. this is part of a comprehensive approach where, in addition to reducing emissions, it is essential to focus on reducing the use of heavy metals, especially lead. with a stronger focus on the use of electric cars or other alternative fuels, a gradual shift from dependence on imported oil towards domestically produced electricity is expected in the future. this should help in further economic growth and increase employment in the electricity generation and supply sector.
i support the commission's proposal for a council directive on the harmonisation and simplification of certain rules in the system of value added tax and the definitive system of taxation applicable to trade between member states. the european union can prevent tax evasion of almost eur 50 billion a year by this measure. the proposal establishes an institute for certified taxable persons which will be recognised by all member states. the national tax authority shall grant this status, upon request, to a person who demonstrates proper taxation, an internal control system and proof of financial capacity. these entities will be considered as reliable taxpayers, which will allow them to use simplified procedures for the recognition and payment of cross-border vat. the mutual cooperation and control between member states, together with the proposed measures, will reduce the administrative burden on businesses and improve vat collection.
i'm not going to tell you. distinguished colleagues. we have to fight poverty. whatever it takes. i propose that we promise every european, including millions of migrants, a minimum income of 100% of the average wage. 60% is definitely not enough for a decent life. let's guarantee this income whether he works or not. let's stop looking at whether someone is lazy, incompetent, industrious. let's guarantee everyone a minimum income of 100% of the average wage. this is how we're going to end poverty right here in the constitution. we will achieve social justice. and we'll end the social exclusion. we'll finally have real communism. we'll learn from north korea. china, cambodia will be envious of us. so much for my contribution to this idle, pointless, utopian debate.
mr president first of all, congratulations to the reporter, anna maria, you did a great job. the protection of personal data is always a very sensitive issue, which is why i welcome this success and support the free movement of data within the european union. i think that unnecessary and excessive restrictions not only affect a lot of jobs, but also violate and restrict the freedom of citizens, and i hope that we will continue on this path and we will also succeed in abolishing geoblocking, that is, blocking media content. this is not only in the interest of tourists and foreign workers, but also of national minorities.
mr president, i quote, ‘if we're supposed to become the nails in the coffin of a tyrant, i'd like to become one of those nails’. these are the words of oleg sentsov, the ukrainian film director jailed in siberia, but they fully apply in their scope to the work of charter 97 and other independent journalists in belarus. they have become uncomfortable nails for the political establishment. the eu made the first sign of goodwill towards belarus in 2016. it’s now time to firmly remind the belarusian authorities to make good on their promise to move forward on human rights issues. one sign of positive development from the belarusian side would be to unblock charter 97, end the intimidation of independent media and journalists, drop the fabricated charges and move towards the enabling of an independent media environment. this is all part of the international and regional human rights instruments adopted by belarus. failure to respect these commitments should result in the eu’s resolute action in belarus.
our main priorities are clear: sustainable growth, innovation, competitiveness, security, combating climate change, the transition to renewable energy, migration, but also a special focus on young people. our development strategies are designed to help us create new quality jobs, improve the quality of life, reduce poverty and social exclusion. the paradox is that, on the one hand, we know where the road to achieving our objectives is leading, and on the other, the council is proposing cuts in those programmes which are intended to increase the competitiveness and innovation of the union's economy. as regards payments, member states must respect the basic rules of economic management and budgetary discipline and fulfil their commitments. at the same time, we must make it clear to citizens that if their country puts money into the common budget, it will save public finances. in the budget negotiations, the council's reluctance to finance priorities it had previously approved is repeated every year. the only solution is to change today's complicated, opaque and unfair system of budget financing for many countries. this is why the monti high group for a new own resources system was set up. it was attended by members of the council, members of the commission and members of the european parliament. they worked for years. they had a great project and agreed on its recommendations. therefore, when drawing up the new multiannual financial framework and the new own resources strategy, no institution should use the excuse of disagreeing with the monti group's conclusions.
in writing. in developing these policies, the emphasis should be on solidarity and the elimination of social and wealth inequalities in society. the economic situation and employment in most euro area countries can be assessed positively in the current period. however, many challenges and inequalities in this area persist. these include differences in the pay of women and men, the wide disparity in pay for the same work in different member states, and youth unemployment. this requires concrete solutions, which, in view of the reluctance to share their social competence, remain in the hands of the representatives of the nation states. the relatively low unemployment rate we are witnessing today is so important, but it cannot be the desired end goal. more focus is needed on creating sustainable and quality jobs at fair value, or ensuring full employment for many disadvantaged groups, including disabled citizens. the regulation should also, in particular, encourage multinational companies operating in the european union to participate in a more rapid convergence of wage levels across member states. indeed, their investments are usually accompanied by large government incentives. the principle of equal pay for equal work should be their condition.
in slovakia, as in the czech republic, we are celebrating the important centenary of the founding of the common state of czechs and slovaks, czechoslovakia. i think it is important to remember that here in the european parliament. after the first world war, the state of two slavic nations arose from the ruins of the multinational habsburg monarchy and the slovaks thus had their own state, in which they could use their mother tongue without restriction, develop their cultural heritage and freely decide on the social functioning of their territory. of course, our coexistence has not been without problems either, but over the past 70 years, we have proved many times that we can resolve our conflicts with peace and discussion. the greatest proof of this special relationship can be considered the division of our two states in peace, which came in the early 90s. it was during this period that it became evident in other parts of europe that hatred, extreme nationalism, and violence could easily infect human hearts. i think we can also take a lesson from czechoslovakia today, because we face many problems together, whether from outside the borders or from within the union. we can and should not blame and punish each other.
last week the world marked the 26th anniversary of the declaration of the international day for the eradication of poverty. we often talk about poverty in this parliament, particularly in relation to third countries. however, poverty, which marginalizes people and robs them of their dignity, exists in the european union and affects millions of our families. poverty is often hereditary. it affects women more than men, as the breakup of the family is a heavy burden for many mothers. overcoming poverty means understanding that family ties, especially the presence of a father and a mother, are important indicators of a child's well-being. the union should therefore support those policies of the member states which seek to strengthen the institution of marriage and the natural family. unfortunately, in recent years, i've had the feeling that he's doing the exact opposite.
madam president, the quiet escalation of the situation in the sea of azov over the past year requires our utmost attention. first of all, while ignoring international law on close and bilateral agreements between ukraine and russia, russia proceeded with the construction of the kerch bridge. this constitutes yet another violation of ukraine’s territorial integrity and aims at limiting economic activity in ukrainian ports. the recent concert of illegal activities might have a trade character, but it has the clear political objectives to endanger ukrainian ports and solidify russian economic and military presence in the azov sea, and by extension the black sea, and to transform the azov sea into an internal lake of the russian federation. we have to be clear and vocal in our opposition to these activities. our condemnation should concern also the overall intensification of the military presence in the black sea, otherwise we risk the opening of yet another front in our neighbourhood, this time with maritime dimensions. this should be prevented.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. my dear mrs mogherini. thank you for your report on the situation with the construction of the drawbridge. i think the black sea is a european sea, and the sea of azov is an integral part of the black sea, which russia cannot unilaterally take over, even under the pretext of building a bridge. this is not only in the interests of ukraine, but also of other eu and non-eu countries. i would just like to say very briefly that i support the proposal to monitor the situation, to have the european commission send a group of experts to assess the concrete economic consequences. measure the cost of traffic jams, delays, harassment of merchant ships, and calculate how much traffic will be reduced in ukrainian ports. i think this data could be useful in our negotiations with russia.
madam president, i would like to start by saying that it remains crucial that the eu support the international criminal court (icc) in investigating repression and crimes in venezuela. there can be no moving forward without seeking justice. in addition to the dire humanitarian situation in venezuela, president maduro’s regime continues to harass and torture political opponents whilst creating an environment of impunity in his country. i deeply regret the orchestrated accusation against the 2017 sakharov prize laureates, which, inter alia, effectively excluded them from competing in future elections. the eu needs to be firm in its rejection of the illegitimate constituent national assembly authorities. once again, our resolution must reiterate that the 20 may elections are illegitimate and not internationally recognised. as a response to the stance by the venezuelan regime, we have adopted additional and revocable sanctions but need to make it clear that further deterioration of democracy will provoke a much stronger reaction from our side.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment, operation and use of the schengen information system (sis) in the field of border controls strengthens the external border protection and internal security of the union. the measures aim at strengthening the system to be able to absorb more data on persons (in particular biometric data) and to make the system technically and informationally secure. the conditions for access to the system for european agencies are clarified and a consultation procedure is introduced, which should, through cooperation between member states, prevent the same third-country national from having different residence status in the member states of the union. the measures should contribute to greater flexibility and efficiency of control authorities at union borders and thus to greater security.
the rapporteur today's vote welcomes the step forward taken by ireland and croatia to join the prüm data exchange system. the protection of the external border of the european union is an urgent and vital matter. today's vote is a message to all the traffickers, smugglers, gang members and terrorists who seek to profit from or harm us, that the network for exchanging information between member states is once again a little wider. and we're sending you a message: we're going to catch you and punish you according to our laws. we will not allow your evil designs to destroy our way of life based on judeo-christian values to become a reality. and i ask god, our father, the lord jesus christ, to bless the european union and its people.
for the ecr group. the fundamental problem of the european union is non-compliance with rules and agreements. schengen, dublin, maastricht, lisbon - virtually every single treaty has been breached in some significant way. i would remind you that article 125 of the lisbon treaty, which states that each country is responsible for its own obligations, was not applicable in the case of greece; article 123 of the lisbon treaty, which states that the european central bank may not buy up public debt, has meanwhile done so for an unimaginable sum of eur 2500 billion. when rules are not followed, the european commission's favourite solution is to invent new rules that are equally unobserved. the rules of the stability and growth pact have been breached more than 150 times in total. 150 times and mr juncker and his predecessor mr barosso did not impose sanctions even once. on the contrary, when asked two years ago why france did not have to comply with these rules for the tenth time, mr juncker replied: "because it is france". it's coming back to him now like a boomerang. italy has submitted a draft budget which is a pure provocation for the other member states, with the comment that mr juncker is no longer taken seriously. of course, italy's behaviour is a laughingstock for all the other member states, so i appeal to you, first of all, please follow the rules, and then come up with new ones.
i'm very happy for this debate today. in my view, we must ask whether the lisbon treaty is really a treaty on the functioning of the european union or, in practice, almost a constitution, but not legally approved by the citizens of the union. we all see that the intention of ever closer union, ever more union - that this idea has cracks. that is why we in the european christian political movement, which is a party in the european parliament, consider it crucial to amend the treaty of lisbon by redefining a strong confederal structure in place of federation. we believe that we need to reform the european union so that it returns to its judeo-christian roots by focusing on the fundamental and primary tasks. we do not want more europe, but a better europe. principles such as subsidiarity, solidarity and diversity are to be matched by values such as freedom, stewardship, responsibility and human dignity. but above all, i want to stress that we must finally give god a place in our legislation and name him as the supreme authority of our european community, because he sets the absolute values of good and evil.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the declining error rate in recent years is undoubtedly good news. the commission deserves credit for this. it is to be hoped that this trend will continue. this could be done, for example, by submitting more cases to olaf. i think 13 out of over 700 is definitely not enough. nevertheless, the work of the auditors is also to be commended in principle. we are therefore calling for the recommendations of the court of auditors to be implemented. it is even more important to apply the value for money principle, i.e. to give preference to projects which have a higher value for money. for example, european taxpayers' money would not have been used to build motorways in greece, which today have minimal traffic. there are certainly many other places where motorways would be better used with the money of the european taxpayer.
mr president, the european economy is under great pressure at the moment. we're in the middle of an economic rivalry between america and china. the global situation is difficult to predict and many industrial enterprises are rightly asking how europe can protect them from such external factors. i recognize that globalization has helped to link the world economy, opening up new opportunities and lifting many people out of poverty. on the other hand, it is essential that fair rules and fair trade principles are also respected at global level, and the commission should therefore consider all options to protect our industries and jobs, especially in areas where there are dumped and unfairly subsidised imports. at the same time, our industry is subject to our own internal rules that bind it in global competition. european competition rules should therefore not be set to disadvantage our businesses on a global scale. for these reasons, the commission should urgently develop an effective industrial strategy to reduce the vulnerability of our businesses.
the rapporteur. it is no accident that i am using my mother tongue today, since i am presenting my report on mother tongue rights. the european union's motto is 'united in diversity', which emphasises respect for diversity as one of the european union's core values. minority rights are not only important for minorities, but their observance and respect is in the interest of all of us. we know that ignoring the rights of minorities leads to hatred, ethnic conflicts and even wars. yes, here on our democratic continent, we have experienced over the last 20 years several ethnic bloodlettings and wars, starting with the balkans and - hopefully - ending with ukraine. the tragic police action and murder of the greek minority in macedonia yesterday was also fuelled by ethnic tension. a well-functioning, strong democracy recognizes this and does everything possible to maintain peace and security. protecting minority rights is one way to do that. i therefore see the eu's minimum institution of minority rights as primarily a peace project that also benefits the majority nations. today, nearly 40 million citizens in europe consider themselves to belong to national or linguistic and cultural minorities. and rightly so, these 40 million people want to preserve their traditions and cultural identity. eu member states generally provide a high level of legal security and comfort for minorities living in their territories, and legal frameworks have been developed in most member states to this end. unfortunately, the eu practice and access to eu services is no longer ideal, and it is often the case that ethnic discrimination is used to inflame tensions between citizens and that the nationality card is used to gain political power, in defiance of the rights declared in international conventions. to prevent these abuses, i have prepared this report with the aim of establishing a minimum of european minority rights that can be called into question. of course, member states will continue to define their own minorities on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. my report and the proposed minimum rights are based on three pillars: the guarantee of educational, cultural and linguistic rights at eu level. because i think the european union is capable of legislating in these three areas. we have respected the exclusive competences of the member states, political rights: territorial self-government and the definition of electoral rights remain within the competence of the member states. i'm very concerned about discrimination, hate crimes, hate speech and the means to overcome them, which is in the interest of all of us. my aim is to enable people belonging to minorities to exercise their fundamental cultural and linguistic rights in their homes and on the streets, without fear and with courage, anywhere in europe. my aim is to ensure that education in minority languages is accepted and of high quality throughout europe, bridging the gap between majority and minority cultures, and promoting mutual understanding, acceptance and support. the treaty on european union provides that 'the union shall respect its cultural and linguistic diversity and shall ensure the preservation and further development of europe's cultural heritage'. if we are really to preserve our european culture and pass it on to future generations, then we have a duty to ensure that the rights of minorities are guaranteed. i ask my colleagues to support my report and to ask the commission to submit its legislative proposal for a minimum eu law as soon as possible.
madam president, in august i asked the council to make two documents available. one of these was the draft eu human rights guidelines on non-discrimination in external action. last week, after two months, my application was officially rejected by the council. the reasons for refusing to make available to the member of the european parliament the guidelines to be followed by the staff of the european external action service state that this would put the delegation under undue pressure from the parties concerned. members of this parliament must be informed of how the principles of the functioning of eu missions in the world are being formed. anyone who considers the interests of a member of parliament to be undue pressure despises parliamentarism and makes fun of us all. i ask the president of parliament to act with all decisiveness.
i have to say, madam president, the european union is facing a major challenge in the coming years. unfortunately, it seems we're missing this opportunity. for example, we might ask ourselves whether it is really necessary to put one third of the budget - about eur 60 billion a year - into the agricultural sector. a 5% cut is ridiculous. we are not in the post-war era when food was scarce, we are in 2018 and we live in an abundance of food. the european union is fighting against waste. australia and new zealand are proving that it is possible to succeed without subsidies. and more than that, by not having the same subsidies for all countries, we are damaging the farms in countries where the subsidies are much lower. in my country, slovakia, slovak agriculture is being systematically and longterm damaged and liquidated. on the other hand, we lack money for much more important things, such as the external protection of our border.
mr president, two weeks ago, as part of the euroscola project, i had a discussion with high school students in a mining region. the livelihoods of several thousand families here depend on coal mining. the students understand very well that if we don't protect the environment, our air will no longer be breathable in this century. they asked me what would happen to the mining families who would lose their jobs. they need to be assured that we are allocating billions of euros to address the social, socio-economic and environmental consequences for those workers and their families who are adversely affected by the transition from coal to clean forms of energy. it is in our common interest that these people should be able to get suitable employment. i promised them that the european union would help solve this problem.
in writing. in her opening speech, the chancellor said that it was difficult to predict the future of the eu. she went on to say that individual, national decisions have an impact on the whole community. in this context, i had questions for the chancellor, but i was not given the floor. my question would be: ms. merkel, you are a staunch supporter of sanctions against russia. therefore, how can you explain germany's decision to cooperate in the nord stream 2 project, where germany will have the main advantage in this project? what would be your position if another member state agreed a similar project with russia? in this context, how do you want to help ukraine on its way to the eu? do you not think that the eu still applies a double standard to the old and new member states? i would also like to cite as an example the location of a pharmaceutical agency where you made a decision in favour of the netherlands despite the fact that the conditions known in advance were not met. i could give you more examples of this. how to answer these questions to voters in next year's european elections?
mr president, the geopolitical importance of georgia and moldova to the european union is enormous. however, the eu still has very little awareness of geopolitical aspects. i'm in a mood. until a few years ago, there was a very pro-american atmosphere in georgia. today, it is a model and aspiration of the eu for georgia. i therefore welcome the concern of the european parliament and the european commission for the implementation of the agreements. but let's not forget that he has geopolitical interests in moldova, as well as georgia, russia, and turkey. by assessing implementation, we will try to bring both countries closer to the eu rather than entangling ourselves in their internal political and inter-party struggles. let's try to give both countries clearer guarantees, security and economic. if we can do that, then we can be critical in the implementation of the association agreements.
mr president, i will speak on moldova. the association agreement and dcfta entered into force two years ago, yet the eu needs to remind political leaders in moldova that these are binding agreements with a clear commitment for major reform processes and with an obligation to respect core democratic values. the developments in 2016 have given us a mixed picture. on the one hand, moldova has acted in reforms relating to financial sector and has high alignment to the cfsp and cooperation csdp missions. positive advances were also noted in regards to relations with tiraspol. these positive steps were overshadowed, unfortunately, by a general decline in the rule of law and fundamental freedoms. the most obvious problems concern the electoral reforms adopted against the recommendation of the venice commission, and the 28 june invalidation of the local elections in chișinău. while i support the call for the creation of an eu support group for moldova, i would also like to recall the contents of articles 2 and 455 of the association agreement.
madam president, we hear regularly that the migration pact is non-binding, that it is completely non-binding. indeed, article 7 says that this pact is non-binding. but i ask you, what is the point of signing a non-binding pact? what is the point, then, of a covenant that is nonbinding and does not impose any obligations? in fact, the word "covenant" occurs 86 times in the text itself! we're going to sign a non-binding pact that contains the word "commitment" 86 times! the fact is that we are entering into a strong political commitment, and if a country wants to behave as a reliable and predictable partner, then it will have to take some further steps in the future under this pact, which may not be uncommitted at all. only the citizens of the country concerned can decide who will live on their territory. not some pact or officials in brussels through some mandatory quotas, but just citizens. and in this, i really do have my fingers crossed for the current italian minister of the interior, who said, "enough!"
mr. chairman, salmen abedi was a european citizen of libyan origin who last may committed a suicide attack at a concert in manchester. this terrorist act claimed 22 lives and injured 139 people, many of them teenagers and children. he was previously in syria and returned to europe with the help of the british royal navy during a rescue mission. his surveillance by british intelligence on suspicion of links to isis was suspended a month before the manchester attack. if this hasty rescue attempt led to so much misery, and i also have evidence that over 88 000 schengen and medical visas were issued to libyan citizens by malta, why are we thinking of introducing another 'travel document' that allows people to enter the european area without a thorough assessment of their application? this proposal is dangerous, unnecessary and built on a very weak legal basis. the result will be an even greater overload of thousands of requests.
in writing. the european parliament asks the commission to present a legislative proposal on european humanitarian visas by march 2019. today, different national arrangements and procedures apply in the member states. the common legislative framework shall establish a minimum range of common standards for the granting, issuing and administration of humanitarian visas. the uniform procedures shall support a coordinated union policy and shall eliminate organised crime in trafficking. humanitarian visas should concern exclusively persons seeking international protection on the grounds of having been subjected to torture or other inhuman and degrading treatment. humanitarian visas should be issued as a single sticker registered in the visa information system. they should allow their holders to enter the territory of the issuing member state solely for the purpose of lodging an application for international protection in that member state. the granting of humanitarian visas shall not be automatically applied to the family members of applicants. these may, after assessment, be subject to an asylum policy taking into account the national rules of the member states. i therefore consider it important that the future regulation consistently defines humanitarian visas and respects the separation of humanitarian visas from other visas of the asylum policy, which must continue to take into account the rules of the member states.
the rapporteur of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, consulted. madam president, the single market for electronic communications is at the heart of the digital economy and it is therefore essential to strengthen the electronic communications sector and provide high-quality connectivity in all sectors of the european economy. berec shall in particular aim to improve the harmonisation of legislation and strengthen the independence of national regulatory authorities. i am convinced that the current institutional set-up, based on the independence of the national regulatory authorities from the commission and other union institutions, allows berec to provide independent and expert advice and to continue to cooperate with other union institutions. berec may, through its opinions and recommendations, advise union bodies and national regulatory authorities on how to make more efficient use of electronic communications, highlight shortcomings in their use, monitor consumer protection and also ensure cooperation between other regulatory authorities. i therefore support maintaining the dual management structure and it is important that the composition of berec is composed of representatives of the different national regulatory authorities, which contributes to better regulation between member states and thus promotes the development of the union market for citizens.
mr. president, democratic elections must be independent of any interference by other parties. as we saw in the brexit referendum, the us presidential election, or the dutch referendum on the association agreement with ukraine, cyberattacks, disinformation and propaganda can completely distort public opinion. i am therefore pleased that the european union is starting to fight such attacks, and i appreciate the creation of centres that monitor and respond to cyberattacks. in this area, however, we should take inspiration from the civil activists who alone sometimes, but very effectivelyfight in hybrid warfare. an example of such commitment is slovak ján benčík, who last year was awarded the european citizen's prize. disinformation and its consequences can permanently damage democracy, and defending against it is not only legitimate but also very necessary. as in the past, we can expect an offensive next year during the elections to the european parliament to attack the european project and to support parties and movements that want to destroy it. the only response to such activity is to tell the truth and systematically expose lies. we need to talk more about what the european union brings to people and countries and what our continent would look like without integration. only truth and close contact with people is the cure for the attacks and lies that are spread in cyberspace. let us not, therefore, be afraid to call out lies and expose the authors of misinformation. we in the european parliament have that responsibility. the closer we are to people, the less impact misinformation and hoaxes will have.
mr president, colleagues, in the recent years we have found ourselves responding to untruths, half truths, fake news and propaganda. misinformation and disinformation dominate and penetrate our daily lives. in an environment more susceptible to foreign interference in our elections, we must find ways how to be proactive and not only retroactive. one of the most important issues in fighting foreign influence in european elections is to strengthen the media environment in our member states, but also in candidate countries and in the neighbourhood. this goes hand-in-hand with the robust respect for freedom of media and for the work of our journalists. looking back at the work of jan kuciak or daphne caruana galizia, we owe it to all the journalists who put their lives on the frontline in order to report on issues of interest to the public. we owe it to the journalists in ukraine, belarus, moldova, serbia and in other countries; we owe it to our own societies. political leaders in some member states have dishonoured the journalistic profession by public statements against journalists. i strongly denounce these practices. all eu states must protect the personal safety and the livelihoods of investigative journalists and whistleblowers, and not only protect them but champion their causes as well, and in upcoming european elections i think that without dedicated journalists and a free media environment, it will be difficult to protect fully our own democracies.
in writing. repeated attempts and experience with interference in elections and electoral campaigns show that democratic processes need to be rigorously protected. this concerns in particular the targeted limitation of mass discrediting campaigns based on outright nonsense and disinformation in the online environment, often disseminated from abroad. the use of lies and misinformation in political campaigns is nothing new. however, they spread faster and their impact is much wider, especially in the social networking environment. fake news has become a kind of weapon that threatens our society. we must respond to ever-evolving cyber threats by strengthening security. the sole purpose of spreading harmful content on the internet is to create doubt, hostility and division in society.
madam president, we occasionally hear reports from the islamic world that a raped woman is being punished for allowing herself to be raped. and we in europe say to ourselves: "well, this kind of absurdity, it simply could not happen here!" but let's see what happens. an official, the head of the statistical office, is going to be convicted for or has been convicted for telling the truth. and we're still going to have a serious discussion about whether or not he should have. and whether he said it was going to be 15 percent or 13 percent. greece is in the deepest possible trouble, not because of this mr. georgemus, who told the way things are, but because of those governments that have put the country in debt as if there was no tomorrow. i just want to remind you that we're talking about italy's plan to run a 2.4% deficit, and that's why there's a perfectly good fire on the roof! and here we're talking about whether it should have been 9, 6, 13 or 15. that's what makes this discussion so terribly absurd.
mr president, i supported the report because i believe that, once the proposed measures have been adopted, rail travel will become more attractive and preferred by consumers. i am pleased that the report of the ep and the council on rail passengers' rights and obligations also sets out, among other things, the legal framework to adapt rail infrastructure to persons with reduced mobility, thus allowing them to be completely independent of railway stations and trains. i agree with the rapporteur that improvement and modernisation of the railway sector should remain an enduring objective for the sector, including consumer protection. i think it is really important to attract new passengers to rail transport and to relieve the burden on road transport. in my country, slovakia, the government introduced free rail travel for students and pensioners, and this measure has significantly increased the number of rail passengers. this measure could also serve as a model for other member states, making more efficient use of the rail network, significantly reducing co2 and contributing to a better quality of life.
mr president, train delays have recently become a common phenomenon not only in slovakia but in several european union countries. strengthening passenger rights is therefore perhaps even more timely in our country than elsewhere. i support greater awareness of passenger rights, better assistance to people with reduced mobility and, in particular, increased compensation for those passengers whose train is late. the quality of rail transport is measured by passenger satisfaction. failures are always possible, but the way in which the carrier manages these failures also determines the public's confidence in rail transport. i am glad that the new legislation will help him to do so, and that is why i supported the proposal.
mr president, even though we address the gender equality of women and girls every year, the results we achieve in the eu are insufficient. in this wide-ranging activity on care services, i want to draw attention to the lack of public services, which at high cost have a negative impact on children from low-income families and put at a disadvantage not only children from an early age, but also parents, especially the mother, in her integration into active working life. we must therefore make every effort to ensure that measures for adequate remuneration in these services predominate in national programmes in particular. member states need to re-examine this area, which mainly involves women, as their career choice. on the other hand, i welcome the effort to commit the commission to creating a legal framework for minimum standards for workers in the care sector. to invest appropriately in the well-being of the people who provide these services, in the good education of these people, to create continuously good living conditions for the people cared for. all this work is on the shoulders of women, and that's the point: to get the pay for work to a level that eliminates the 16% pay gap and the 40% pension gap between men and women as soon as possible.
mr president, the rapporteur's text confirms many of the points i have been making for a long time. some of the proposed measures would require a longer discussion, but many could be a valuable source of inspiration for member states. this includes, for example, the proposal that the period of unpaid care be counted by those who provide it in the years worked for entitlement to a pension. the union's role in the social field of care should be to support member states in respecting and protecting human dignity in their policies. unfortunately, this document repeatedly goes further and calls for the union to adopt these policies itself, even though it does not have the competence to do so. that's why i abstained in the final vote.
mr president, i too have been hesitant about this report, although it has a number of good points. the report makes a good case for the need to address the development of the accessibility and quality of care services for citizens. but the loving care of family members will never be replaced by the cool stone houses of social services, even if they do a good job. we should therefore support families in this care and give them the opportunity to receive the outside help that they often really need. this professional assistance must be both financially and practically available. institutionalization should follow only after home care has failed. but i must emphasize that women have an irreplaceable role in caring for people. in some cases, the husband may even stop the service. i myself have acted as a nurse, and one of my three sons is disabled. but it must be said that the dignity of the person entrusted with these services must be preserved, taking into account various factors. for example, it's not possible in the name of gender equality to ask men, for example, sons, to repackage their sick and aging wives' mothers, because they'll feel really bad.
mr president, this is a really good report on serbia. i would like to thank david mcallister. the report strikes the right balance with points that underline the progress serbia has made over the last year, but also the areas where we would like to see more done. the accession process should not be taken for granted. it’s a chance to reform, not only in terms of technical requirements, but also to adjust to the values and principles of the european union. we have seen good progress in some reforms. yet there are still many key areas where more effort is needed. let us be clear: the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary is one of the fundamentals of the accession process. serbia needs to engage seriously in these reforms, strengthening the accountability, impartiality, professionalism and overall efficiency of the judiciary. i would also like to underline the need to improve the atmosphere concerning freedom of the media.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, kosovo has seen turbulent political months. while some issues have moved forward, not much overall progress has been achieved. we are expecting more from the political leaders of kosovo. we need to see a genuine commitment to the reform process, especially in the rule of law and the fight against corruption. however, political polarisation, and the lack of consensus and efficient work of the kuvendi hinders progress on eu—related issues. moreover, escalating tensions between belgrade and pristina resulted in unprecedented tariffs and the waste of very valuable time in reaching the agreement. finally, the last reporting period in kosovo has been marked by the fulfilment of requirements for a visa—free regime. this was confirmed by the commission in july and by this house in september 2018. i will, therefore, appeal to the council, and especially to the austrian presidency, to recognise this progress and move forward with granting a visa—free regime for kosovo.
madam president, may i extend my congratulations to ivo vajgl on this report. macedonia made good progress over the last year, which has been well noted in the report. i am pleased to see the country moving ahead with many important initiatives and reforms. also i would like to congratulate the government on the agreement with greece. i strongly believe these efforts will open the doors for closer integration of the country and involve the european union and nato. at the same time the macedonian government needs to concentrate on continuous reforms in the area of the judiciary with the implementation of the judicial reform strategy, in the economy and in the fight against corruption and organised crime. it will be important not to lose this pace and come up with concrete results and records of accomplishments.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i want to express my appreciation for the work of mr fleckenstein on this report and the very good cooperation of the shadow rapporteurs. i welcome the commission's recommendation for opening the accession negotiations as well as the council decision to reevaluate the progress made by albania next year. albania has achieved good progress in the implementation of justice reform, which is crucial for the further integration process. it has also proved its readiness to go through other difficult reforms. this progress was possible only through constructive political dialogue and cooperation with all the major political parties from the government and the opposition. therefore, i can only strongly encourage all political actors in albania to work together on the consolidation of reforms across all five priorities. i hope this will be also the case in upcoming electoral reforms. albania is indeed our key partner in the region. we should fully appreciate its full alignment with eu common foreign and security policy and active participation in the regional initiatives.
madam president, i would like to thank charles tannock for his report – unfortunately, his last one, and i think we should also thank him for many years of personal devotion to the country. montenegro is advancing towards eu accession at a steady pace with the support of its citizens for the strategic goal of the country. despite the fact that a partial boycott of the parliament has concluded, a fully functioning legislative branch with effective oversight of the executive is essential to every modern democracy. i also strongly condemn the intimidation, smear campaigns and verbal and physical attacks against journalists. we reiterate and this report calls on the authorities to investigate previous attacks. last but not the least, i would also like to praise montenegro for its full alignment to the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and common security and defence policy (csdp). since our last discussion on montenegro in this house, the country has become a nato member. the country should also be applauded for its constructive and positive approach to regional cooperation.
madam president, russia's attacks in the sea of azov against the ukrainian navy are meant to intimidate us. they're supposed to show how strong russia is, that it can attack the weakest at any time, and that it doesn't have to respect international law or its own laws. in reality, though, it is a sign of weakness. putin is weak and a coward. he's failed pension reform, people are rioting, the economy is falling, and so is his popularity. it is noteworthy that, on the contrary, the european union is perceived more positively than negatively in russia, for the first time since march 2014. that's why putin has resorted to the proven weapon of cowards, and that is brute force. we must condemn this resolutely and show that europe will not be intimidated by putin. it is important to expand sanctions and to punish those directly responsible for this attack. ukraine is a sovereign state like any other. we must stop her and help her, because stability and peace in ukraine is stability and peace in all of europe.
in writing. the brexit negotiations have shown that the european union can work together quickly and effectively, even at the highest level. the european council endorsed the agreement on the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union and issued a statement setting out the framework for the future relationship between the european union and the united kingdom. we aim to maintain the closest possible partnership with the uk in the future. we realise that brexit is ultimately not in the best interests of either party. the united kingdom rejects the customs union because it wants to have its own trade agreements and it does not want to be part of the common single market anymore because it does not want to maintain the principle of the four freedoms. however, we must not forget that there are many areas where our cooperation is essential for both sides. such areas are, for example, security, commerce, or science and research. at a time when russia is visibly strengthening its influence in the countries of the former soviet union, it is precisely in the field of security that cooperation with the united kingdom is crucial for our future.
in writing. i see the global framework for safe, orderly and regular migration as a serious political document that should have been a guarantee for all the states represented in the un that the migration problem in the world is coordinated, that it has a common platform and that the states together face the migration problems that are everywhere in the world. unfortunately, in addition to the good proposals, the document also contains points which are controversial and therefore unacceptable to many states. while the preamble to article 7 states that the global legal framework is a non-binding framework, the back-end to article 9 states that this global framework sets out our common understandings, common obligations, shared responsibilities and unity of purpose in relation to migration, so that it is beneficial for all. the document has 23 objectives, some of which we can agree with, but some of which are unacceptable. surely everyone agrees that adverse incentives and structural factors that force people to leave their country should be minimised. on the other hand, there is the issue of integration of migrants and their inclusion, their education, their financial support, which should only be won by countries that need migrants for their economy. the un should recognise that the divergence in the assessment of the document is a serious issue and should therefore seek compromise proposals as soon as possible, as the problems of migration need to be addressed jointly.
in writing. women and girls with disabilities are particularly vulnerable to the threat of discrimination and violence. statistics available show that women with disabilities are many times more likely to be exposed to violence or some form of abuse than the general population. this is why we need to create effective standards to protect citizens with disabilities and a functioning system for their active participation in everyday life. it is also very important to promote simplification and better access of disabled people to new technologies. the full integration of women and girls with disabilities into society requires the support and participation of family, colleagues or employers. the basis for change is to act in the circle of those closest to them. in view of the upcoming european elections, the active approach of the european commission towards disabled citizens is indispensable. so that women with disabilities can not only vote, but above all, more easily apply for the trust of the people in elections.
madam president, i appreciate the efforts to address the issues of women with disabilities in our society. the support and complementarity of the social security and social protection policies of the member states are among the tasks of the union. but if we really want to empower women and girls with disabilities, we must first protect their human dignity. unfortunately, we don't find a single mention of it in the resolution. instead, it promotes unrestricted access to sexual and reproductive rights facilities and services, including access to abortion. the member states, not the european union, have competence in this area. i couldn't support that. human life, its dignity and the principle of subsidiarity are among the union's fundamental values. its resolutions in parliament should respect them.
in writing. cancer remains one of the most significant health risks for workers in the eu. unfortunately, it's the most common cause of occupational death. our response must therefore be to prevent workers from being exposed to the chemicals that can cause it. the restrictions and tightening of the limit values concern a number of carcinogens. however, a simple example is the limitation of workers' exposure to the exhaust gases from combustion engines, which are also highly carcinogenic to humans. the protection of workers' health is essential throughout their working lives and great emphasis should be placed in particular on improving prevention. in addition to the employees themselves, this benefits employers, the european economy as a whole, and reduces the cost of necessary healthcare.
madam president, 70 years ago the universal declaration of human rights was adopted, which is an inalienable right of every human being under both natural and divine law. this declaration is one of the foundations on which our world has been rebuilt after the most terrible war. it is important to return to it, to learn to understand and respect it properly. we don't find in it a right to abortion, only a right to life. yet today we who refuse to have abortions are accused of not respecting the right of a woman, while the right of an unborn child to life is called into question. and christians who exercise the right to conscientious objection are part of a society that is criticized. to deny the right to life to an unborn child is to question the absolute value of life. and a society that does not value every human life will sooner or later become inhuman. let's not forget that.
in writing. the fight against terrorism must be the permanent task of all democratic countries of the world. the safety and protection of the public must be a priority, to which all other interests must be subordinated. the current terrorist attacks concentrated in europe increasingly call for the need to review all the rules and standards governing and punishing this activity. attention should also be focused on arms trafficking, including access to arms. all acts must have, in particular, preventive effects in such a way as to give rise to sufficient respect and to deter terrorist acts. europe must be a safe zone for all its citizens. however, in the fight against terrorism, the union must also take into account the rise of extremism and radicalisation, especially among young people, within member states. lack of education, lack of suitable employment, and the spread of false and misleading news cause frustration among young people. that's what terrorist and extremist organizations use. in the fight against terrorism, the union and its member states must therefore not forget young people and the creation of conditions for their socioeconomic integration into society and their personal development.
in writing. the economic partnership agreement (epa) between the european union and japan is of great strategic importance. it is the most important bilateral trade agreement the eu has ever concluded, representing almost a third of the world's gross domestic product (gdp), almost 40% of world trade and more than 600 million people. i am convinced that the agreement represents a balanced and comprehensive outcome of significant economic value for the eu, its citizens and businesses. i voted in favour of the report because the agreement provides for new market opportunities, especially for sectors which do not usually benefit much from trade agreements (e.g. agriculture). the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiary is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure the continuation of the aid. the agreement also fully respects the right to regulate and protect public services. i believe that the agreement has the potential to contribute to the creation of sustainable growth and decent jobs, while promoting union values and upholding high standards in areas such as food safety, environmental protection and labour rights.
mr president, thanks and congratulations to the rapporteurs. this year showed once again that we face many challenges on the international scene, yet we can hardly fulfil our ambitions if we do not have control over our closest neighbourhoods. this goes for our strategies and actions in the eastern and southern neighbourhood and also for our relations and influence on the countries of the western balkans. it is imperative for the eu to be surrounded by stable and like-minded partners. we need to stand behind the values of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, as the core of our external policies. be it in the balkans where the situation might deteriorate, be it in our eastern neighbourhood where the situation is already tense, or be it in the south where we are facing constant challenges, we need to bring more credibility and confidence to our eu external policy.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. i'm sorry, but i'm not going to be able to help you. my fellow officers. perhaps the most unusual thing about today is that we are nearing the end of parliament's five-year mandate, so we can look back not just on the activities of one year but on the whole period. i would like to make it clear to everyone that the european people's party has a positive view of the work of the european ombudsman's office. i would like to thank the ombudsman and her staff for their consistent work. the difference between us, between the different groups - we have heard some criticism of the european people's party from both groups here - is that if there are problems in the european union, and there are, then it is not certain that the european ombudsman's office should all be investigated now. we know and we should know that the european ombudsman does not work in an easy environment, we should know that he does not always find the right partners to cooperate with, we also see that, unfortunately, not everyone follows the ombudsman's recommendations to the level we would like, but this is not the office of the ombudsman. it's probably a more serious, systemic problem. i would ask my colleagues to try to use other channels and other opportunities to try to reduce these drawbacks that my colleagues have spoken about in this room. and i assure everyone that the european people's party will be a positive partner in this. i would also like to say that it is very important that we support the institution of the ombudsman politically, and that is why the european people's party will support this report and support the further work of the office. and it is very important that citizens see that the ombudsman sees problems and deals with them, and that mps support this activity.
deputising for the rapporteur. – mr president, the petitions we receive in the committee on petitions (peti) help us to better assess the impact that eu legislation has on people’s daily lives and to find loopholes and problems with the implementation of eu legislation. by acting as a bridge between citizens and institutions, the committee on petitions can contribute to both the creation of better legislation and helping people in their everyday lives. the number of petitions received per year is rather constant, even if it is important to note that the petitions received during 2017 was the lowest number during this mandate. however, the new system put in place via the peti portal, which allows citizens to support existing petitions has increased greatly this past year – up from 6 000 users who supported a petition in 2016 to 15 000 users who supported a petition in 2017. this is a very positive trend which means that citizens can show they have support for an issue without having to file a petition by themselves. it was therefore an important milestone when the petitions network was launched in march 2017. it serves as a useful tool for better follow-up on petitions in parliamentary and legislative work, increases the visibility for the petitions received within the house, and intensifies cooperation with colleagues in the other committees. the main area of concern of the petitions received during 2017 were environmental matters such as such as water and waste management, and preservation. this demonstrates the need for proper environmental legislation and implementation. other areas of concern were fundamental rights, especially voting rights and children’s rights, the free movement of persons, and social affairs such as working conditions. the committee on petitions had discussions on petitions covering these subjects in various committee meetings during 2017.the work in the committee on petitions is very rewarding, due to the direct contact with citizens. it’s a constant reminder of the results of the legislation that we are working on, and for whom we write the laws. it’s both interesting and demanding to meet the various petitioners who come to the committee and talk about their problems. we cannot always solve the citizens’ problems but we can at least raise awareness of their concerns. we can all always do better and together we should strive to improve our citizens’ support even further. the chair of the committee on petitions, ms cecilia wikström, looks forward to continuing this work together with her colleagues until the end of the mandate. finally, the chair of the committee is very pleased with the work done in the committee on petitions and the results achieved together. she would like to thank all the colleagues and the secretariat of the committee on petitions for the good cooperation and work done during 2017.
deputy rapporteur - mr president, i have to go. if you'll excuse me, i'll use my native tongue. having been asked by the european people's party to speak on this subject, let me sum up my own and the european people's party's views on three points and then conclude this debate from the position of president of the commission. first of all, i would like to emphasise once again to all my colleagues that the committee on petitions is the only committee in this house that has direct contact with the citizens. it is very important how we present ourselves when we engage with citizens and when we try to implement solutions to the problems they raise. i would therefore like to ask the european commission, and i would also ask the other committees, to give the peti committee more prestige, to take the peti committee's requests seriously. i think that the good work that has been done so far can be improved, and let us not forget that the petit commission can also act as the conscience of the european union, because when there are problems and citizens turn to us, it is also a sign of trust. the other thing, mr president, is that i come from a small country in eastern europe, slovakia, and i am one of the representatives of a small community there, the hungarian community, which makes up 10% of the country. i was also deputy prime minister of slovakia on two occasions, so i can judge the activities of the agencies and i can also judge the opinions and requests of the citizens. so i consider it one of my tasks, and i'm very happy that several of my colleagues in the committee have joined me, to strengthen people's legal awareness, to strengthen their civic awareness. if they can put a petition together and stand up for their rights, i think it makes europe stronger, because in europe we need strong citizens. and the third thing, mr president, if i may - and now as vice-president of the committee, on behalf of the committee - i would like to thank my colleagues in the committee for their cooperation, i would like to thank them for their support of the plenary session of parliament. this february something unprecedented happened: on the proposal of the committee on petitions, a short resolution was adopted on the protection of indigenous minorities, for example, and i would like to thank you for your support. i'd also like to thank the secretariat for their work. the head of the secretariat is now going to be reassigned to another position, leaving the secretariat to mrs. virpi. allow me to thank virpi for her work. and i would like to ask that in future there should be excellent cooperation in the committee, not based on political considerations but on the discussion of the problems at hand.
as has become the unfortunate rule in this election season, the 2017 annual report on human rights in the world presents a very distorted picture of what human rights need to be protected. several of the requirements contained in the adopted text go beyond the competences conferred on the union in the european treaties. perhaps most surprisingly, the draft report also included a reference to the controversial yogyakarta principles, a document drafted in the context of the un but repeatedly rejected by the un general assembly, the un human rights council and other intergovernmental institutions. i strongly protest against such attempts to promote false and misleading ideas about the human being and his nature in eu human rights policies and therefore did not support the report.
