because of environmental concerns, we have written into the paris agreement that we will make ambitious moves forward in this area, and in the clean energy package, where we talk about renewable sources, where we talk about energy saving, where we talk about governance in the energy union, we are working in that direction. i am convinced that we can make a compromise which is both realistic and ambitious, which means that we will have the financial instruments to do this, to support innovation, research in this direction, and that this is the way forward. it is essential to involve citizens, municipalities and the economy, because we will not be the ones to regulate this green, clean energy, but citizens, citizens and the economy. it takes an active role of the individual, but at the same time i see in this package an opportunity for the countryside, where we have a huge amount of rooftop solar, the possibility of wind power, biomass is being created here, both in the forests and in the fields, and in this we have to look for this ambitious and realistic target and achieve this clean package.
member of the commission. madam president, happy new year. madam president, let me start by thanking mr cozzolino for his report. the commission welcomes all efforts to provide an analysis for all the eu's macro-regional strategies the danube, the baltic, the alpine and the adriaticionian. i believe your work complements the report published by the commission one year ago, and indeed we share the same belief that the success of all four macro-regional strategies requires continuous commitment and, of course, the active participation of all relevant actors and administrations. i sometimes get the impression that the steering wheel is still in the hands of the commission, but when it comes to implementation, you know very well that the ball should be in the court of the participating countries. it is a question of political ownership. this means pooling together, as we said, all efforts and resources, be they human, administrative or financial, to translate the commitment into delivery of concrete projects on the ground. it is therefore crucial that participating countries and regions take political ownership of their respective strategies. having said that, i think we can all agree that over the last few years the four macro-regional strategies have started to instil a true culture of territorial cooperation. that is what i felt every time i was involved, because i participated in all the annual forums of the macro-regional strategies. last november i was in munich at the annual forum of the eu strategy for the alpine region. i witnessed the willingness of all actors present to make a true difference through their cooperation. so it gave me hope that macro-regions can improve the implementation of european union policies and territorial cohesion. this means that we need to make sure that the objectives of each macroregional strategy are embedded in national priorities. for example, for the alpine region, 80 cohesion programmes cover the alpine territory. these programmes can support the objectives of the alpine strategy, but they are often implemented in isolation. so i call on you, honourable members of the european parliament, to pass on the message in your respective countries and constituencies that all programmes should go in the same direction. as rightly underlined by mr cozzolino in his report, macro-regional strategies can only thrive if they are rooted in a long-term process. thank you for your attention. i am ready to respond to your comments and requests.
on behalf of the ppe group. thank you for your words, and thank you to my colleague cozzolin for his excellent cooperation in the preparation of the report. the four macro-regions, namely the baltic, danube, alpine and adriatic-ionian macro-regions, are macro-regions that encompass 18 eu member states and also 8 non-eu countries. it is important that rich countries are represented here, as are a number of countries in the alpine region, as well as the poorest countries in the western balkans. they learn about the landscapes of cooperation, the cultures of cooperation, they solve major environmental problems, economic problems, and in the western balkans, they learn about the principles of the european union and how to cooperate even where it has been more difficult in history. the baltic is the strategy that has the longest way to go and we can learn from it that we need to continue and empower the countries to really get fully involved in the work of these macro-regions, together with the regions, the municipalities, the people, but also to focus on achieving the goals and on the other hand to see if there is any need to establish a new macro-region.
your honor, i have mixed feelings about the outcome of the december summit. i welcome the concrete decisions taken on brexit, the creation of pesca, the russian agency. but on the other hand, i regret the lack of vision of the leaders towards the current challenges of migration. the conclusions did not mention asylum and migration policy. you, mr tusk, president of the council, spoke of the creation of a fund for africa, and so did president juncker in this debate. solidarity and responsibility of all countries are key, but they are not, people do not see progress. you, the governments, have the responsibility for an ambitious reform of immigration policy by the summer of this year. and here in the european parliament we will insist on the same as we have done in preserving schengen, which is sadly slowly disintegrating before our eyes. the european commission proposal currently on the table seeks to literally legalise the currently existing illegal practice of individual countries that have been carrying out internal border controls for more than two years, rather than the commission initiating proceedings for breach of european law. and, colleagues, as long as we talk about the rule of law, respect for european values, solidarity, and at the same time allow ourselves to be violated, i'm afraid people won't believe us. and it pains me that this is happening to us more and more, so i sincerely hope that this year we convince the europeans that we are working for them and that the link is our common project, that it unites us and strengthens us where we have common challenges.
so today we started to change the rules for european fisheries, but the question i have is whether we have done enough with this vote today. i myself, of course, did not support this document, mainly because i lack the objective criteria, both in the environmental, social and economic fields, to ensure that jobs in the fisheries sector are not lost, while at the same time protecting marine fish stocks, which are seriously threatened in many seas. i am glad that we have banned electric fishing, but i think we should be much stricter with the so-called trawls, which are permanently damaging not only the seabed but also the fish life, and i think we would still need more dialogue to get a better text than the one presented today.
in 2016, we welcomed with excitement and relief the historic peace agreement and a new era of peace and harmony in colombia. we also welcomed the start of implementation of the agreed. there's been a lot of work done, but it's not finished. i would like to emphasize that this is not just a project of one colombian government or one of the coalitions, it is the responsibility and future of all of colombia and this project should be committed to by every government coalition. therefore, no political change in the structure of colombian politics should overshadow or jeopardise the full implementation of the peace agreement. it must be carried out in the spirit in which it was designed and not with faith in its authenticity. above all, colombia must not take steps that would lead to the old state of violence and fear that was overcome by the peace agreement. of course, there were problems with the implementation. they must be approached with wisdom and sensitivity, but not with the intention of breaking the agreement. only partial implementation would not lead to the final goal. i support any assistance that the european union can provide for implementation. today, i am pleased to see that we are so united in our view of continuing the peace and reconciliation process in friendly colombia.
we have already discussed iran in december, and we are discussing it again in january for another reason, namely the terrible defeat of the theocratic regime over those who would like more democracy and more freedom in iran and, above all, the abolition of the death penalty. we have already stressed in december that our relationship with iran cannot be based solely on an assessment of whether or not iran is complying with the terms of the nuclear agreement. european citizens demand a comprehensive approach to iran, that is to say that the european union must not ignore the systematic violation of human rights and freedoms, that it must not ignore the ballistic missile programme which threatens not only israel but also the european union and its member states, and that we must use all diplomatic means to put effective pressure on the iranian regime to finally become a factor for peace and stability in the region.
mr. prime minister, you have an extraordinary understanding for the continuing expansion in the western balkans. we agree that this is a very fragile area. yesterday's murder of respected serbian politician oliver ivanovic shook the region. i offer my condolences to his family and i urge the authorities to clarify the circumstances of the assassination as soon as possible. this brutal act has confirmed how far we are indeed from the rule of law in this region. young people are leaving the balkans in large numbers today and the region needs an opportunity, but let us admit that the rule of law is also at stake in the union and it will be difficult to convince the balkans to uphold the rule of law if we cannot do so in the union. if it is a question of respecting an arbitration agreement between slovenia and croatia which could seriously jeopardise further expansion into the balkans, or hungary, poland. in the case of poland, i call on you to be decisive in applying article 7 of the treaty for breach of the rule of law. only by respecting the fundamental values, as you said, will we be able to coexist.
mr president, i would like to say the following to the taoiseach. more than a thousand years ago, irish monks reached slovenians and other peoples in central europe. today you are the first prime minister to speak about the future of europe in the european parliament. my congratulations on your – and ireland’s – strong european spirit. you used three key words: heart, soul and citizens. we can make progress only if the european project is supported by european citizens in all member states. prime minister, we can agree on many concrete projects, but first of all we need a strong and uniting european narrative. what could, in your opinion, inspire and motivate european citizens for more europe? on brexit, i don’t believe in this expensive and hazardous exercise. british citizens decided in the first referendum without knowing the consequences. they have a right to know the consequences and to have the chance to decide in a second referendum when they are acquainted with the consequences.
mr president, i think you will realise that this is an important issue on which i would like to say a couple of words. one of the most respected and moderate political leaders of kosovo... (the president cut off the speaker)
respected members, in the autumn of 2016, we voted in the european parliament for a resolution to combat russian propaganda. i was reserved then, and i still am today. i agree that monitoring the media influence of states on politics and society is necessary, and that the media's interplay with political parties and business companies must be recognised, so i have some critical remarks to make. first, why are we only dealing with russian propaganda? what is our relationship with the american fox news? do we care about the capital investment of american media corporations in european media outlets? whose views are being reported on al jazeera channels? and if we stay in europe, what do we think of national media owned by one party, its functionaries and those associated with them? in slovenia, we have such media. are their political messages propaganda? and the second comment, perhaps, in the message of sputnik and rt, which we call russian propaganda, we should recognize more than ever a successful attempt by russia to find its place in the media world by imitating existing models after many years of western media domination. i hope that the establishment of a costly anti-russian propaganda unit will bring results, but if our plenary is to maintain credibility, we must treat all media propaganda, especially false propaganda, equally.
i am not sure, your honour, that it is necessary to return to this subject so often in parliament. i think we have much more important things to talk about. the creation of false stories, biased news, including stories and actions that amount to an attempt to influence democratic elections and processes in other countries, all lead to an aggravated international situation. but i believe that propaganda from abroad, from russia or elsewhere, cannot undermine the confidence of the citizens of the european union in the union itself and its values. these are instruments of the cold war, and the cold war is a prelude to real conflict, usually. this requires two equally active and motivated parties. by pointing out the unacceptable behaviour of others, we must not become participants in this dangerous game, which is becoming more and more vicious and, unfortunately, more and more effective, in the face of new and more penetrating means at our disposal.
the reporter. of course, i would first like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and all the colleagues who have contributed to the final version of the report before us today and which we will be voting on tomorrow. i would also like to thank all the experts who have really contributed to the good quality of the report. we had our first meetings a year ago and, to see what the experience was in the field, we also carried out a fact-finding mission to slovenia and croatia. there were 224 amendments to the report and i think that in them and in the report itself we have covered all the main findings and highlighted the challenges we will have to face in the future as we continue with the youth employment initiative. what is the youth employment initiative? this is a financial programme supporting a project launched by the european commission in 2012. the commitment was then made to provide young europeans with a quality offer of employment, further education, apprenticeship or traineeship within four months of losing their job or leaving education. with the youth employment initiative, this program, which has 7.6 billion euros at its disposal, will make it easier to achieve this goal. but what's important, of course, is that the money is spent effectively and reaches the most vulnerable groups of young people. however, the available data unfortunately indicate that only a small proportion of those who are inactive have been covered. despite some shortcomings, mainly in terms of target groups and measurement and monitoring of results, the final results of the implementation of the initiative have been very positive. the most important issue that remains a challenge for the future of this programme is the issue of cost-effectiveness. so how is the money being spent, efficiently or not, and that's what the court of auditors has pointed out. one of the findings is also that member states use the funds from the initiative as a primary source rather than as an additional source, and in fact replace them with those national resources that they should otherwise contribute themselves. the monitoring and evaluation process is also very complex and unfortunately not uniform, so that we do not have very precise evidence today as to whether it is good or slightly less good efficiency, and i have of course also specifically mentioned this in the report. one of the key issues in this report and in our debate was the quality of job offers. these offers are usually, or often, highly questionable, and this is particularly a problem today when atypical forms of employment are prevalent. so i'm glad we've reached a compromise on what quality means. finally, i should add that the actions of the initiative have supported more than 1.6 million young people in the european union. we therefore need a sound strategy to transform the initiative into a more stable and sustainable funding instrument beyond 2020. we will then probably face different challenges in the labour market, but we will always, really always, have to look after those who are our future, that is, our young people, in the labour market.
first of all, my sincere congratulations to my colleague, ms romani tomc, on her excellent report, and my congratulations and thanks also to you, ms thyssen, for the work you are doing to tackle youth unemployment, which we know has been the greatest victim of the economic crisis. the report is encouraging, but at the same time your work has shown that there is a strong link between the education systems of countries on the one hand and unemployment on the other. the countries that have apprenticeships, that have internships, that connect the economy and education, are the countries with the lowest unemployment rates, and i think that this should also be a lesson in some ways for those countries that are now part of this youth guarantee, and that we are also trying to reform school systems. but we also have to be aware that what is happening is that the problem in europe today is that young people are migrating en masse from less developed countries to more developed countries, from less developed regions to more developed countries. this initiative therefore needs to be aware of this problem, which will be a problem for years to come.
so this policy of promoting youth employment and this scheme is extremely important and we have helped many young people in the european union, but it is true that of course the responsibility for solving this problem is usually then on the member states, no matter how efficiently they use these funds. however, it is also necessary to recall that in the field of the labour market, especially among young people, there is an increasing number of so-called 'precarious' jobs, which are becoming the predominant form of employment for young people. of course, so-called digital platforms are also emerging, which are fundamentally changing the labour market and moving the labour market from a labour relationship to a service market. and these are things that we have to pay very close attention to, because we can get a different statistical picture. and i agree with my colleagues who say that this money should be for quality jobs, which must meet certain quality standards, from social, to wage, and also perhaps a good tool for stimulating tax policy, depending on how capable the country is.
the reporter. thank you again for your time and thank you to everyone who took part in this interesting debate. i note that we actually share the same views on tackling youth unemployment and that we all recognise this yei programme as one of the fundamental and very useful initiatives to reduce youth unemployment. of course, we still have a lot of work to do in this area and i agree that we must continue to make this programme more effective. the commission also needs to be given more powers to monitor how member states spend this money. but let me just end by saying what many of you have said before me. the european union, or commission, is putting a lot of money at the disposal, and it is the member states that are most responsible for making sure that this money that is meant for young people actually reaches them. another important reminder: this programme and this money are not the only, or even the most important, means available to member states to rescue their employment policies. they are the ones who have to make all the necessary reforms first, and we differ a lot in that, some of us are very far behind. we need reforms in the labour market, and especially reforms in the education market, because we cannot afford to have young people who become unemployed but who have, say, a university degree come into the labour market. the education systems must provide for this. we're going to need this program, not just today, not just tomorrow, but beyond 2020. but if we want it to be effective, we will also have to take into account the conditions that will prevail in the labour market in a few years' time, namely new and innovative programmes for young people. thank you all so much for your cooperation.
so, plastic is becoming a bigger destroyer of our planet. europeans throw away as much as 25 million tonnes of plastic waste a year, and less than 30% of it is recycled. single-use plastic accounts for half of the waste in the sea and on the coast, and as we've heard, by 2050, there's going to be more plastic in the sea than fish. according to some estimates, about a billion animals die each year from plastic bags. these are just some of the horrifying data that highlight the seriousness of the consequences of plastic waste. some even link and equate the plastic pollution crisis with climate change. well, and finally, the european commission has presented a strategy to fight plastic waste, which needs to be cured and striven to be as ambitious as possible, and of course i welcome the proposals aimed at reducing plastic consumption and promoting recycling. our relationship with the planet we live on is really reprehensible, and we need to wake up, because if we have microplastics in our water and salt and air now, we're facing a serious test in the future.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank all colleagues. this debate stresses once again the importance of this file which is far from being only technical. it will produce better opportunities for people with print disabilities and, as i said earlier, it will contribute to a better society and a better economy for all of us. the time seems to have come for the marrakech treaty to become a reality and to have its practical effects on the ground. for this reason i would like to thank the honourable members of this parliament for their tireless work and for the resolve that this house has put into this file, and in particular our rapporteur mr andersson and the shadow rapporteurs. thank you, mr president, thank you, dear colleagues.
in writing. how is it that the right to read in the 21st century is still not guaranteed to all people? it is extremely worrying, even shocking, that only 5% of all published books are accessible to blind and visually impaired people in developed countries, and less than 1% in developing countries. it is obvious that this is forgetting that the right to read is inextricably linked to the right to education, which is a fundamental human right. by delaying the implementation of the marrakesh treaty, we are every day one step further away from the equality that should be taken for granted! it is high time to change this and i therefore support the recommendation to approve the conclusion of the marrakesh treaty as soon as possible, while calling on the member states to implement it as fully as possible in practice. in fact, some slovenian disability organisations have already expressed concern that the implementation of the slovenian legislation could lead to changes that might even worsen the current situation (e.g. the introduction of possible economic compensation for publishers). we can't let that happen. i would also point out that full implementation also requires adequate financial resources, without which the changes in everyday life that are so difficult to anticipate will be difficult to achieve.
in writing. the marrakesh treaty will facilitate access to published works for blind and partially sighted persons and persons with other reading disabilities, as blind and partially sighted persons still face many barriers to accessing books and other printed material. they need more works and other protected content available in accessible formats such as braille, audio books and large print. the eu legislation provides for the introduction of a new mandatory copyright exception under the marrakesh treaty. it will enable eligible persons and organisations to make accessible format copies of works and distribute them throughout the eu and in third countries that are signatories to the marrakesh treaty. i am pleased that the marrakesh treaty will ensure the fundamental human rights of over 30 million visually impaired children across the eu and will make books more accessible in developing countries.
thank you for your words, madam president, mr commissioner. i, too, must congratulate my colleague dante on a job well done. this is a very sensitive subject, as we know. in the field of education and training, we do not have many directives, this is one of the few that is trying to standardize somehow professional standards across europe. we have very different systems in the member states. we heard earlier from mr schwab that in germany they have their traditional system where the trade unions set the professional standards and so on. we have some member states where government officials regulate these kinds of tasks. so we certainly need a more comparable system at the european union level. in 2008, we adopted the european qualifications framework, which is still under-implemented in the member states, and so on. but there is still a need to be very careful here, because this is a matter of national sovereign policies, and a balance needs to be struck between national sovereignty and regulation by the european union.
thank you, mr draghi, for a report that is encouraging. it speaks of economic growth, of lower unemployment, of higher employment in the european union. my questions are three: first, what will the european central bank do to ensure that public finances, and especially the financial banks, are healthy in the future, so that there is no recurrence of bad loans by the taxpayers of the countries? secondly, what can the european central bank do to reduce the gap between the poor and the rich countries, so that we do not have this problem again and that we have to guarantee the finances of individual countries again in a few years? and the third question, what is the european central bank going to do about cryptocurrencies? this capital value is increasing, the bubbles are large, and if we want to have these cryptocurrencies regulated, the european central bank must also take decisive steps towards regulating this area.
i'd much rather hear the european union produce the best electric car than news of a new scandal. the principle of consumer confidence is already there, and i am grateful to the commissioner for emphasising the two key words trust and ethics. it's about consumer trust, and there's not enough technology, we need technology with ethics. and i think the european union needs to develop control, sanction and prevention measures to make us more resilient to this kind of lies and manipulation. and i have one more question. the title of the study is called the european research group on environment and health in the transport sector. who grants the right to use the word 'european'? because the word 'european' means that we are almost there, because we are a european institution.
mr. president, i am personally appalled by all these revelations that this particular automobile company has used such unethical and inhumane methods as testing on humans and monkeys. and i wonder, so, how far can we go in this profit-making, where are those limits? apparently these most basic limits of civilization are falling, and so, how far can we go even in being insensitive, unresponsive to this kind of scandal? i think it is also the european commission's turn to react strongly, not only by warning and possibly changing the rules, but also by imposing appropriate sanctions, because when it comes to such fundamental violations, including fundamental rights and also those rights which are linked in international instruments, which derive from respect for human dignity, then of course there must be no exceptions, there must be no excuse for any behaviour which is contrary to this. so once again, i call on the commission to take strong action to ensure that scandals do not recur.
mr president, every day artificial digital borders block millions of europeans from ordering goods, watching films, listening to music online, watching sports broadcasts, all because of so-called geoblocking, because of so-called unfair and unacceptable discrimination. what we have on the table now, this regulation, in a way we can't be entirely happy about, because it also means disappointment, because many good elements have been removed, and above all the regulation completely excludes videos, music, e-books, online computer games, this is the area that is most used in ordering, just because someone is from the wrong country and this geoblocking due to countries of origin is of course unacceptable and geoblocking can be removed completely or not.
in writing. have you ever been redirected to a website that sold a service after it had detected that you were from another country, where the service was possibly more expensive? i am glad that the regulation is now removing this, because from now on blocking or redirecting a consumer's website to another website on the basis of his nationality, place of residence or temporary location will be prohibited. according to a survey by the european consumers' voice on standardisation (anec), almost a quarter of respondents have already experienced their online order being rejected because they are from the 'wrong' eu country back home. the regulation allows traders to allow cross-border customers access to country-specific websites. i hope that this regulation will eliminate the disadvantage and allow better access to goods and services for customers.
of course, it is nice to talk about the future of europe and also about croatia, but we cannot ignore the fundamental values without which we cannot and do not want to imagine the future of the european union, and among them is absolutely the rule of law, which is in fact the basis of european values and the precondition for the realization of everything. and if we fall on the rule of law, we fall practically like europe. i hope, mr plenković, that you as prime minister, as you said, of the croatian state, will understand and in fact contribute to the fact that this is also the case in the implementation of arbitral awards, in the case of arbitral awards between the croatian and slovenian borders, and in a european spirit. it is, of course, unequivocal, binding, final, res judicata and, of course, non-negotiable, and that is why i would suggest to mr juncker, who has offered his help, that he can help by saying clearly, unequivocally, without hesitation, that arbitral decisions must be taken by all responsible member states in the european union.
your messages are extremely important today, especially in the light of the enlargement strategy in the balkans. you know that we are concerned about your government's actions following the decision of the slovenian-croatian arbitration court. you heard president juncker say that no other country will enter the union unless it resolves its borders. we have a solution, arbitrary. this is not a question of some brand-new compromise. what will be your message to the western balkan countries if croatia does not respect the arbitration award and there is no solution on the border? will you take responsibility for the countries that will be left at the door? you assure me that you are willing to do whatever it takes to get our country out of a situation that is hurting our people the most, but you failed to convince me today. you know that croats spend every winter on ski resorts, slovenians on the croatian coast and our common concern and responsibility is to maintain friendly and good neighbourly relations.
we were colleagues, i suppose it's a pleasure to have more time in this plenary, i have one minute. i would like to take this moment to congratulate croatia on its success and believe that it can be a real example and an invitation to all candidate countries seeking to join the european union. but i also have to say a few things about our bilateral relations. you have heard today the support of a large part of this parliament for the resolution of our bilateral, i would say unnecessary dispute on the basis of an arbitration tribunal. of course, the arbitral tribunal is the one that decides that, but at some point, whether or not there was an abuse, the tribunal decided that there was no such abuse that would have precluded arbitration, and it made a decision that you don't want to implement. i would say, mr prime minister, i urge you to solve this problem in the spirit of good neighbourliness, of lasting good neighbourliness, and that is why some respect for international law and the principles of good neighbourliness is also needed.
welcome and thank you for your clear words on the future of europe. i welcome croatia's european ambitions and wish it to qualify for the first speed. i'm not trying to dramatize the border between croatia and slovenia, but i want to be very specific. we are no longer looking for a solution because the limit in the assistance of the european commission has been legally set by the arbitral tribunal after a failed bilateral. the court has completed its work, despite the croatian qualifications of the slovenian conduct. so, we're looking for a way to implement the verdict. i am grateful to the commission for offering mediation and to you for being open to dialogue. you've already answered that question, and there's no need to add it again. i do have one question. central europe is increasingly emerging as a political entity with its own political and cultural identity and also with its own clear vision of the future of the european union. what do you think of that?
so i am not very happy with what the reform entails, particularly because i think it is simply not ambitious enough, and when we heard the big words in the adoption of the paris agreement, we somehow thought that these commitments meant serious action with concrete actions, but this has not happened, and these actions that are being taken are, nevertheless, not very decisive, rather shy moves forward. but, to not only be critical, it's also an important way forward, especially because of these excess allowances, because it's clear that emissions trading is also, in a way, washing the bad conscience of the big polluters. and here europe must be decisive in all its segments if it is to take seriously the protection of the environment for our descendants.
in the case of female genital mutilation, we cannot speak of it as anything other than intolerable, as something rejected. it is an invasion of the dignity of the individual, an invasion of fundamental rights, of the right to a normal future. of course, there is no excuse for such conduct, nor can it be found in religion or tradition itself. it is therefore an act of violence, and together we must put an end to this painful practice in europe, and also with the united nations in the context of other countries. this is an act that needs to be condemned, of course, because if we think that at least 200 million girls and women are living with these injuries, we need to act now, because this number is going to be higher in the future, and we need to do a lot of work in education, in awareness, and also in health, and in providing a criminal framework and punishing.
on behalf of the alde group. i would like to commend the commission for what it says in its document, a credible prospect of enlargement and enhanced cooperation with the western balkans. the alde group supports the process of enlargement of the european union to the countries of the region, in the belief that the integration of the entire western balkans will contribute to the stability and progress of our continent and to its security. i welcome the commission's decision to continue accession negotiations with serbia and montenegro, on the assumption that the accession possibilities for new members can be realised from 2025. depending on the achievements and fulfilment of the accession conditions, the strategy also opens the door to macedonia, albania, bosnia and herzegovina and kosovo. this is even more important than the date mentioned. in addition to the necessary reforms in the area of the rule of law, fundamental rights, the independence of the judiciary, the functioning of democratic institutions, the inclusiveness of parliaments and the coordination of the ruling coalitions with the opposition, when it comes to reforms directly linked to the european perspective, i think it is important to highlight the following. the western balkan countries will have to be more effective in rejecting nationalism, leaving the past to history, and settling open border issues. it is worth noting that the eu will not accept as members countries that bring old conflicts back into the union. i think it is equally appropriate to point out that the member states of the european union do not use their status to pressure and blackmail the candidates. the western balkans is a region which the european union sees as a whole, as a potential added value to the political, economic and cultural diversity of our continent. this is one more reason why the countries in this region also strive for good neighbourliness and cooperation amongst themselves.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. to quote commissioner hahn, today is a great day for the western balkans. and so today we are witnessing the european future for all the countries of the western balkans clearly expressed before the western balkans. so today's message is clear: the european union will expand, the door is wide open. and it's actually a document that's extremely positive in nature. and so we have ahead of us periods of opportunity, periods of, of course, reform. a period of many efforts, but also of the end results. and i am sure that with this document today, europe is also sending a clear message that without the western balkan countries, there will be no stable european union and no peaceful european union. and this is also, of course, a period of opportunity for both sides. today, of course, we have to say that the european union is one of the largest trading partners of the western balkans, with an annual value of over 43 billion euros, and also the largest donor and provider of financial aid. i am convinced that financial assistance must of course be improved, but also with appropriate controls and appropriate monitoring, since there are still a number of issues that are not closed and that will be the subject of many negotiations between the countries. especially on corruption, organized crime, the independence of the judiciary, and of course, the freedom of the media. but i am sure that the western balkans, in all its beauty, also has a great will to change and complete these things. one last thing. it is clear that bilateral issues of importance must also be resolved before accession. the question of the border, where the commission was able to get very well acquainted with the question of croatia and slovenia today. and just one more thing. i wish that the rule prevails not of regatta fighting, but of regatta cooperation.
i am glad that for the first time in 15 years and after the thessaloniki summit, we have a strategy on the table with a clear message: the union wants the western balkans to be part of its family, its values, its common history and its future. the strategy represents a clear commitment and encouragement to the western balkan countries, but at the same time it places responsibility in the hands of the western balkan leaders, who can only seize this historic opportunity if they carry out the necessary reforms and provide citizens with a decent life. the process of joining the union is not just a technical process, opening and closing chapters, it is the acceptance of a system of values on the basis of which our societies operate. i often hear from people in the region that they want more democracy, less corruption, the rule of law, an independent media and an independent and functioning judiciary. young people in the balkans want to stay in their countries, but only if they have job opportunities. i therefore expect leaders in the region to demonstrate a real commitment to the union's values through their behaviour, not just on paper. without the western balkans, the historic project of the european union will never be completed. together, we will be a stronger bloc, better able to overcome the many societal challenges of an increasingly interconnected world. the people of the balkans, ladies and gentlemen, are tired of a very dark past and want the bright future that only membership of the union can bring.
i welcome the strategy which removes any doubt about the strategic importance of the western balkans for the european union. the important thing is that it is open to all six countries in the region. it is also important that the european union wants to organise itself internally before enlargement. i am not a fan of dates, but i say again: credibility means that the european union must be ready when one of the candidate countries is ready. being prepared means sharing european values and principles, at home and with neighbours, and first and foremost, fully upholding the rule of law. communication is needed not only between neighbours but also within countries with strong polarization. the strategy must be followed by an action-oriented approach so that there is no doubt that the european path for the western balkans has no alternative, either politically, in terms of security or economically. there has been no eu-western balkans summit since thessaloniki. the first summit will take place again in sofia in spring. the first added value to be generated by this strategy, which still has ambition reservations, must be achieved there. i propose that in the future there should be more institutional osmosis at a high political level. i hope that the western balkan countries will make the most of this new momentum as soon as possible.
commissioner hahn, my sincere congratulations and thanks for this document which you have brought to the european parliament. the most valuable thing about this document is that it's clear. it gives the six western balkan countries, living among the five countries of the european union, a clear perspective to become members of the european union. the message is also clear: respect the criteria for joining the european union, eliminate corruption, respect the rule of law and, more importantly, know how to cooperate in the region, establish mutual cooperation, forgive the past and look forward. it is also a guarantee of peace in this part of europe, of peace in my immediate neighbourhood. it is also very important that for the first time it is written down what i have been saying here in parliament for three years, namely that these countries, because of their serious economic backwardness, need more intensive aid than is being given by the european union today. the main reason for helping is to make them economically stronger, to help young people who are leaving today and are cheap labour in austria, germany and other european countries, to help them stay at home, to help them create their future at home and to help them guarantee the prosperity of these countries. this is also important for having strong countries in europe, with which we will also trade in the future, after all, countries like slovenia, which have traditionally good relations with these countries. i sincerely congratulate you and hope that the european union will fulfil its commitments and, above all, that the countries will correctly understand and fulfil their commitments.
i welcome the start of the political debate on the future of the western balkans, which needs a clear european perspective. and only in this way will we motivate countries to meet the political and economic conditions and to implement the necessary reforms. the western balkan countries' membership of the european union, which also enjoys strong popular support, is a marriage for the stability of the wider region and for easing some tensions between countries. the enlargement of the european union to the western balkans has been pushed to the sidelines in recent years by the many crises we have faced. reform efforts in these countries have slowed down, with a growing proportion of people not believing they will ever join the european union. in addition, we are witnessing an increased interest by certain powers which wish to increase their influence in the western balkans. for all these reasons, we must pay more attention to the countries in the region in the future.
so today is a happy day for all citizens living in the western balkan countries. this message, or deadline, offered by the european union will certainly be fulfilled or accepted in the years ahead. but i would like to emphasize this: when countries meet all the conditions for membership of the european union, they must be admitted to the european union. but it is not right to impose additional conditions on them now, as the president of the european commission did this morning when he said that they must first solve their own border problems. all those who know the history and the geostrategic situation in the balkans know that this is not easy and that it is an additional condition which can also become an obstacle to the integration of these countries, even if they fulfil all the conditions for full membership of the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. if a government, after decades of generous support to a humanitarian organization, in our case unwri, decides to drastically reduce its support without prior notice and virtually prevent it from functioning normally, then it is legitimate to ask: why? we are talking about the decision of us president trump, which has affected not only the slightly more than half a million girls and boys in schools supported by unrwa in areas where palestinian refugees live, but also the millions of palestinians who live in the most difficult conditions in camps in jordan, lebanon, syria, the west bank and gaza. in the face of this extreme hardship, which has been driven by a hard decision by the us government, it is our moral duty to help the palestinians and unrwa to step in and try to make up for the loss of income. that is why, in the resolution we are voting on tomorrow, we call on the countries of the european union to join the solidarity action. the united states has provided unrwe with reliable and generous support since its inception in 1950. it is probably no coincidence that the cut in funding for unwro came directly after the us president announced that he would formally recognize jerusalem as the capital of the state of israel. this announcement was followed by a statement by palestinian president abbas that he no longer sees the us as a potential mediator in the israeli-palestinian peace process. for those of us who have had the opportunity to visit any palestinian camp in the middle east in recent years, it is clear that the work done by unwra is invaluable. while continuing to face financial problems and the need for aid is growing, the organization has not only maintained the hope of a better future for refugees, provided education for children and comfort for the elderly, but has also maintained the nonpolitical and neutral status of its organization and its institutions through its self-sacrificing work, often at the cost of its own sacrifice. humanitarian aid is no substitute for a normal, decent life. such a life will only be possible for palestinian refugees when israel and the palestinians have permanently resolved their conflict through mutual respect and living in two sovereign states. until then, unrwa will be an irreplaceable support to those who suffer most in the middle east. that's why we need to help the organization, and we need to do it now.
we heard a lot of good arguments for and against transnational lists, "leading candidates" and also about electoral units. i would like to emphasize that this direct contact between the elected and the electorate is extremely important. i come from a relatively small municipality in eastern slovenia, with about 2,500 people. and this small local community is not a single electoral unit either, but in order to keep the mps in touch with their constituents, they are divided into three electoral units. i think that logic is very important. this kind of unitary view of democracy, which assumes that democracy is just a competition of political elites for votes, doesn't seem right to me. democracy is a much broader concept, but it is based on a commitment to accountability, a link between those who are elected and those who vote.
mr president, the socialists and democrats group has always been at the forefront when it comes to defending the rule of law and democracy, and we fully stand by those principles today. romania is one of the youngest democracies in europe and there are still pending issues there. however, bucharest showed its responsibility in addressing these issues in an open and inclusive way, which we strongly welcome. we trust romania to resolve those issues fully, alone through its own independent constitutional mechanisms and procedures, and also by engaging in viable institutional dialogue, including with international institutions and the eu. we should be critical when criticism is needed, but we firmly reject the politicisation of facts without objective consideration of reality. we want clearly to dissociate ourselves from any such attempts in these debates today and to give room for dialogue. for us, the recent protests in romania are signs of a healthy and democratic civic attitude and engagement as regards the accountability of their politicians.
listening to this debate, it is obviously a question that is provoking very different views, including that it is an insignificant subject which, given all the other very important challenges facing the european union, does not really belong in the european parliament, but is it? recently, there have been more and more calls, also to europeans, to find that the justification for changing the time is no longer tenable, that the changes in time have a negative impact on human health, on the risk of accidents and other, on the increase in administrative costs, and these are all measurable and financially valued consequences. it is, of course, right to confront the various arguments and to put the findings of science and the profession on the table. of course, we must also consider the principle that the laws of nature prevail. why does nature have to be corrected over and over again and imposed some artificial laws and rules, because sooner or later it retaliates.
in writing. i support parliament's proposal, as preventive strategies based on the exchange of best practices and the exchange of suspicious relevant information between intelligence services are essential in the fight against terrorist financing or terrorist attacks. the disruption of the sources of financing of terrorist networks should be a priority, as it is an effective tool to reduce the effectiveness of these networks. the establishment of a network of counter-terrorism experts in eu delegations, the provision of funding for programmes aimed at promoting the exchange of best practices between intelligence services within eu member states as well as third countries are urgently needed measures. the call for member states to set up joint investigation units with europol to monitor suspicious organisations engaged in activities such as illicit trafficking, smuggling, counterfeiting and fraudulent practices is very positive. we urgently need the programmes and resources of the member states to make these programmes successful.
in writing. parcel delivery is a competitive, innovative and fast-growing area within the sector. in the eu, around four billion parcels are ordered and delivered online each year .about 44% of eu consumers buy within their own country, and much less, only 15%, buy in another member state i. the concerns raised by consumers and small businesses in the eu are mainly related to the cross-border delivery of goods and the relatively high postal costs, which naturally increase the final cost of the goods. no. studies have shown that cross-border parcel prices are on average three to four times higher than at home. the commission has also concluded that the price of crossborder parcel delivery services is not a factor that can be explained by economic factors such as the price of the goods or services in question. the high delivery and return prices are the most common area of criticism expressed by crossborder online shoppers. the high delivery prices are also a barrier for e-retailers, who are it's more than just big companies that are affected. the european commission has launched a new communication on the future of the european union's transport policy. the legal framework that creates a more transparent, cost-effective and reliable parcel delivery service has the potential to increase the number of parcel delivery services in the eu. the package delivery directive provides a good example of the extension of the framework for trade with smes, and hence the need to improve the quality of the services provided by the smes. i support this.
the european commission has presented a clear commitment to the future enlargement of the western balkan countries. the western balkan countries have made substantial reforms of their institutions and laws in the last 20 years, contrary to what my predecessor said about kosovo and albania. we promised them membership if they stuck to their path. the union has largely cooperated with the political elites to this end. now is the time to actively involve citizens. if we want to make investments sustainable for 20 years, we must also have the citizens on our side. our commitment in effort and money must be twofold. membership is not just a political goal, it must become a democratic achievement for all western balkan societies. i call on european leaders to make a clear commitment to enlargement at the summit, including the may summit in sofia, and to include enlargement in the june meeting. we must work with the western balkans leaders in an open and honest way. until the conditions are met, progress is impossible. the bulk of the responsibility lies with the balkan leaders. turkey, for example, failed the rule of law and human rights tests. the more than 130,000 people who have been detained since the summer of 2016 prove that this is not a safe or democratic country. therefore, for all those eu countries which unfortunately believe the opposite and close their doors to asylum seekers: the union needs the western balkans and vice versa to help overcome common challenges, stability and peace for young people who need hope, security and a european future instead of fleeing.
the european union funds are used to achieve common european objectives. a well-functioning european union benefits all its members. this must be said out loud and taken into account in the european budgetary debates. in this way, we will ensure sufficient funds for traditional challenges such as the internal market, agricultural policy and cohesion policy, which are also very important for slovenia. among the new challenges, security and the defence of external borders are key, because without them all four of our fundamental freedoms are at risk. in the current system of national contributions, the european focus is lost in national aspirations. the european union thus remains a puppet, rather than a major player, who at the age of 60 is no longer a child to be paid by his parents. the uk's withdrawal is an ideal opportunity to achieve the objectives of the treaty of rome on the financing of the european union by its own resources. the european budget needs a reform of the system of own resources. the high level group on own resources has prepared reports which the european commission should examine as soon as possible.
i am, of course, very concerned about the us's predictions of tariffs, but to say that they were not to be expected would be naive. unfortunately, we cannot dictate to others how they should behave, but we can influence how we ourselves behave. of course, i do not want a trade war, which would be harmful to everyone, and above all to our european citizens, but we must also ask ourselves what has brought us to this situation. we remember, about two years ago, there was a time when there were very large protests, including in this room, against the ttip trade agreement. and today they're all excited about free trade. we can no longer afford to find ourselves in a situation where we have to defend ourselves again and again, and it is clear that europe is becoming increasingly vulnerable in the economic, economic sphere and that we have to take such measures as will primarily protect european values, the european economy and european borders.
euro-atlantic links are of strategic long-term importance for the united states as well as for the european union. it is rooted in a common culture, a common cultural foundation, common values, in the economies that have so far bound us together. the us move to drastically raise tariffs on steel as well as on aluminium is going in the opposite direction. it is certainly a new form of protectionism, which is putting confrontation in the first place instead of cooperation. let us remember where protectionism led a century ago. it means closing economies instead of cooperating and respecting competition. the european union's response has been good so far. i congratulate the european commission on preparing a firm and proportionate response within the rules of the world trade organisation. but i would like to repeat what our president weber said this morning: even if the united states or anyone else builds walls, we will continue to build bridges.
i am pleased that the awareness of the importance of socially responsible behaviour has reached many companies operating in the european union. not all of them, but certainly all of them that are doing well in business. they are aware that long-term business success cannot be achieved without taking account of the environmental and human impacts of their business. but social responsibility is not something that can be exercised overnight. it's a philosophy that takes time. so it's important to talk about it and highlight the positive effects, which are, of course, many. companies that are socially responsible are generally more successful in the market, provide better jobs and are more environmentally responsible. as a member of the employment committee, i am particularly interested in the aspect related to employees. in this area, the positive results are reflected in a higher employee commitment, a higher motivation, fewer sick leave, and this, of course, leads to an overall better result. we also have to realize that in some places, social responsibility is very much encouraged by government measures, by tax breaks. and we as policy makers need to support good practice in social responsibility, but i warn you, we need to be careful not to burden companies with new requirements and new obligations. this will benefit everyone: businesses, employees, the environment and society as a whole.
i myself support both regulations, because in the context of efforts to combat climate change, we are moving in the right direction. i think it is particularly important that in the area of the lulucf regulation we have managed to preserve forests as a source of greenhouse gas sinks while still enabling sustainable forest management. it means using the forest as a source of quality building materials that avoid the use of many other materials that cause greenhouse gases, and also incorporating this very important wood mass into the bioeconomy. i am also very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new regulation on waste wood.
in the 7th environment action report, we have seen and recognised progress in individual areas, but also the challenges we face, particularly in the areas of air, water, food. and we know that europe is changing very rapidly and also, thank god, in the area of environmental parameters, we are making progress in many ways. as far as agricultural policy is concerned, i think agriculture faces a very big challenge of how to feed more and more people. i therefore believe that one of the areas which must be highlighted in future agricultural policy is the promotion of precision farming. that is, we will ensure that we use less of all the preparations, and we will also ensure that we have more traceability, so that it's easier to track what's actually happening in nature. important in the bioeconomy: new products to replace fossil fuels. but certainly biodiversity, and i'm glad that on may 20 we're going to celebrate the first world bee day, which will be in slovenia, and it's kind of an indicator of the state of bees and the environment in nature.
madam president, civil society is undoubtedly a project of european civilization, created centuries ago, which somehow also played an important role in controlling those who had political and administrative power. today, with this resolution, we are trying to create an instrument through which ngos, non-governmental organisations, can fund, promote, in practice, fundamental, universal values. but i would like to point out one thing: if ngos, if civil society is over-funded by public funds allocated by politics, then there is a danger or fear that this civil society becomes dependent on this politics, becomes para-state instead of representing the vitality of civil society. so we have to encourage civil society organizations to be funded from multiple sources, including private capital, donors and so on, the economy.
mr president, in the last couple of years the world has witnessed an unprecedented volume of international migration. both migrants and refugees leave their countries due to economic or social hardships, persecution, conflict, poverty or even climate change. if we have learned anything over this time, it is that human mobility cannot be stopped or forcefully prevented, but it has to be managed globally. therefore, the un global compact is crucial. no country can face these phenomena alone. the eu has to speak with one voice and has to take a leading role, especially after the us has decided to leave the negotiations. managing migration requires major investment in comprehensive global development policy, especially in human rights, social inclusion, education, justice, health and employment, with a special focus on vulnerable groups and children. at the same time, we need to work in our countries on our perception of migration. the dangerous spread of misinformation and fake news poses a threat to our policies and provides fertile ground for xenophobia and racism. legal and safely managed migration can be beneficial and can be an engine for economic growth and innovation. and it will lead to fewer deaths, less abuse of irregular migrants by smugglers and less exploitation by employers. this is a process we can win if, as the eu, we work together as one.
it was nothing new in syria when the three presidents of the western member states of the united nations security council, without consulting their parliaments, decided to intervene militarily in syria. in this way, we add new players to the interventions in this country, and the suffering of the syrian people continues. in a seven-year conflict between geostrategic interests, religious fanatics and terrorist movements, syria is becoming a model for future military conflicts and threats to world peace. the only statement that deserves special attention in yesterday's communiqué on the meeting of the european union's foreign ministers is that there is no military solution to the conflict in syria. so, whether the operations are being carried out by russia, turkey, hired terrorists or the western troika. syria needs effective help from the european union for the sake of the people who still want to live in their homeland and for our own interests. syria needs peace, not the sound of military drums.
madam president, there are enough speakers in this parliament who use language that we, the slightly older and more experienced ones, have known since the cold war when discussing the european union's relations with the russian federation. i don't belong in that circle myself, but i do wish that russia would not slide towards an authoritarian regime, where it already is, that it would not violate human rights, that it would not restrict freedom of expression, that it would not use military potential in the pursuit of its geostrategic priorities and try to restore the balance it lost with the collapse of the soviet empire. russia should not be treated as a natural enemy of western europe, it cannot be equated with its political and economic oligarchs. it is time to see russia as a potential partner, not a geostrategic confrontation, but a country inhabited by people who have created a rich cultural heritage, who want freedom and democracy and are willing to fight for it themselves and with our help. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. dear colleague, you may have missed that i said that they are already there, that they already have an authoritarian system. i explicitly said that in my show.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, i would like, firstly, to stress the excellent work by our rapporteur, mr millán mon. it was a pleasure to work with you, as you are a very committed and professional rapporteur. australia and the european union and its member states are strong and like-minded partners with deep bilateral relations and a long history of cooperation based upon common values and principles. the conclusion of the framework agreement provides a legally-binding instrument to upgrade and strengthen eu-australia bilateral relations and to increase cooperation. australia and the eu are both committed to advancing the protection and promotion of human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law. they are closely aligned in foreign policy issues, both being important actors in development cooperation and humanitarian assistance in the pacific region, and in dialogue with the countries of southeast asia. the high level of global mobility requires a multilateral approach based on multinational cooperation and shared responsibility. furthermore, the partners are dedicated to intensifying dialogue and cooperation on migration and asylum. moreover, the eu and australia engage in cooperation on combating terrorism, as well as in the fields of migration and asylum, research and innovation, education, culture and environmental protection. finally, let me stress that in 2016, the european union was australia’s second-largest trading partner. therefore, i also support the eu-australia free trade agreement, which must be conducted in a spirit of reciprocity and mutual benefit, while taking into account the sensitivity of certain products.
i congratulate my colleague, mr mylán món, on his excellent report, with its clear points, and i am delighted to be following the speech by mr brok. it is time for a new chapter in the relations between the european union and australia. and i welcome the process which will lead to the conclusion of a free trade agreement through a framework agreement. in doing so, both sides not only express their commitment to shared values, principles and interests, but also raise the level of ambition in developing their cooperation in the future. this also demonstrates a negative attitude towards protectionism. this is not just another deal. this is a strategic decision. i am assuming that this agreement will also not lead to a lowering of social, environmental and labour standards and that we will share australia's high ambitions in the service sector. i'm all for dynamic negotiations.
madam president, of course this is a big scandal, a serious abuse of data, but the facebook case is just the tip of the iceberg, in fact just an open pandora's box, which has shown simply how powerful these digital platforms are, how they can actually have a profound impact on social events, including elections. and actually, how can they steer the democratic processes and democracy itself, and actually can they create what's called virtual democracy, which we can then just follow. and that is why we need to limit this enormous power, and that is why it is good that we have this data protection regulation. however, this regulation cannot in itself replace so-called business ethics and, of course, corporate social responsibility. of course, appropriate sanctions are also appropriate and necessary, and it is also imperative to respond appropriately in this area.
i welcome the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending the directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing, which is moving in the right direction. innovations in financial services, such as virtual currencies and anonymous prepaid cards, are also increasingly being used by criminals and it is therefore very important that legislation in this area is regularly updated. terrorist networks are often financed from other countries, not necessarily from the country in which they carry out their terrorist activities. it is therefore crucial to establish who actually owns the business structure in order to bring the actual perpetrators to justice. it is also important that european union legislation is aligned with developments at global level, as the misuse of the financial system for terrorist purposes also threatens the integrity and stability of the financial system.
dirty money provides the foundation for a parallel, deep state run by hidden owners. when we can legislate to prevent that, we can say we've succeeded. i hope that the proposal before us is a step in the right direction. but we regret to say that paper can take it all. but in practice, crime still occurs. for example, slovenia has one of the best laws in the world, as commissioner jourová has personally confirmed to me, on the prevention of money laundering. but what good does it do us if, despite this legislation, a billion euros of laundered money from iran flowed through a state-owned bank. everybody knows it, the evidence exists, nobody answers. we also have a law that's supposed to reveal the true owners of companies. - do you? we can and we will find out who owns the glee club. but you'll never find out who owns the left-wing extremist weekly mladina. all of this is still under wraps. we need more effective legislation.
mr president, allow me to start by congratulating both mr häusling and the commissioner on their persistence in finally getting to the end of this document. in the 20 years since the regulation has been changed, a great deal has changed in the field of organic farming. six percent of europe's land is now under this treatment, called organic farming. the demand for products is increasing day by day. we therefore have a duty to ensure that the consumer is given a very clear message about what he is actually getting in organic food and that he is getting a comparable result, regardless of which european country the food comes from, and, more importantly, that the same rules apply to food imported into the european union as to food produced in europe. part of this has been achieved by standardisation, but also by predicting better controls. and i think that's one of the key messages now that can give this sector a breakthrough. organic farming is a great opportunity for small farms too, so i am happy to see this certification joint, which is possible for several farms. it is also extremely important that we have preserved the possibility of both conventional and organic food production in strictly separated parts of the farm. it is also very important in the area of biodiversity that we have successfully regulated the area of seed production to some extent in this regulation. congratulations and much success to the organic farmers in the future.
i also thank mrs łybacki for the question she has prepared. the fact is that almost all of us agree that the bologna reform must go ahead, that the process must continue, because only in this way will the european union reach the so-called third generation of universities, the new generation of universities that we urgently need, in the field of higher education. although we all know that the charm of the old humboldt university is still very much alive, supported by the work of both students and professors, the dynamics of development force us to make universities much more vital and more excellent. of course, we cannot be completely satisfied with the process itself. in many places it was understood more as a technical process than a substantive one. there hasn't been much attention to change the curriculum, the approaches, and so on. but we must realize that this is the right path. only then will european universities be among the best in the world.
in writing. our common goal is to achieve a european higher education area one day, as high-quality higher education is essential for the development of a broad, progressive, knowledge-based society. the bologna process promotes mobility, encourages and creates the foundations of excellent science, while respecting the principles of academic freedom and the autonomy of institutions. we need to invest in content to ensure that europe's universities are excellent. but we must not forget the people. to the students who will be competing with this fellow from other universities around the world.
in writing. in 2013, a total ban on animal testing of cosmetic products came into force in the eu. we have a thriving and innovative cosmetics sector, which provides some two million jobs and is the largest cosmetics market in the world. the level of compliance with the applicable testing and marketing prohibitions in europe is very high. approximately 80% of countries worldwide still allow animal testing despite legislative progress in this area. i welcome the initiative to invite the presidents, as well as representatives of the eu institutions, to advocate a global ban on animal testing of cosmetics in meetings with counterparts from global organisations, in particular the un secretary-general. persistent efforts in training and education are needed to ensure proper knowledge of alternatives and procedures in laboratories and competent authorities.
mr. prime minister, thank you for your frank and inspiring speech. you reminded us that the european idea is more than political pragmatism, geostrategy, collective defence and the occasional cover for individual aggression. thank you for your reflections on european culture, science and young people. i also want to thank you for the hospitality that belgium has offered to some of the catalan leaders. no one in europe should be afraid, let alone imprisoned, for their ideas. europe must be a place of dialogue, freedom, humanism, peace and creativity, and never, and nowhere, of threats and repression.
each year, more than 100,000 laboratory animals die in agony in the cosmetics industry. the numbers are staggering, from 200,000 to 500,000 animals. so it's hard to talk about animal welfare when we know that many countries outside the eu still allow animal testing and marketing of cosmetic products, testing for them. and the real dilemma here is, of course, how much longer are we going to treat this as an unpleasant truth? europe has a thriving, innovative cosmetics sector, with two million jobs. the ban on animal testing has not been shown to jeopardise the development of this sector in any way. research into alternative methods has even produced remarkable results. this model must be transposed to the global level and, to this end, the world trade and the wto and the un must be committed. i think we can do a lot here as a parliament.
of course, media pluralism and media freedom are key elements for monitoring democracy, for maintaining democratic standards. unfortunately, this is also the fact that media freedom is disproportionate to the long arm of capital, which does not hide the fact that the media is powerful, and on the other hand, of course, the precarious dependent working relationships of journalists. and that, of course, can also increase the amount of news that is false, including so-called hate speech. and as a consequence, this freedom of journalism is increasingly being curtailed, and journalists are not the ones who should be the victims, even those who have paid with their lives. but above all, there needs to be a firm standard and a clear distinction between freedom of speech, freedom of expression and, on the other hand, censorship, because the line is sometimes very thin.
madam president, the purpose of this directive is therefore to ensure greater fairness in the labour market for posted workers. because the exploitation of workers and the curtailment of workers' rights within the european single market is absolutely unacceptable. but unfortunately, it is a fact and a harsh reality. and that is why i welcome this directive, which regulates this principle of equal pay for equal work, at least by means of minimum standards, if i may say minimum conditions. the concern is whether this directive will really be put into practice and whether it will actually be implemented. therefore, in addition to the objective of the directive better fairness in the labour market we also need strict controls. and, of course, the prosecution of those harmful practices and fraudulent practices that put workers in such an unenviable position. let us remember only those images of posted workers, who then, of course, live in impossible conditions. and if violations are not sanctioned, we won't achieve much.
madam president, the most extreme minister in the israeli government, liberman has just announced the construction of a multi-million dollar wall that will virtually close the sea to the palestinians living in a walled enclave. all of this is supposed to enhance the security of the state of israel and its citizens. meanwhile, his soldiers use disproportionate violence to cruelly repress young palestinians who are protesting, either under the threat of hamas or simply expressing their indignation and helplessness at the lack of perspective of their lives in this place, which best fits the concept of a concentration camp. israel is annexing palestinian land and arrogantly telling the world that it recognizes only its own interests and its own truth. even a new wall, whether built on land, sea or air, will not bring peace to israel. the only way to get there is to cross the bridge that you build with understanding and respect for your neighbors, international law and the right to life of young palestinians.
i could not support the report on the future of agriculture. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, including the introduction of a new vaccine, and has also taken steps to combat it. the other very important thing that convinced me not to support this report is, first of all, that we are not protecting enough small and medium-sized farmers, who are actually crucial to the preservation of our countryside. and if we favor only the big ones, then of course we're going to weaken this agricultural market very much. it's the small farmers who add value, who make sure that, of course, local food finds its proper place. and it's the local food that we have to bring to the plates of the most vulnerable, whether it's children, the sick, the elderly.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, golden visa schemes allow certain third—country nationals to obtain citizenships or permanent residence of a member state, and with that they have access to the schengen area and the internal market. they are very often highly corrupt individuals who have not been properly vetted and who may well be criminals. according to transparency international, such practices are carried out by at least 11 member states of the eu, and that is of great concern. golden visa programmes are not exclusively a national matter, but an eu matter too. we talk about the safety of the schengen area and our citizens. how can our member states justify on the one hand refusing to accept a single refugee fleeing war or persecution, whilst on the other being more than willing to give citizenships to potential criminals who bring a lot of money through investments, without knowing what their real background is? eu citizenships should not be for sale. most systems for obtaining golden visas lack transparency and accountability, especially in the decision—making process. lack of control risks potential money laundering practices and links to criminal financing for such investments. the eu must ensure that residency and citizenship by investment schemes do not undermine the eu core values of freedom, security and justice, nor threaten the principle of sincere cooperation between the member states. we strongly call on the european commission to prepare proper legislation on obligatory reviews of investors and provide very clear criteria for obtaining such golden visas.
i come from slovenia, where the unemployment rate is among the highest in europe. sadly, overwork is and is becoming the new form of slavery in the 21st century. and precarity is for many - unfortunately - the only choice, and it is also synonymous with cruel insecurity and a situation where labour and social rights do not really exist. and this flexibility, this total flexibility that is required of the worker, means that he has to give up practically everything, including his own dignity, to do so. i'm afraid that's our policy. but we must not forget, either at european level or in the member states, that the right to work is a fundamental human right, which means that it is a right of the highest legal rank, guaranteed of course also by international law, including the constitution, and that it is not a right to any work, but a right to decent work. and i think we owe it to future generations, and to the present generation, to offer a future worthy of man.
madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the outcome of the trialogue with great pleasure, also on behalf of my fellow pilots, who are pleased that the legislation has been or that the european union is attentive to their needs, to development. in this respect, a significant adjustment has been made and the increase in the maximum take-off mass for ultralight aircraft is a real step forward and also represents new prospects for the development of this very fast-developing sector of european aviation, also in terms of innovation.
first of all, i would like to thank and congratulate krystyna łybacka on such a well-written report. i myself have, in my reports over the last few years, starting with youth and mobility and others, emphasised this very crucial importance of modernising european education systems. i am also pleased that there is a growing recognition that the quality of education is crucial, not only for maintaining and raising economic growth and other economic indicators, but also and above all for ... crucial for maintaining the european way of life, its culture and its values. i am also pleased that the european institutions have been paying much more attention in recent years, both with money, education both with money and with mechanisms that affect the modernisation of education systems in the member states. and last but not least, i look forward to working with you on the new programme for 2021 to 2027.
the 2017 report on human rights and democracy in the world is important for an in-depth overview of the situation in this area. if we move away from democracy and human rights, we're going in the wrong direction. the action plan on human rights and democracy adopted by the european union for the period 20152020 needs to be adapted to make the european union's policies in this area more effective, including with countries outside the european union. the human rights of women, children and minorities must remain at the forefront. i want to draw attention to the trafficking of human beings, which is a global phenomenon and is gaining in scale. we should do more in this area. it is a very important instrument for democracy and human rights in order to achieve human rights objectives, supporting organisations and associations and individuals who are committed to human rights and fundamental freedoms. the budget allocation for the period 2014-2020 is eur 1,3 billion, which should be ... (the president interrupted the speaker. )
the honourable high representative, the distinguished colleagues. in a region that has been beset by problems of post-soviet expansionism and ethnic tensions and local wars since the collapse of the soviet union, georgia is an example of a successful transition to a state that upholds the rules of democracy and the rule of law. this is despite the heavy mortgage, as russia does not recognize its sovereignty over large parts of the country and is preparing to definitively annex the breakaway parts of the georgian state by supporting separatists in abkhazia and south ossetia. with the comprehensive association agreement of 2016 and the visa waiver last year, the european union has given decisive support to georgia's development as a pillar of stability in the region. it is important that we support the territorial integrity of the country and that we insist on respect for international law, human and minority rights wherever there are similar situations in the world, for example in nagorno-karabakh, palestine, western sahara or ukraine, and thus contribute to solving problems and ensuring peace.
member of the commission. – madam president, ms crețu sends her apologies as she cannot be with you this evening, but rest assured that she will take a close interest in the results of this work, and indeed this debate. on behalf of the commission, i would like to welcome this debate and the opportunity to discuss cohesion policy’s contribution to the circular economy. as you know well, the commission’s circular economy action plan was adopted in 2015 when the framework for the 2014—2020 cohesion policy was already in place. nevertheless, many priorities and principles have been key components of our cohesion policy, acting as a stimulus to local and regional development: waste prevention, recycling, eco—design and similar measures create savings, increase turnover and create local jobs in various sectors. in the 2014—2020 period, cohesion policy invests in improved waste management with more than eur 5.5 billion. furthermore, we invest in resource efficiency, sme support and close—to—market innovation. beyond funding, cohesion policy provides possibilities for capacity building, technical assistance, promoting green public procurement and cooperation across borders. to avoid lock—ins, the system of ex-ante conditionalities was introduced, as mentioned. for waste, this means that the investments are made based on waste management and prevention plans, and for innovation, on smart specialisation strategies. all of this will go forward and continue in the next mff. in addition, we will place more emphasis on the transition towards a circular economy. this is a broad challenge, profoundly changing our economies, which requires innovation, behavioural change, improved waste prevention and management, know—how, skills and administrative capacity, among other things. with its integrated policy framework, cohesion policy is well placed to help regions to face this challenge. among the priorities included in the commission’s proposal is an increased focus on the upper strategies of the waste hierarchy, excluding landfilling and the least desirable treatment operations from the scope of the funds, to adapt regional waste management systems to the new long-term targets. we also increase the focus on smart specialisation, which helps regions to promote emerging industries and new value chains and business models – leading, we hope, to breakthroughs for the circular economy transition. that is our objective. we welcome this discussion.
on behalf of the ppe group. first of all, i would like to congratulate rapporteur škrlec on his report and also on his excellent cooperation and on the way he has taken into account the suggestions made by our shadow rapporteurs. the circular economy action plan builds on the activities already carried out in previous years under cohesion policy and other policies in this field in the european union. the 150 billion, roughly estimated over the period 2014-2020, are certainly very important for the transition to this area. policies are both within cohesion policy, agricultural policy, and in other areas such as horizon. in particular, i welcome the so-called bio-based industries joint undertaking, which is allocating up to eur 1 billion to the bioeconomy. with this area of the circular economy, and in conjunction with all the european funds, we are making a big push towards environmental objectives, resource use and, at the same time, green jobs. these jobs are usually in rural areas, where it is also more difficult to create new jobs. i hope and i am sure that it is our common task to ensure that sufficient funds are also available in the new financial perspective after 2020 within the framework of cohesion policy, because the funds allocated to the circular economy are funds for our future. i look forward to working with you on cohesion policy and also to helping regions, municipalities across europe through new actions.
in writing. all the heads of government have so far stressed the importance of cooperation and trust in their speeches to the european parliament. sadly, though, this cooperation and unity are not felt. when it comes to the crucial issues of our future, some people still hold on to their ideas, even though they have proven to be unacceptable to others. we heard today that there is no need to accept new agreements if the old ones are not being implemented. it is right to look to the future, but it is more important at this moment to come together to find solutions to the challenges of the present. the security situation, the migration crisis, the state of the economy, the ageing population, the inconsistent and ineffective foreign policy, brexit are all issues where we need to find common ground and act immediately. the answers to these questions will also have a profound effect on our future. i don't want them to lose faith in democracy, the rule of law, and human rights. but i also don't want you to lose your identity.
the question of the circular economy and cohesion policy is extremely important, particularly because it must be incorporated into the whole cycle of the so-called cohesion policy, which must be targeted and one of the important objectives of the circular economy must also be to protect the environment, health and food. and that's where we come to one of the most pressing issues of our future, and that is waste management, plastic management, which is one of the biggest challenges, also for the circular economy, and if we take this seriously and also with the available resources that we have, we can reduce plastic as a hazardous resource very dramatically, and that also means a better future for food, for health and also for the environment. it is therefore important to understand the circular economy and cohesion policy through concrete objectives.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report, which i wholeheartedly support. statistics are very much needed in agriculture, european agriculture is very diverse and if we want to respond to challenges such as how to respond to the high concentration of land, how to respond to the problem of the ever-decreasing number of young entrepreneurs, we first need to have good data. from this data, which we have to some extent already, we can see how different european agriculture is. and how we will also need a basis in the new agricultural policy to be able to adapt these strategic agricultural programmes in individual countries to the ownership structure, the age structure of the owners. on the other hand, there is also an increasing demand for transparency in the use of money, for traceability of products, which is why it is all the more important to have quality data, well processed, and as my colleague mr szanyi said, also digitisation in rural areas in the smart villages project.
in writing. mr chancellor, welcome to the european parliament. thank you for your presentation, which is extremely ambitious. your priority on immigration in this house is stirring up a lot of emotions. i'm just glad we finally have someone who wants action, not just words. migration policy has clearly suffered a setback under the auspices of europe's largest states. some of the measures we have taken in the european parliament are not enough to effectively stem the flow of people from the middle east and africa. the european union still consists of 28 countries, and each is entitled to its own opinion and position. no amount of coercion or punishment of dissenting states will save illegal migration. sadly, migration is increasingly seen as a big business, even as human trafficking. the criminals who do this could not have been so successful without the help or at least the quiet approval of politics. we must tackle this with all the resolve we can muster. - thank you. - thank you.
mr. president, i have to ask you... no wonder people are scared. dangerous populism and fear-mongering rhetoric, not based on facts, are winning out among european leaders. this year alone, less than 95% of the new arrivals have made it onto european soil, so it has decreased with the transition. we have been left without the urgently needed concrete european solutions, without the important dublin regulation, on which we worked hard in the european parliament for two years, and instead of european agreements, we have created bilateral agreements, and we have shifted the problems and challenges to third countries. these external platforms, mr. president, will not work for the landing. first, because the member states are not willing or willing to do so, and the union needs their agreement. secondly, because the scheme is voluntary and because we are again creating the dublin problem: who will be responsible for the requests for treatment, and on the basis of what key will the refugees be resettled in the countries of the union? the quota? have we learned nothing? and, my friends, without european solutions, we will seriously jeopardise the schengen area, which we already have. what kind of europe do we want to live in? in europe, with the army on the border, which austria staged last week on the border with slovenia, where it had military police operations, and only returned 13 refugees to my country this year. those who spread fear are the greatest threat to europe and they must be stopped before it is too late.
mr. president tusk, i would like to thank you for your service. i am drawing closer to the majority of members who are positive about the conclusions of your council, mainly because of the voluntary nature of the solidarity mechanism, because of the greater possibility of setting up regional centres as soon as possible, including transit centres, because you are closer to a comprehensive approach to effective border control, also because of the objective of destroying the business model of smugglers, and because by 2020 we will have 10 000 security officers at the external border. in the field of defence, too, it is a step forward, it is a measure to increase investment in defence, as well as to coordinate investment policies in the arms industry. the only negative thing about all this is that the conclusions are not very concrete, not very workable.
the conditions in which drivers work are unacceptable, not always, but very often, and we need clear rules to protect them. it is also clear that the transport sector cannot, because of its specific nature, have exactly the same rules as other sectors. but, of course, we must be careful. too strict a rule would have the opposite effect. those drivers could lose their jobs. i'm particularly concerned that under the guise of protecting drivers, they'd be playing a subtle role in reducing competition. the fact is that for eastern european transport companies, this will be a big deal. so we have my strong yes to greater protection for workers and my equally strong no to protectionism. i think that the compromise we have on the table, which was reached in committee, is a good compromise and removes all these concerns.
census is as old as mankind. it is used for different statistics and allows for different interpretations. with the development of democracy, new technologies, and social knowledge, such censuses are becoming more and more a count of earthlings, and less attention is paid to religious, ethical, sexual, and other affiliations or orientations of people. because in a globalized, written world, this should really be of interest to us to the point of subtlety. such a modern, more efficient and less costly way of taking the census is used in the union by the netherlands, denmark, finland and slovenia. and then in italy, the ultra-retrograde matteo, mocking the european union, fundamental rights, the italian constitution and european law, suddenly announces a census of the roma. he simply adds that the measure is full and that he cannot expel the italian roma. if you don't see the danger, you should look again in your history books. italian history alone is telling. under public pressure, and after being unsuccessful in his right-wing colleagues, salvini tried to moderate his statements. it's too transparent an experiment! today the roma, tomorrow the handicapped, then the whole world. ladies and gentlemen, dear europeans, such a declaration by a man who is, after all, the minister of the interior of a founding member of the union, is worthy of immediate action, because when matteo salvini and his clique wear black shirts, there will be no elegance, no laughter, no democracy, it will only be too late. on behalf of the citizens who elected us, please, let's stop the xenophobic rhetoric that reminds us of fascism, the dark period of italian history.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. we have another legislative package ahead of us, which is aimed at securing and strengthening the union's external borders. but how effectively and at whose expense, i wonder. the etias system will require travellers to obtain a prior travel authorisation, which will not be an entry permit, in exchange for payment. the system will thus have major implications for travel and crossing of the schengen border itself and for fundamental rights, in particular privacy. we have been forced to adopt many such measures in parliament in recent years in exchange for maintaining an open europe and abolishing internal border controls. i wonder if etias is really necessary or what the goal is. the negotiations did not resolve many issues adequately. the commission should be able to assess the compatibility of the proposed amendments with the union law, in particular with the provisions of the schengen acquis, and should be able to assess the compatibility of the proposed amendments with the union law. we also do not know how the system will work in practice, especially at land borders. even the most security-oriented country, the united states, doesn't have that kind of experience. how will the commission prevent the collapse at the border that we saw when it introduced systematic passenger checks in databases at the slovenian-croatian border last april? i myself have concerns about etiasa, in particular the consequences that the system will bring to the western balkans region. i therefore urge the commission, in the course of its preparation, to examine all the implications in a realistic manner and not to rush into the introduction of such a system, which will be difficult to implement in practice.
mr president, i am pleased greece has succeeded and wish to thank the prime minister for his share in that, as well as for his efforts to stabilise the balkans. we can’t have one strong european union with different understandings of the dignity of human person and the rule of law. i don’t think that neoliberalism is the main european problem, but rather a lack of political will to do more together. we can succeed in working together only if we really believe and respect the same values, principles and rules. we get into trouble when we don’t respect our common rules. prime minister, you mentioned the eurozone, and i would like to ask you, can you tell us a little bit more about your vision of democratisation of the eurozone and how you would strengthen the role of the european parliament?
mr. president, mr. prime minister orban, this debate is not against hungary! slovenia, my country, is fond of hungary. this debate is against your policy of intolerance, lies and intimidation, which is dangerously spreading across european borders, including into my country of slovenia, where your sister party has very openly used your methods of intimidation in the recent political election campaign. this is one example i want to illustrate by asking where we europeans are safer, whether in paris with masked and armed members of the armed forces or in sunny budapest with tourists. you say this report is what offends the hungarians. it is this campaign that unfortunately offends all europeans, and it is against this that we must fight, not against hungary. and i regret that we are forced today in the european parliament to discuss once again the state of democracy and the rule of law in one of the member states. and we reject that very, very clearly. that is why i express my support for tolerance, dialogue, democratic values, for dignity, for the human person. hungarians really do not deserve to have their countries, their state of affairs, seriously threaten their basic social order and democracy. that is why i will be voting in favour of the report tomorrow, with my full support for my colleague mrs sargentini.
mr president, mr president, mr president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. mrs sargentini's report attempts to amplify or transform political issues into problems allegedly caused by systemic sources in hungary. at the same time, it touches on issues in areas outside the union's competence, such as social and educational policy, which must of course remain the domain of the member states. subsidiarity is one of the fundamental principles of our union, the division of powers between the union and the member states must be respected. otherwise, we're risking a lot. the most worrying is the double standards often used by the european left. they're usually on the hook for a right-of-center government. when it came to the blatant violation of the rule of law in slovenia, she did not react because she was in power there on the left. i have already mentioned several times in this place that just before the elections, the opposition leader, jan jan janša, was illegally imprisoned, and then his mandate was taken away. where were you then, you guardians of the rule of law? where are you today when we need clear answers from the maltese and slovakian governments regarding investigations into the murders of journalists? not to mention romania. i would remind you, and this has been confirmed today by the vice-president of the european commission, that the european commission did not consider it necessary to initiate the procedure under article 7 of the treaty. in this context, the commission has been closely monitoring and analysing the hungarian situation for several years, as we heard earlier. and mrs. sargentini only spent one day in hungary. who are we supposed to believe now? of course i'm voting against the report.
in writing. copyright legislation needs to be updated also at the digital level, as it must follow the times and the places. it is true that the opening procedure was not transparent and that the report contained a number of critical points. the changes we have on the table now are good and ready to be coordinated with the council. the report now regulates this area in such a way that the rights of users and the rights of creators and publishers are proportionately protected. all creators deserve a fair wage for their work and protection from the big platforms exploiting their work for their own profit. as a member of the committee on employment and social affairs, i simply cannot ignore this. the european parliament is working to ensure that competition in the digital single market is as complete as possible and to create an environment in which authors will be able to exercise all the rights they have, in proportion, of course, to the impact of this directive on businesses. micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are exempted from the directive, and the contested filters are no longer mandatory. i therefore support the revised text. thank you for your hard work and persistence!
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the date of demolition of the bedouin village of khan al-ahmar represents just another step by the israeli authorities towards a situation where reaching a real and not just hypothetical two-state solution to the long-standing israeli-palestinian conflict will not be possible anymore. this is the reason why parliament should echo the statement of the high representative as well as the joint statement by france, germany, italy and spain. they have all called on the israeli government not to go ahead with its plan to demolish the village, including its school, and forcibly displace its residents. a couple of years ago i had the possibility to visit khan al-ahmar and listen to its inhabitants, who obviously knew a long time ago that their future had been sealed. nevertheless, they have been using all legal possibilities to prevent a divorce scenario from happening. the decision of the israeli high court of justice of 5 september did not come as a surprise, either for the bedouins or for us. israel is once again proving that it does not abide by international law, notably the 4th geneva convention, which prohibits the forcible transfer of a population unless the security of the population or imperative military reasons so demand. with our resolutions, we will once again call on the israeli government to put an end to its policy of humiliation, threat and demolition against the bedouin communities and palestinians living in the west bank. this is definitely not in israeli interests.
in the european union, the only borders that are open are those of capital. they're closing themselves off to people. xenophobic outbursts are no longer just mindless chatter, they're becoming part of an argumentation strategy. it closes the door to criticism of xenophobic discourse and increases the pressure to accept such rhetoric as normal practice. populist leaders are spreading fear of an imaginary crowd, and the refugee crisis is being used as a cover for the crisis of european institutions. the fundamental flaw is the lack of a common asylum policy, which should be based on solidarity. before the elections, the european union faces a choice: either to resort to radical xenophobia or to radical social change. if it is to survive, we who believe in its achievements must strive to preserve european values. the opposite path leads to the closure of the nation states.
mr president, i therefore regret that the proposals to improve both articles 11 and 13, these most contentious articles, were not adopted and that, unfortunately, a proper balance was not struck between the right and the need to protect authors and, on the other hand, the so-called freedom of the internet as we know it today. the internet, that is, as a communication technology, as a social state of connection, as an amplifier of social relations. and the internet, if this bill is passed in this form, will no longer be the internet that we know. and i think that in this way, of course, by allowing the use of filters or these control mechanisms, this identification of the use of these platforms can also be grossly interfered with, which also implies a hidden danger of so-called filtering (interruption due to a microphone off). i'm sorry about that. i merely summarise the words of the united nations rapporteur on freedom of expression, who stressed that the proposed directive could introduce a regime of active surveillance and prior censorship of user content, which is incompatible with international law and the covenant on civil and political rights. and so this text absolutely needs to be corrected and supplemented and allowing the use of these control filters can of course also establish a system called big brother and then we can also turn the internet into a filternet. and so i regret that by rejecting the amendments and the compromises that were rejected, we have failed to achieve this much-needed balance between the necessary protection of copyright on the one hand and the free use of the internet on the other.
madam president, the policy we are discussing today is being created mainly by younger people, so it is not too much to remind someone like me, who has already retired and returned to the world of the living, that youth is also fleeting, that we are increasingly older, and that even those who still avoid serious discussions and decisions concerning the older generation will soon be left alone in their old age, when they will be overtaken by low pensions, poor health and other hardships of old age. it is clear that the demographic trends we are seeing will no longer be able to dispense with the knowledge, experience and maturity of older people who are willing to be active in their later years. during this mandate, we have dealt with the problems of the elderly more than in previous years. we are looking for the european parliament's place in the discourse on how to ensure a secure and dignified old age, a decent pension. of course, this varies from country to country. however, it should be within frameworks that ensure that nowhere in europe are pensioners and older people, people with special needs and health problems pushed to the margins of society, on the edge or beyond the poverty line. we see that member states are facing these problems in different ways, experimenting with systems, and the all too common practice is to adapt pension systems to more immediate budgetary needs. we are not looking for a universal and ubiquitous model, but good solutions are worth studying and imitating.
madam president, it is good that we have been talking more and more recently about pensions and the pension system, also at the level of the european union. it is certainly a field that concerns all europeans. but regardless, i am in favour of keeping the pension system and its arrangements subject to subsidiarity in the individual countries. providing access to social protection for all is certainly one of the values and objectives we have in the european union, one of which we are proud of, and that is why i myself support the public system and the first pillar of pension insurance as the one that provides basic security. however, with the demographic picture deteriorating, other options need to be considered. but i would point out that these other options do not mean the exclusion or reduction of the first pillar, but rather they are complementary and complementary. i am of course glad to see this and i support our discussions on the so-called pan-european pension product, which will also offer such additional possibilities for old-age insurance. with the increasing mobility of our workforce, it is of course essential to provide such a single product at european level. and there is another important point i would like to make: pension systems must also keep pace with the times. what was sustainable 50 years ago, when we had a completely different relationship between employees and retirees, is not sustainable today. this is why countries must ensure that their systems are also modern and keep pace with the times, and that they provide decent pensions for all their pensioners.
so, madam president, the plastic challenges that we face are important for the economy, for the economy, for the environment, and most importantly for our health, because the consequences of consuming microplastics are really catastrophic. and if humanity has lived so many years and centuries without plastic, when plastic became then a challenge and a development concept of humanity, now of course it can also become our tomb. but as much plastic as we produce is also, of course, a product of the consumer society. and i think it's time that we also think about this whole package, that we're trying to influence companies to make products that are not just for single use, and to bring the way we understand and handle plastic to consumers, because ultimately, it all ends and it all starts in the mind. so we have the responsibility of europe on the one hand, and the responsibility of the member states, local communities and of course each individual on the other. only together, of course, can we defeat this evil for the common good.
madam president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am very grateful to my colleague, the rapporteur, karin kadenbach, for going so deeply into one of the most difficult health problems we face in the european union and producing such a thorough and comprehensive report. we're losing more and more people, and there's no new antibiotics in sight. but we have opportunities to reduce the burden of antimicrobial resistance, and i'm glad that we're very clear in this report, where in paragraph 104 we explicitly refer to the use of probiotics, which have been shown or proven by several scientific studies to be very effective and to reduce infection in hospitals by up to 90%. every percentage is thousands of victims that would not have been killed by the most effective means. and here it seems that the common market in the european union is not working, because if it didn't, we would use more probiotics. we're not going to reach europe with more victims of antibiotic resistance. and i would like to see the whole common market come into play in this area too.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. thank you for your words, and congratulations to the reporters for a job well done. the commission president, mr juncker, said yesterday that there must be no difference between north and south, east and west. is that really the case? this is not the case in the food sector either, because practice and evidence have shown that we have food of a double quality, that products are in the same packaging with different contents, and this is clearly an unlawful commercial practice which should be sanctioned accordingly. we need proper control of the functioning of the market to prevent this so-called illicit practice from happening, which establishes second-class citizens, which in a way establishes, to put it bluntly, food apartheid. i think that we as parliament and the commission must put an end to this, and the vines are being used as an excuse by producers to adapt to local preferences, because who can claim that some are prepared or that they deserve worse food, of poorer quality, and that this is not properly labelled, of course. so we need to take sharp and precise measures.
justice, equality, these are the fundamental values on which the european union is based. and if these values are to apply anywhere, they must apply to food, to our most sensitive item, namely food products and, indeed, to basic foodstuffs. we are called upon to point out what is happening, that it is not fair, that it is not fair, that it is criminal in fact, that with misleading labels or with content such as palm oil, we can flood the markets of eastern europe, the markets of central europe, and in the west we can avoid this. it is therefore right that this report has been adopted, that it will be adopted. congratulations to all the reporters and all the shadow reporters for a good report. but together we now have the task of putting the finishing touches to the commission's work, to ourselves and to consumer pressure, on this most sensitive market.
rapporteur. – madam president, today we simply vote on the mandate for trilogues for kosovo visa liberalisation. this is not a final vote. however, the credibility of this house is very much at stake. kosovo has fulfilled all the criteria for visa liberalisation, and now it is our job to deliver. we have done the same in all other cases, such as moldova, ukraine and georgia, and i would ask you to vote in favour and to approve the mandate of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. kosovo’s citizens deserve that.
hello, my dear commissioner. i am very pleased that we are talking today about the rural, mountain and remote areas agenda and, as we have said today, today is the right time to do so, because we are in the period of the new financial perspective and much will depend on what we do in the new financial perspective. 80% of the territory, 57% of the population live in these areas, we know that the gdp is much lower and the key consequence of all this is the displacement of people from these areas and this needs to be stopped by any means. the demographers' prediction that by 2050 as many as 80% of europeans will live in metropolitan regions must not be realised. as you mentioned, the smart villages action, which is an activity that i and my colleague tibor šani are running here in parliament, is also being run by three commissioners in the commission area, and in this activity we want to present what needs to be done. ensure quality jobs on the one hand and quality living conditions on the other. because it is for young people as well as for the elderly, that is, for all generations, and without the help of cohesion funds, the funds from the rural development programme will be practically impossible to meet. something that in a big city can be a business case, a business model, in the countryside requires public support, especially in the beginning. in this activity we are talking about the basic area of agriculture, but it certainly needs to be complemented by other things such as tourism, social services, education, education, small business, because today the countryside is much more than just a basic agricultural activity. the synergies between all the funds, the coordinated agenda in this area are the key to ensuring that the whole of europe will be inhabited in the decades to come and that we can have cohesion in our society.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i will be very critical of the austrian presidency. you say that we must tackle the challenges of migration at all levels, but unfortunately you are doing the opposite. you're directing all your energy exclusively to safety. the security of europeans is crucial, i agree, but there will be no security if we build a fortress europe, if we do not have effective european migration and asylum policies and if people outside europe's walls continue to die. managing migration does not mean improving security. we passed all the necessary legislation in the european parliament before the summer, we negotiated in good faith and reached an agreement with the european governments, and now you want to break it. i'm speaking as rapporteur for the international protection criteria regulation, and that's not the only deal you want to break. your country is also seriously undermining schengen by unjustifiably extending internal border controls, including at the border with my country slovenia, and i find it difficult to explain this to my citizens, so i call on you to lead the union much more responsibly and sensibly by the end of the year, because we care about what is happening to europe.
mr president, the paris agreement must not be a mere set of commitments that will never be fulfilled, and we all have a responsibility for this, including the european union and the biggest polluters. air pollution is killing millions of people around the world, and europe is no exception, and we need radical and drastic action. and the automobile industry also contributes a significant share. and i'm convinced that with actions that could be much more ambitious, we can reduce co2 in the air, but that will also mean restructuring the automotive industry and finding new alternatives to oil, gasoline, including electric vehicles and other forms of energy. and of course, we can't compromise here, because health, of course, is no compromise, and so we have to be very determined and very firm about it. and above all, the fact that we have to protect the consumer here as well and not mislead him, which we do a lot.
in writing. romania is another country with a socialist government in power and where it is clear that the rule of law is not working. it was clear from the debates of the members, especially those of the socialist type, that they had a double standard in their treatment of individual countries. while they were very critical in their discussion of hungary, this time their tone was more conciliatory or they were quite silent. this is a clear indication that the rule of law is not being upheld in a spirit of fairness and equality. in the last ten years, almost a fifth of romania's population has emigrated, which is worrying. it is an indicator of the state of society that we are facing in slovenia. part of this is the apathy that manifests itself in voter abstention. we must fight against this and demand that dishonest and corrupt policies be removed from the political space. not by political persecution, but by the fair and just standards that should be applied in a country where the rule of law is truly respected. the apathy in the elections is followed by emigration, which is the result of the loss of hope that people can find a better future at home.
mr prime minister, thank you for your clear and firm pro-european words and congratulations on an excellent presidency. as a person who is particularly concerned with health issues, i would like to ask you if estonia has any specific new ideas on how to improve health in the european union, we cannot make more of europe with more patients. and health is one of the key challenges, and i would like europe to show more unity here as well.
thank you very much for your words, madam chair. the idea of a minimum income is not new, of course. it's already being successfully implemented in many countries, and i'm advocating it myself, and i'll say right away that i'm not talking about universal basic income or minimum wage, because these terms are too often confused. and we need to get this straight so we don't get any wrong ideas, because there's been a lot of confusion in this room today, too. i'm talking about the fact that all citizens should be able to get help, which can be called a minimum income or a social transfer, when they justifiably need this help. but when we talk about it at european level, we must of course be mindful of subsidiarity, we must take account of the different economic developments between countries and we cannot impose coercion, but we can encourage member states to define an appropriate minimum income in their national legislation. but a minimum income must not be just a right that is taken for granted. this right must also be linked to obligations and responsibilities, and we often pass regulations here in parliament where we forget about this reciprocity. in europe we want to maintain the social standard to which we are accustomed, and our standard is the highest in the world. that's good. that's good. at the same time, we must be careful not to underestimate the importance of work and decent pay for work, the relationship between the minimum wage and the minimum income, which, as we can see from this debate, is in fact social assistance, at the expense of high social rights. this ratio is completely inappropriate in some countries, including my own, and it does not encourage people to actively seek work, but encourages them to be passive. we have to be careful with our politicians.
mr president, today's debate is a story about people who are offered a safety net, like that of acrobats, by the european pillar of social rights and the european parliament's resolution of october last year, but it is a safety net that is supposed to keep people from falling into poverty. yes, the poverty. because even today we have to remember the european commission's data that 119 million citizens of the union, or a quarter of all its citizens, live below the poverty line and social exclusion even after receiving social benefits. excessive income inequality is detrimental to social cohesion and also hinders sustainable economic growth. growth alone does not solve the problem of social exclusion. in times of crisis, those with the lowest incomes will be much more affected than those who have been provided with material security and wealth by economic growth. the different levels of development of the countries of the european union are also reflected in the plight of the most disadvantaged citizens. we know that the problems cannot be solved by policies at the level of the european union, but it is clear that a life of dignity and worth requires more coherent definitions and guidelines that are understandable to citizens. these should be a reminder to the union, not just to individual countries, that a decent life, even with a minimum income, is a fundamental human right.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. mr president, thank you for your speech. first, of course, congratulations to the reporter on a brilliant report. it is true that public procurement can be an excellent tool for achieving many policies, and this was the purpose of public procurement, not only in the economic but also in the social, labour law, environmental, health, gerontological and demographic change fields. and of course, public procurement has shown a lot of good things, but also some negative things. what is bad is that the european commission also estimates as much as 2 billion euros of corruption in public procurement, which is definitely too much and where the state authorities must act decisively. and in some areas too, public procurement has proved to be a burden or a hindrance rather than a great asset, and one of those things is food, especially food for our most vulnerable populations, such as children, the elderly and the sick. and in this part, i think we should take it a step further, be bolder, because if we provide healthy, locally grown food to these most vulnerable populations, we can make a big impact. first, we are dramatically improving the health of our population, reducing food waste, reducing unfair practices, shortening the journey from farm to farm, preserving and developing rural areas and creating greater self-sufficiency and, of course, new jobs. these are effects that can be measured and that basically say that if we consider only the lowest price in a public procurement or if we put health and price on the scale afterwards, then it is clear that we must put health first or, of course, give it priority. i therefore think that in this public procurement package it is necessary to give serious consideration to whether it is the sector in particular that should be considered for exclusion from the public procurement system, because i believe that we also have a duty to ensure that our citizens have a higher quality and health.
mr commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. plant and animal species don't read resolutions, they disappear before our eyes. and the situation is alarming, bees are at risk, other pollinators are at risk, and so is the human species. i share the ambition to halt biodiversity loss by 2020, but do we realize how much time we have left to do anything about it? the time is up. but i am glad that the rapporteurs, with norbert lins at the head, say in their report what is essential: that immediate, concrete and additional action is needed. european and global joint action is needed. but i am convinced that the only way to change the climate is to change our development and economic paradigm.
in writing. i welcome the proposed legislation as it tighten up the maximum available limit value for certain environmental pollutants such as lead and other harmful bacteria, while introducing new upper limits for certain endocrine disruptors. member states should take measures to ensure universal access to clean water in the eu. they should also effectively improve access to drinking water in public places, for example by installing drinking fountains where this is reasonable and feasible. the use of tap water, whether free or affordable, should be encouraged in restaurants and catering establishments. we are already doing all this in my member state, and i am very proud of it.
so the european citizens' initiative right to water was signed by almost 1.9 million european citizens, demanding that universal access to water be recognised in european legislation. but not just any water, but pure water, no microplastics, no hormone disruptors, no other harmful substances in the water. this, of course, requires appropriate monitoring. but this proposal, which we're going to be discussing tomorrow, in some ways is not ambitious enough to make universal access to clean water mandatory. that's why we must insist on keeping the provisions strong tomorrow. of course, you should also be encouraged by what we have in my country, the republic of slovenia, which is that we have inscribed the right to clean drinking water in our constitution as a human right and this can be a good example for this parliament too.
i myself, as a shadow rapporteur on the econ committee, have looked at single-use plastic in detail, and it is true what my colleagues say: we are drowning in plastic, we are using it even where its use has no meaning, no sustainable reason, except that the market has created this need. i think that this directive does not place enough emphasis on education. it's a habit to change, but not overnight, and that's why i want to make more of an awareness, a learning about the damage we're doing to the environment. it may be unthinkable today for most of the population to abandon unnecessary single-use plastic packaging, but let me remind you, we used to drive unprepared in our cars, too, and that's different today. it wasn't the penalties that helped, it was the extensive campaigning. but despite all its shortcomings, i am of course in favour of the directive and i am glad that we will be voting in favour of it on wednesday.
in many respects, the social and employment field has been neglected for a long time, and i am glad that we are giving more attention to this area, even with a separate report this time. although, as has been said, we can be pleased with the reduction in unemployment, especially among young people, there is still one very big challenge in the labour market, and that is how to match supply and demand. technological advances, digitization, globalization, are presenting us with completely new expectations for the skills of our workforce, and our education systems are not catching up fast enough. in addition to the content, the development of the social security system also implies the adaptation of the legal and formal forms of employment relationships to these new forms.
all media, and especially publicly owned media, would be expected to provide people with objective and balanced information. it is unacceptable that banners with death threats against members of the opposition party appear on public television, that frank political pressure is used to try to stop programmes that reveal to the people a history that the former communist regime denies, that journalists seeking the truth are threatened and prosecuted. all of this is unfortunately a reality in slovenia. it's also a reality that most journalists are trapped in overwork, perhaps to be more obedient. i also strongly reject public calls to silence dissent and the misuse of public media for political purposes. i therefore call on the presidency and my colleagues in parliament to speak openly and with the same criteria about media freedom in all member states.
i welcome the work programme of the european commission for 2019. the european union is achieving enviable economic results. we need a good agreement on a multiannual financial framework to enable us to face the challenges ahead. migration and security, the challenges of global digitalisation, a deepened monetary union, a fair internal market are just some of the important areas. we cannot afford to reduce the funds for the agricultural and cohesion policies. in addition to the conclusion of negotiations in a number of areas and the adoption of the open proposals still under discussion, we must not forget the long-term objectives, where we must continue the debate on the future of the european union, especially in the light of possible institutional changes that will strengthen the link and bring it even closer to our citizens.
mr president tusk, how can you say that you are committed to taking action to manage migration? the summit last week missed another opportunity. no progress on any of the issues that were on the table. if we talk about migration, this is not a migration crisis, it never was. it's a crisis of institutions, it's a crisis of governments that can't agree on anything other than how to stop people from going beyond the ever-tightening borders of europe. the austrian presidency wishes to open up agreements already concluded. we have adopted a complete reform of the asylum system in the european parliament, and it remains blocked by the member states. how many times have you put your hands together and promised a breakthrough, and yet you've come to parliament empty-handed? like today. the conclusions speak of enhanced cooperation with africa, the fight against human smugglers, increased border guards, faster return of people, the adoption of a security package, but not a word about legal and legal routes to europe. the renewal of the blue card, the only instrument for legal migration, remains blocked. we cannot and do not want to pass on your empty words to the european citizens, who expect nothing but effective action from us. and debates like today, when some in this room are spreading very dangerous hateful rhetoric, are grossly irresponsible, are political filth. i'm afraid they're no longer in the hall. and with the election fast approaching, we will approach the voters with the same empty hands you have today, because of the inability of governments to reach an agreement. and how is it that you still do not realise that all the problems will be much greater if the future composition of the european parliament is even less pro-european? so act now, before it is too late for a more sensible policy and a sensible europe.
in fact, over a million plastic bottles are sold every minute in the world, and this is just one more example of how plastic has become a part of our daily lives. and of course, knowing that plastic is also the killer of our future, we have to realize that by 2050, if we don't change anything, there will be more plastic in the ocean than there are fish, that this plastic, in fact, is everywhere, it's in food, it's destroying and killing animals, it's been found in humans. so this microplastic, which is also the result of so much plastic being thrown away, is a serious threat to our planet. and while we have to realize, of course, that there are alternatives, and that in fact this fight against single-use plastics is also an opportunity for the economy, for new jobs, we just have to get there in time and invest in research as quickly and effectively as possible to achieve this goal, which is to make plastic waste zero.
i was very pleased to support the report which talks about the direction of the ban on reducing the single-use plastic we use. i am glad that the european union remains the continent that does the most in this area. we're not the biggest polluters of the ocean, of the ocean, of plastic, but we're certainly the ones with the clearest vision of how to stop it. on the one hand, we have very clear measures in the field of waste management and the direction we must take, that is, firstly, to use as little plastic as possible and, on the other hand, to produce what we have in such a way that it can be reused and, above all, recycled at the end of its life cycle. two things are very important in this: first, we need to make people aware that we're going to change our behavior. the youngest among us, who are changing their habits, play a vital role in this. on the other hand, it is important that we invest in developing new technologies to make materials that are much more sustainable and replace these great enemies of our continent.
madam president, i have to go. the adoption of the energy union is one of the key objectives of this mandate of the commission and parliament. i am therefore very pleased to welcome the package of three clean energy regulations. this is true in the area of renewable energy sources, energy efficiency and, of course, the governance of the energy union. reducing energy consumption is certainly the first step, but it is also very important to boost the use of renewable resources, to create new green jobs through this action, to reduce energy poverty and to ensure that europe remains and becomes a leading force in the fight against climate change. we only produce 10% of the world's greenhouse gases, but europe has been showing the world the way for decades. i therefore wholeheartedly support and congratulate both the rapporteurs and the commissioner on the adoption of this package.
madam president, i have to go. i myself, in fact, support the view that when we are talking about such important issues as the limitation of fishing for certain species in the adriatic, we should listen to the fishermen in all seriousness. because fishing is a very difficult profession and fishing is the only source of income for these fishermen, especially the small ones. and so these are very sensitive issues. how to strike a balance between the interests and, of course, the needs of fishermen to generate income on the one hand and to protect the stocks of sardines, anchovies and other fish species, which are in danger of being depleted, on the other. and here i think that long-term measures are needed, which must be based on scientific evidence, not on some short-term needs and measures, and in this way also ensure sufficient renewable fish stocks. otherwise, the fishermen will have nothing to catch.
mr. president, please! as the european parliament's permanent rapporteur on erasmus+, i would like to sincerely thank my colleagues for the wise decision to support a tripling of the budget for the erasmus+ programme. the decision on the mff tomorrow will not be a new vision for europe, but it will be important because it will create the material conditions for further development, a fairer burden-sharing in europe, i.e. without privileges, and so on. it will also mean a significant call for additional own resources of the european union. erasmus+ is one of the most successful european programmes, it is a real added value. thank you, commissioner, for bringing that up. the potential of this programme is far beyond our ability to finance, and therefore there is still not enough money for erasmus+. the success rate in the youth field is extremely low. remember that erasmus+ benefits not only the participants but also the universities, the local communities, and, as erasmus is much more competitive in society, the economies.
mr. president, please! there is always a cost to a decision, and it is usually related to money. the multiannual financial framework will set out guidelines for the amount and use of european money beyond 2020, with the european union leaving the second largest net contributor. europe and the euro must become stronger, and we must therefore strengthen monetary and economic policy. the amount of the member states' contribution and the own resources of the european budget will have to be decided as soon as possible. the objectives we have to achieve will require sufficient resources in areas that are important for our future. we need to encourage research and innovation to strengthen the competitiveness of the european economy and create jobs, invest in cohesion, education and youth, and especially invest in strengthening security to face terrorist threats and migration challenges. it's not wise to weaken the foundations of the house, so we must maintain traditional programs.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the dust being raised recently by the non-binding, political global agreement on migration casts a poor light on europe, challenging the credibility of sincere intentions to address the great global challenges. withdrawing eu countries from the deal encourages a race to be the first to reach the bottom and get closer to trump's way of world order. it believes only in: "everyone for himself", "only us and no one else", and "there are no negative consequences", "promises don't count". is this the future we want? after the us and australia have already withdrawn from the agreement, hungary has announced its withdrawal, then austria, yesterday bulgaria, the czech republic, poland, croatia remain sceptical. the global compact, which will be formally adopted in marrakech as a declaration, does not open the door to migration, does not equate migrants with refugees and is not contrary to international and european law. moreover, the agreement protects the interests of the countries and confirms their sovereignty in managing migration. the agreement is pragmatic even on the most difficult issues and strikes a healthy balance between the rights of states and their general obligations. unfortunately, it is being used by right-wing politicians like orban, or in my country, slovenia, for example, by opposition parties to intimidate and manipulate and to divert attention from other, more important issues. we social democrats remain firmly committed to the global agreement and, under the auspices of the austrian presidency, you have made cooperation and multilateralism agreements one of your priorities in the field of foreign policy. but your actions suggest otherwise. and i wonder whether the present governments in vienna, budapest and warsaw would be able to come to an agreement today and establish a community like the european union? i don't think he did. and what future do you want for future generations?
mr. president, please! for european citizens to be able to truly participate in fair and safe elections, we need fair and secure information, fair policies and educated citizens. we need freedom for fair and safe information, media to operate, they provide all conditions for the safe work of their journalists and are not in the service of interests and pressures, but of objective reporting. second, honest politicians ensure transparency of their own and party activities, funding, advertising and do not use personal and other data for their own interests. and educated citizens, that is, voters who do not allow themselves to be abused by misinformation and social media gossip. all of these areas are already heavily infected in europe, facebook and cambridge analytica have been mentioned, and the appetite for manipulation by third countries, led by russia, and also by private interests is clearly there. we're helping them do that ourselves, because there's growing political opacity, political advertising is incorrect, and we're experiencing anarchy of voting rules. internet trolls, but also real people who, by instruct or by blindness, feed the people by fomenting ideological disputes, and above all by spreading lies, are riding their wave. some slovenian media in slovenia have been infiltrated by money seized from hungarian companies linked to hungarian prime minister orban, and this way of financing election propaganda through the media is also a play on legislation. and the misuse of the internet, of communication tools, the intimidation and manipulation of citizens by politicians, media or anyone is unacceptable, irresponsible and must be prevented. we must protect the european elections, democracy and the european people, who must have all the conditions to decide freely and fairly on the kind of europe we want to live in, as well as the integrity of this institution. and the european parliament and the european commission have taken some steps in the right direction over the past year, and countries need to ensure that they implement the measures and punish the violators strictly. the same applies, of course, to us politicians and political parties.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that we are here today to discuss and vote on lyme disease, which is becoming a growing public health challenge. i am grateful to commissioner jourova for the commission's comprehensive reply. i come from slovenia, which is one of the top countries in europe and the world for this disease, and i have personal experience with it. borreliosis is a bacterial disease that is difficult to detect, diagnose and treat in a timely manner. so many patients are misdiagnosed and mistreated. the number of people affected is increasing, and climate change is accelerating the spread of disease. we don't have a registered vaccine yet to prevent the disease. we have very different practices across member states, and patients have higher costs as a result. a common approach at european union level is needed. we need common databases, more joint research and common treatment guidelines. we therefore call on the commission to draw up a european plan to combat lyme disease.
mr president, on behalf of the s&d group, i request the council and commission statement on the preparation of the marrakesh intergovernmental conference of 10 and 11 december on the un global compact for migration to be the second item on thursday morning. why now, and why again, after it was on the agenda of the plenary in strasbourg? we see growing insecurity in member states and a debate which has become so critical that in parliament, we should use this last occasion before marrakesh to stress the importance of global cooperation to tackle global challenges. in parliament, back in april, we supported the global compact for migration with a big majority and if all over europe, the un compact is being debated, parliament should use this last opportunity to strengthen its voice.
on behalf of the s&d group. after my recent visit to serbia, i cannot be too optimistic. the discrepancy between the union's written documents and the actual situation in the country seems to be exceptional. while serbia has favourable economic indicators, concerns remain over the rule of law, the deep polarization of society and media freedom. here is an example of one of the headlines in serbia: "dogs are being dropped" with a photo of the few who still manage to criticize out loud, and this is unacceptable, it distances serbia from the union. the people in serbia tell me they want to be part of the union, they want more jobs and higher wages, less corruption, a working legal system. the union will never be complete without serbia, but a serbia in which we read about a healthy democracy instead of news about beaten-up opposition members, in which relations with kosovo are in order instead of nationalistic passing of the ball, a serbia that young people are proud of and have a vision of at home. and that is the kind of serbia i see in the union and that is the kind of serbia i will continue to advocate.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr david mcallister, for his conscientious and quality work. on behalf of the alde group, i can assure you that we support the integration of serbia into the european union and i welcome the progress made so far in the negotiations on the legislative adjustments that will make this possible. as a shadow rapporteur, however, i would also like to make some critical remarks: serbia will have to do more to respect the rule of law, to establish truly pluralist, democratic relations in its parliament and to respect the opposition and its role, to ensure the freedom of the media, which is seriously threatened, and the safety and integrity of journalists, especially investigative journalists, those who are critical of the government. a higher level of communication culture is needed, eliminating hate speech, both in domestic use and in serbia's international communication with its neighbours. such a serbia, and only such a serbia, will be a welcome member of the european union in the future.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. first of all, of course, i would like to thank my colleague mr mcallister for the excellent work he has done in preparing this report. it is clear from the foregoing that serbia has made progress in several areas during the period under review: public administration reform, market economy, economic growth, macroeconomic, monetary stability and progress in the fight against corruption and organised crime. but of course, as serbia is an important player in the region itself, it is all the more important to monitor and also react to certain statements by the most prominent representatives, which can sometimes be misleading. that is why certain amendments have been tabled. what i would like... (the president shall decline to take the floor. )
i was interrupted before i finished my speech, so i had a few thoughts to go on. the fact is that in addition to these signs of progress and chapters showing that serbia is on the right track, there are of course other topics and areas where there is a lot of room for improvement. my colleagues have already mentioned freedom of speech and freedom of the press. in particular, the observations of serbian ngos show that there is still a great deal of room for improvement. and this communication with the non-governmental sector, i think, is one of the opportunities for the completely different picture of the situation in serbia, represented by the government or by the non-governmental organization, to start to converge. and as rapporteur for kosovo, i would naturally like to see the constructive dialogue between belgrade and pristina continue. of course, raising tariffs is not the answer, and i think both sides need to sustain activities that worsen relations. and there is much work and progress to be made.
(ppe) and congratulations, david, on a very good and balanced report. i agree with the part where you point out the shortcomings in the progress in the area of the rule of law, freedom of the media. i am glad that you can also highlight the progress in the field of economy, which is crucial for serbia to prosper and for young people to stay in serbia, which is a key condition. i also congratulate and thank mr hahn, who has done a great job in the western balkans and i think he is doing what is most needed to improve regional cooperation. the recent cases of the kosovo customs, which i strongly condemn, show how difficult this work is, and congratulations on your work. i am convinced that further work will be needed in this area, as the situation in the relations between serbia and kosovo, serbia and croatia and others needs to be moderated by the european union. i support opening as many chapters as possible, moving forward. without a regional arrangement in which the european union will play a key role, i can hardly imagine serbia joining the european union.
the rapporteur thank you very much, mr president, for your speech. and, of course, a warm welcome to the esteemed commissioner and the council representatives. first of all, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done and for all the suggestions and amendments we have received during the preparation of this report. the guiding principle behind the report is that it is, in a way, a reflection of the areas where progress has been made, and also a reminder of the issues and areas where there are still gaps and where improvements are needed. to highlight some of the key points in the report, i would begin by saying: of course, kosovo has made important progress over the period under review, but progress has not been quite as we would have liked. in many areas we would like more, in many areas there are still visible parts that will need to be improved. the reason lies in external circumstances, but above all in internal ones, because sometimes it seems that the political groups in parliament have difficulty in reaching consensus, and sometimes also the lack of communication between the political groups makes it more difficult for legislation that should be adopted to make its way through parliament. above all, it is important that the laws that are passed in the kosovo parliament are then implemented. because it doesn't help much if we have such good laws and we don't use them. but i would also like to mention one of the most important issues, namely visa liberalization. we have repeatedly stated that kosovo has met all the required criteria, including the ratification of the border with montenegro in march this year, after more than two years of negotiations, effectively opening the door to visa liberalisation. and both the commission and parliament have given the green light to this. and because of the credibility of the european institutions, i think it is also now up to europe to fulfil its part of the agreement, which is to allow visa liberalisation for the people of kosovo and thereby put them on an equal footing with everyone else in the region. when i mention laws, i have to say that kosovo has passed quite a few important laws that can be considered as progress. however, as mentioned, the report also mentions the problems of corruption and organised crime, which are still present, and it seems that a great deal of additional effort will be needed to maximise the independence of the judiciary as well as to further strengthen the record-keeping function of the investigation of high-level corruption prosecutions. this will require the cooperation of many stakeholders, including in the region. of course, in the end, i can't pass by the dialogue between belgrade and pristina and we all want the situation to normalize as much as possible and to move on and continue the talks in finding a solution and fulfilling those requirements that... that both countries have committed to. and of course, the european commission and parliament are watching this very closely. but i would like to point out, and it is necessary to point out, that bilateral relations are not solved by excessive measures and that the introduction of customs duties does not improve relations between pristina and belgrade. and i'm convinced that there needs to be a rethink and a different approach and a reversal of those decisions. and finally, of course, we all want kosovo to move forward on these open questions as well. and here i am sure that the eu can also offer its support and cooperation.
member of the commission. – mr president, i intend to travel to pristina next week. the focus will be on the tariff decisions, but i’m also going to assess the implementation of the european reform agenda. i will be insisting that the kosovan authorities need to get back to the issues that matter for kosovo’s future, namely reforms and engagement in the dialogue. kosovo’s priorities should remain the rule of law, economic development and education. kosovo needs to become an attractive place for business, provide citizens with high—quality education and reduce the very high unemployment levels, in particular among young people. it’s also crucial that kosovo continues to build confidence by demonstrating sustained progress in the fight against organised crime and corruption. the commission is providing strong support for the implementation of these priorities through substantive financial assistance and technical advice. for this part kosovo needs to keep pace with the rest of the region to promote economic growth and foster political stability, which is essential for the security of the western balkans as a whole. regarding dialogue, it’s vital that kosovo and serbia remain committed to the full normalisation of their relations. a comprehensive, legally binding normalisation agreement should be reached as soon as possible. both kosovo and serbia have expressed on many occasions concerns and grievances about their relations. they should be addressed through the dialogue which the european union is committed to continue to facilitate. i would like to conclude by saying that the commission remains strongly committed to driving forward kosovo’s european agenda despite the current difficult political context.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, at the outset of my concluding remarks, let me express my sincere gratitude to the rapporteur of the european parliament on kosovo, igor šoltes. i would like to reiterate that stability in the neighbourhood and the enlargement of the european union is a priority of the austrian presidency. the eu will continue to assist kosovo, including through its presence on the ground. and of course this applies also to visa liberalisation, but the council’s deliberations are currently ongoing and the outcome cannot be pre—judged. the austrian presidency remains committed to moving the process forward. however, the primary responsibility for progress lies with kosovo, its leaders, institutions and civil society. reforms are crucial and they will require consensus across the political spectrum, and the political leaders to live up to their responsibilities for the good of kosovo and of its citizens.
the reporter. so what we have heard today, and what is also written in the report itself, kosovo will not run out of work in the coming years, that is definite, but i would like to say three things in conclusion. i hope that the council has heard what we have said today, that kosovo has fulfilled its conditions for visa liberalisation, and the agreements are there to be respected, of course, and if one side has fulfilled it, it is legitimately expected that the other side will do the same. believe me, the people of kosovo are already eager to see that they are not discriminated against any further and they expect the european union to fulfil its part of the obligation, also in the name of credibility. secondly, i think the government in pristina has heard today that we are not very enthusiastic about the introduction or the increase of customs duties by 100 percent as a means of settling disputes between belgrade and pristina, and i hope that they will reconsider whether this is really an appropriate measure, because the settlement of disputes takes place or is resolved in a different way. the last thing i want to mention is the environment, environmental issues. i think we are also under-reporting the environmental problems in kosovo, and i would like to draw attention here to the serious problem facing pristina, namely air pollution, which is one of the highest in europe. and i think that's where we need to do more in this area and also invest in improvement. and this is of course also linked to the power plants and polluters in the region, so i think this is also one of the things where the european union and kosovo can work well together.
the reporter. mr president, thank you for these few words of personal kindness to macedonia. in the interest of time, i'll cut back on my scheduled performance and concentrate on the most important things. the accession of macedonia to the european union, once the conditions for membership have been met and our promises to this country, which has been on the waiting list for too long, have been fulfilled, will surely ensure the most secure future for the country, for the present and future generations of its citizens, and will at the same time make a concrete contribution to the stability, security and progress of the whole region of south-east europe. the road to macedonia has been steep, but we can see that the democratic will of the people has prevailed in the country, the creative and responsible response of the policy has chosen the path of communication, of establishing balance in the multinational community, of seeking allies in the international community and of finding new ways to strengthen fruitful and friendly relations with neighbouring countries. the resolution under discussion today therefore highlights the constructive role of the macedonian, greek and bulgarian statesmen, who set aside the inherited problems of the past and agreed on common interests for the future. the government and parliament in skopje are faced with a difficult task: firstly, to implement the agreement reached with the greek government on the amendment of the constitution and the consequent settlement of the long-standing name dispute, and then to work hard on the reforms which will be a precondition for the opening of negotiations on the country's future membership of the european union, i hope and believe already next year in june. all this will require the creation of a democratic, inclusive atmosphere in the country, the participation of all political parties, civil society and state institutions. in line with the commitments made, the state will have to modernise its legislative procedures, the judiciary, ensure respect for the rule of law, make room for a truly free and pluralistic media, protect journalists from pressure and violence, and fight organised crime and corruption more effectively. systemic changes in the economy, improvements in the business environment, contract enforcement, the introduction of controls and transparency of data on public procurement, state aid and the use of european union funds, etc. will be needed. the resolution noted, among other things, the government's efforts to improve the living conditions of young people. the government is also called upon to address the problem of long-term unemployment of women in a comprehensive manner. it is important to ensure the continuous and transparent implementation of the obligations under the ohrid agreement and to fully respect the rights and protection of all national and other social minorities. after many years of uncertainty and political crisis, macedonia has reached a position where it can, by its own efforts and will, pave the way to a more promising future as a member of the european union and nato. it is a path from a complicated history in the balkans, often fraught with violence, wars and conflicts, to a future of reciprocity and shared responsibility. it is right that the country should ensure the full independence and functionality of the judiciary, which investigates and sanctions past irregularities and violations of laws. unfortunately, these proceedings were interfered with by the hungarian authorities in an incomprehensible and unacceptable manner. the resolution and amendments tabled by the various parties in this parliament speak volumes about this. i think it is appropriate to emphasise here that macedonia, as a potential candidate for membership of the european union, has always enjoyed the support of the european parliament and can count on that support in the future. i think it is right to highlight the efforts of the commission, commissioner hahn and his team, who also worked with this parliament to persistently seek and find a way out of the complex political contradictions that have hampered macedonia's progress towards european union membership. i would also like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their extremely constructive and substantive cooperation. i don't thank you, mr. president, because i had six minutes, i used four.
the reporter. madam president, i would like to thank all my colleagues who took part in this very interesting debate. i have learned from this debate that the european parliament is still, or is becoming, more and more convinced that macedonia's membership of the european union will add value to our union and will also be an additional guarantee of stability and security in this part of europe. we have also heard some dissonant opinions today, and i would comment on these opinions only by saying that i cannot understand why anyone would prefer to have a neighbour with whom they have open problems and quarrels, rather than a neighbour with whom they share common goals for the future and common interests, especially for the younger generations. i would like to say what many colleagues have concluded today, that macedonia, that macedonian politics, that the macedonian people were willing to accept a very important, a great sacrifice, a great sacrifice, by agreeing to really difficult conditions: a change of the constitution and a change of the name of the country. but they did, and the good news is that the macedonian opposition (also with the support of the brother or sister parties in this parliament) has also recognized the need to support this opportunity, which may be unique and unrepeatable in the history of macedonia and its people. i would therefore like to call on macedonian politicians, the members of the assembly, to actively participate in the ratification of the agreement and to help open the door to the european union and also to nato for their country's membership in these organisations.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, we have called for today's debate because more and more european governments have withdrawn from the global compact for safe, orderly and controlled migration and because we cannot remain silent. we have a political responsibility to explain decisions in a credible way. in april, the european parliament voted overwhelmingly in favour of the global compact, which stresses the importance of human rights being universal. to all those who say that the global agreement to import migrants is a national betrayal or a betrayal of sovereignty and the destruction of western civilization, which are the accusations of the right wing in the slovenian public, i say that such intimidation of people is wrong and misleading. it is a political declaration based on cooperation, sovereignty of states, sharing of responsibility, based on a global, european and national legal order that does not equate migrants with refugees and does not create new legal obligations. we can only solve global challenges together. i just got back from niger state. there, the struggle for a decent life is part of everyday life, as the rich western countries abuse natural resources and people. as long as that is the case, europe will be an attractive continent. that's why a global agreement is so important, so that migration can be safe, controlled and regulated, and that this is a global concern for all of us, which is what europeans expect us to do.
mr president, i am one of those who oppose the marrakesh declaration, mainly because it is not a global agreement, it is neither a global nor a deal. it has already been abandoned by major countries, major global players like the united states, australia, israel, more than a dozen european member states, and it is certainly not a universal agreement. in slovenia, 70 percent of the public is against it. even the political elites could not rally around him, let alone the european and world public. i'm against it, mainly because the text is bad, because it's based on wrong assumptions, and it's also not true that it's not binding, how binding is it if you read it thoroughly, this work. in short, i oppose this deal because it will make the migration management situation worse in the future. the european union should be investing much more, more effort and money in the countries of origin of migration, but this is not how we are going to solve this problem.
mr president, such a global agreement would of course be needed much earlier and would make it much easier for all countries to work together to solve the many problems we face today. and the fact is that this global agreement also means effective management of migration, which is also defending the sovereignty and security of nations, which is what the opponents of this agreement are trying to argue. and also the safety of the weakest in the caravans of fugitives. this declaration, this agreement, has of course great ambitions and if we read all the objectives, which are a summary of the content itself, we see that it offers solutions for which we have not found a suitable agreement to date. and i think it's really unreasonable to reject these kinds of initiatives, and the fact is that the solution can be found by all of us together, but it's very difficult to find it by each country individually, and there are no high fences to help.
rapporteur. – madam president, i request that the matter be referred back to committee for interinstitutional negotiations, pursuant to rule 59(4).
madam president, i support the report that strengthens the life program, including the part where we talk about more resources. i come from slovenia, where we have more than 13 percent of our land protected as protected areas, in nature parks, regional, landscape, almost 38 percent is natura areas. and within those areas, there are a number of life programs that we're pursuing environmental goals with. one of the most important for slovenia is the protection of pollinators, and world bee day is also part of these efforts. i also think that coexistence and awareness are very important in these programs. with five or ten billion dollars, we can't save the environment. but if we align the objectives with agricultural policy, energy policy, cohesion funds, we can do a great deal. and this is an important step in finding a coexistence within these areas of agriculture, tourism, forestry and the creation of products with higher added value. i see opportunities here for life, which is coexistence and awareness.
madam president, cancer in the workplace remains one of the key challenges in the fight against cancer and is the leading cause of death among work-related diseases. i therefore welcome the report by mr rolin, also on behalf of the european parliament's working party on cancer. to be more successful, we need to improve the legislation, and that is what we are doing. each improvement in the directive can contribute to fewer cancers and fewer deaths from them. it is essential that the legislation is clear, that the requirements are very precise and that they are of course implemented at all levels of enterprises, i.e. large, small and medium-sized enterprises. and i think that the requirements already laid down in the basic directive on the elimination and substitution of substances, as well as on limit values, should be maintained. i am pleased that we are adding limit values for seven additional carcinogens or mutagens and i am convinced that the revised directive is a step towards greater protection for workers. but i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need for implementation and revision, for constant attention, and that i am not talking about diesel, which others have already mentioned, because my time has run out.
mr commissioner, dear rapporteur and distinguished colleagues. the decline in trust in institutions did not start yesterday, as we recall from the mad cow disease epidemic. the general food law regulation 15 years ago was an appropriate response to the challenge of that time, but it could not prevent all the scandals that followed. and consumers have become more aware and demanding over the years. it wasn't until we were exposed to glyphosate that we realized we were running out of time. we can agree that we have enough room to manoeuvre to restore citizens' trust in the institutions, but we are running out of time. we're in the midst of an election, and we're gonna have to pay for the work we've done. with this report, we have an opportunity to show the american people that we mean business. if we don't serve them with the scientific rules of safe food today, we're going to have a higher bill tomorrow that we're all going to pay, not just those who insist on playing by the old rules. parliament is the place to find compromises, but we cannot afford to compromise on health. citizens expect faster and more transparent action from efsa, they want to know what information and procedures have been used to determine that food in the market is safe. more transparency will not hurt anyone and efsa will gain more credibility. i understand some of the concerns of my colleague, the rapporteur, mrs sommer, but i am convinced that we can do everything in our power to ensure that the competitiveness of our industry is not affected.
mr president, thank you for this report, which is a response to a citizen's initiative, and those of us who also sat on thursday afternoons in the pest committees have seen how necessary it is for efsa to be strengthened, to be given sufficient resources to ensure that the procedures are as transparent, clear and public as possible, so that people can have and regain confidence in an institution which, on the one hand, is responsible for preventing scandals in the food chain and, on the other, has a key role in the registration of pesticides. it's the same with pesticides as it is with human health. we will probably always need drugs to deal with the failure of the immune system and the failure of the plant to resist all pests or diseases, and we will also need some pesticides for a while, despite what some may think. and here we need to follow the professionalism, to trust the institutions and also to innovate and to grow food in europe. i don't want to be dependent on food from other continents. this report is going in the right direction.
finally, mr president, the european commission has, in this case at least, heeded the call of european citizens for greater transparency in this food chain process and has finally put before parliament a document calling for greater transparency and access to data which are important for assessing the risks posed by various food additives and which can, of course, have a very harmful effect on our health. until now, these findings from various laboratories have been shrouded in secrecy, and the public has no right to know what is happening to the quality of the food that comes onto our plates. we therefore welcome this progress in parliament, in order to improve it and to ensure and safeguard this right to information, which allows for greater transparency and openness, but there is still a certain part shrouded in secrecy, and we must also open it, because the right of the individual to health information must take precedence over the commercial interest of corporations.
mr president, better cooperation between security and intelligence agencies is essential, especially as the smaller member states of the union lack the resources and technical equipment. it is essential to prevent radicalisation, in particular on social networks, and to track the financing of terrorist organisations. we call on the european commission to legislate on the situation of victims of terrorism and we draw attention to the growing violence of neo-fascists and neo-nazis and to the dangerous anti-semitic and islamophobic rhetoric. unfortunately, the stigmatization of migrants is completely unacceptable, any link between asylum seekers and terrorists is unacceptable and we can be ashamed to accept such a report. there are other concerns, electronic records, mandatory telecommunications data storage. we have not been able to make any serious changes to the reports of our colleagues, there is no need to set up a standing committee of the european parliament on security, we have been working for a year and a half and we are being accused by many of having missed a real opportunity and i will therefore be giving serious thought to my own vote tomorrow.
the reporter. thank you very much, madam president, madam commissioner, your excellency, my distinguished colleagues. this week we are finishing one of the most important projects of the european union in the last two mandates. it is not just the financial effects of an enhanced partnership, it is much more. it is important that the european union and japan share a common understanding of global and regional challenges and are willing to work together responsibly to address them. the economic partnership agreement is the largest free trade agreement concluded by the european union to date. the strategic partnership agreement is the most ambitious agreement of its kind to date, upgrading relations with japan to a multi-sectoral and long-term partnership with global impact. both agreements will have a positive impact on the european and japanese economies and strengthen the role of both partners in addressing global and regional challenges. the complementarity of the goods and services elements of the epa is provided for in the strategic partnership agreement with japan covering more than 40 areas of cooperation. the partners commit to work for peace, security, counter-terrorism, poverty reduction, implementation of the paris climate agreement and much more. in doing so, they emphasise their commitment to international law. this agreement is the first of its kind to include a chapter on health. by promoting regulatory harmonisation and research, we will improve access to global markets and, through the use of pooled knowledge, address health challenges. this is particularly important given the challenges that both partners face in an ageing society. we are concluding these two agreements with japan because we not only share common interests, but also the same fundamental values and principles. both agreements express a shared commitment to respect for human rights, democracy, fundamental freedoms, good governance, the rule of law and more. it was a pleasure to be rapporteur for the strategic partnership agreement and to work with the shadow rapporteurs from both mandates. from the beginning, we have been working on a report that is forward-looking. i would also like to thank the main negotiators and their teams for their excellent work and cooperation in a spirit of transparency, trust and shared responsibility. i would also like to thank several japanese ambassadors for following our work and working closely with us. the parliamentary delegations of the european parliament and japan are also thanked for their attention to the work of the negotiators and rapporteurs. and let me conclude by thanking civil society in the european union and japan for their interest. the strategic partnership agreement is not just an achievement, it's a new, great opportunity. i would like to see this agreement dynamically ratified in the member states so that we can start implementing it as soon as possible. of course, i recommend or expect strong support for this agreement tomorrow. thank you for your attention, arigato.
the reporter. madam president, thank you very much for your kind words to all the speakers, to all the colleagues. thank you for the additional lighting, and most importantly for the very unanimous opinion that this is a great project, a great achievement and a great opportunity. i'm glad the vast majority of people understand the big picture. and i expect the big picture and big ambition to prevail tomorrow. this is what the european economy, european citizens and japanese citizens deserve. and the answer to globalization is partnerships that share the same values, the same principles, the same rules.
in writing. as vice-chair of the delegation for relations with japan, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteurs, in particular mr peterlet, and all those involved in the preparation of this agreement. trade in services between the european union and japan is growing steadily and projections indicate that transactions will increase in the future. japan has always been our partner in all areas. i believe that this agreement will allow some european service companies even better and easier access to the japanese market. we are all aware of the predictions of a cooling of our economies, so any opportunity for new jobs in the future will be welcome. japan is the european union's fourth largest trading partner. i call on my colleagues to act responsibly and to support the agreement tomorrow, thus opening a new era of friendship with japan. let me conclude with a saying that i think is familiar to all languages, including japanese: what we sow, we will reap. may our cooperation bear rich fruit.
the reporter. mr. president, we have never had in the history of this house's deliberations an agreement as ambitious as the one with japan. we have made it for the benefit of the citizens of the european union and japan, because we share the same principles and the same values. we have identified more than 40 areas of strategic cooperation, including, for the first time, cooperation in the field of health. and i think this is a great achievement for our negotiators and rapporteurs and a great opportunity for the future of both partners. i recommend we support the cause with strong voices.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the 23 000 registered arrivals in bosnia and herzegovina since the beginning of the year and the 4500 migrants and refugees currently in the area of velika kladuša and bihać are statistics that call for help. the story of refugees who found themselves on the border between bosnia and herzegovina and croatia is very similar to other migrant stories we have seen before, and there is no warm reception from the local population, some political options are exploiting the unfortunate fate of migrants to foment hatred, and fake news is spreading around the country about refugees abducting girls and raping minors. i'm joining some international organizations, even though the situation has improved to provide the country with the necessary financial assistance. you also mentioned, commissioner, the obligations of the border authorities on the border with croatia, and i particularly agree that we are also helping croatia and, above all, bosnia and herzegovina in our humanitarian efforts to deal with the situation of migrants and thus also to ensure that there is no trafficking in human beings and that the border crossing is safe.
