the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. on wednesday, we have the chance to make a big improvement in the rules so that in the future we can use less energy and switch to renewable fuels. a more efficient use of energy is a huge opportunity for europe. we have the potential for a huge profit chain. with more ambition, we can get more innovation and a better economy, which in turn leads to more jobs and climate change. at the same time, we are getting cleaner air in our cities and we are improving people's health. so, colleagues, what are we waiting for? ensure that the s&d group's ambitious demand for a 40% energy efficiency target is supported. i would also like to say a few words about renewable energy. if we're going to get to the paris agreement, we're going to have to use the best climate tools we have. the bioeconomy is a huge resource. don't waste it. too detailed regulations in this area destroy the forest's ability to convert to better climate benefits and thus to a sustainable society. colleagues, do not waste it on wednesday. then we take responsibility for the climate.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is easy to miss me, i am only 190cm tall – a swedish viking. herr talman! först av allt vill jag tacka kollegorna för ett bra samarbete. jag vill också tacka kommissionen för att ha varit behjälplig under de svåra och långa förhandlingarna. jag tycker också att kommissionären hade ett bra förslag om att försöka hitta ett mer enhetligt sätt att hantera energifrågorna i europaparlamentet. vi kunde se efter det fatala misslyckandet som man hade i miljöutskottet – som vi i industriutskottet har fått städa upp efter – att vi har svagheter i vårt sätt att arbeta parlamentariskt. och det är också det som vi kommer att rösta om en hel del. det som har passerat industriutskottet har haft en bred och klar majoritet och vi har haft en god samförståndsanda i det arbetet, medan det har varit svårare i miljöutskottet, med mer av plakatpolitik, skulle jag vilja påstå. mycket av det ser jag här i kammaren just nu, där länder som har 70, 80, 90, 95 procent fossil energi i sitt system ska säga till länder som har kring 50, 60, 70 procent förnyelsebar energi att ni gör fel, ni missbrukar systemet. länder som för hundratals eller tusentals år sedan högg ner och skövlade sina skogar och inte har fått dem tillbaka ska säga till länder som har vårdat sina skogar med ansvar att ni får inte bete er på det sättet. länder som har en bred biologisk mångfald blir uppläxade av länder som har betydligt mindre av det. detta måste vi komma bort ifrån och hålla oss till fakta för att se till att vi bekämpar det som är problemet: den fossila energin och inte den förnyelsebara, som är långsiktigt hållbar och skapar arbeten och möjligheter i hela europeiska unionen.
mr president, first of all, regarding forestry. let it remain a competence for the member states, because it is only there that you have the knowledge and the competence to judge what is sustainable. it is only there that you can reduce carbon dioxide emissions via full-scale reliance on bioenergy. second, energy governance is about making the european energy union a reality and reaching the targets. there are no differences among the main groups in this parliament about reducing carbon dioxide emissions, and we agree on that target. the difference lies in whether we are to trust more bureaucracy and regulations or more openness towards new innovations and technological breakthroughs. it is a difference between, i would say, rigidity or dynamics. i believe that we can reach the targets, and even go beyond them, by opening up. and, by the way, i would like to thank mr turmes, he is always a nice guy to talk with.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are now discussing the conditions for a european energy policy. this week we're going to make decisions that will affect energy policy for a long time to come, decisions that are crucial to the climate if we're going to have a future planet that our grandchildren can live on. renewables are growing all over the world, and we're going to accelerate the green transition by investing in solar and wind, while putting coal and nuclear power into the history books. the greens want to see the renewables share target raised to at least 35% and that these targets should be binding on the member states. it should not be possible for any country to shirk its common responsibility. we will also make high demands on energy efficiency, and we want the eu to steer energy policy with regional energy markets that favour renewables and with legislation that requires reduced emissions. we now have the opportunity to revolutionise the eu's energy policy and we greens will fight for it.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the eu is a contracting party to the pacific regional fisheries management organisation (sprfmo) and therefore the binding management and conservation measures adopted by this organisation need to be incorporated into eu legislation. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation. the south pacific regional fisheries management organisation covers a quarter of the world's international waters. it does not manage the tuna fishery. these species are covered instead by other international conventions. the main species covered are spiny mackerel and humboldt squid. the organisation came into force on 24 august 2012 and is one of the newest regional fisheries organisations in the world. there are currently 15 contracting parties and two cooperating non-contracting parties to the organisation: liberia and panama. belize was a contracting party for a few years but withdrew in may 2016. this is the first time that the eu will be transposing these rules into eu law. the commission's proposal incorporates the various conservation and management measures adopted so far, some 15 of them. it covers a range of issues, from iuu fishing to measures to reduce seabird mortality and exploratory fisheries. the main eu activity is the regional pelagic trawling of mackerel, which has been caught since 1979. after a period of inactivity, it resumed in 2005 with small catches of less than 10% of the total stock. vessels from four member states are involved in this fishery, although all are linked to a single company. this proposal does not specify the amount of fish that can be caught, but it may be of interest that the catch follows scientific advice. the scientific committee on fisheries, inter alia, concluded that the fishing mortality of spiny mackerel was below the fmsy level, while the biomass was below the level that can give msy, bmsy. the scientific committee therefore recommended that the catches for 2017 and 2018 be kept below 493 000 tonnes, with the eu share being 30 115 tonnes. the commission proposal aims, in general, at the full transposition of the conservation and management measures adopted by sprfmo. some of these provisions are already part of the cfp, including the vessel monitoring mechanism (vms) and certain control provisions. there is therefore no need to repeat them in the proposal. the commission's proposal for the measures adopted by sprfmo lacks an important element: cmm 08-2013 introduces a total ban on the use of both large pelagic driftnets and all deep-sea nets or so-called deep-sea nets. the commission has probably not incorporated this measure because there are no union vessels using this type of gear today. the prohibition of deep-sea nets or gillnets is not reflected in other parts of the cfp. it is an international obligation and therefore the prohibition should be included in this regulation together with the corresponding definitions of gear. finally, sprfmo has adopted many necessary fishing restrictions for both trawls and longlines to prevent the capture of seabirds. this is commendable as the eu seabird action plan aims to draw attention to the high mortality of seabirds in fisheries around the world. the commission for the conservation of antarctic marine living resources reports that it has reduced reef-related seabird mortality by over 90 percent through relatively simple and effective technical adaptations of gear and fishing methods. equally effective measures to prevent seabird mortality must be taken within the sprfmo area of responsibility, as well as in other marine areas. the eu, which is working on best practice, must of course make the same demands in this regulation. i thank you for your time and look forward to any comments on this regulation.
the rapporteur. president. - the debate is closed. i don't have much more to say. this is a fairly straightforward and straightforward transposition of eu law. i would like to thank everyone who has taken part in the debate and of course the shadow rapporteur, with whom we have had a very good cooperation on this regulation. i would of course like to defend what i was doing with these relatively simple and effective technical adaptations of gear and fishing methods to reduce bycatch of seabirds, something we really should be doing in the eu. we're constantly learning and improving our methods, and this is something that we can do in a very simple way. of course, best practice must also be a guide in all types of work. then, of course, i also think that the commission should incorporate the ban on deep-sea nets or gillnets. although not relevant at the moment, something that should apply is an international obligation and should therefore be included in this regulation. i can also agree with my colleagues that this is taking a very long time, and we may need to think about speeding up the process. but i'm actually gonna stop there and we'll move on to the agenda.
madam president, i would like to thank you. thank you, rapporteur faria, for a very good cooperation and a very good report. the challenges we face with our oceans and the task of regulating activities on them are enormous. climate change is affecting marine ecosystems and fisheries are exerting significant pressure on marine ecosystems. the main responsibility lies with transnational fishing companies, but i am very concerned about a new activity in the oceans that is emerging, and that is deep sea drilling. the future impact on marine ecosystems, fish stocks and the health of the oceans is still unknown. we demand more transparency in the process by which the international seabed authority decides on international waters to states for drilling and very soon for commercial exploitation. international waters are owned by no one but must be managed by others for the benefit of future generations. i call for a transparent process with proper environmental investigations, greater transparency for civil society and public accountability for those who represent us in the international seabed authority.
the rapporteur, president. - the debate is closed. i am very proud to stand here today to present the first report in the european parliament on climate justice. a big thank you to all the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent cooperation. in this report, the european parliament recognises the fact that the impacts of climate change are unevenly distributed and not gender neutral. they disproportionately affect women, children and indigenous peoples much more. the un estimates that 70 percent of the 1.3 billion people living in poverty worldwide are women, often living in the countries most vulnerable to floods, rising sea levels, droughts and storms. women and children are also 14 times more likely than men to die in natural disasters. climate justice aims to protect the most vulnerable and ensures a fair sharing of the burdens and benefits of climate change and its effects. women are as important actors as men and can play a crucial role in developing our climate policy. therefore, women must be equally represented in the decision-making process and implementation of climate policy. the report also makes an important reference to the fact that climate change is a driver of migration. the developments we are seeing in parts of africa and the middle east are likely to contribute to political instability, economic stress and an escalation of refugee flows and migration. by 2050, the un estimates that the world could have up to 200 million people who have been driven from their homes because of climate change. this is a prospect which we cannot continue to ignore. we need to evolve the un system of migration and the existing definitions and tools, so that they include this category of refugees. the first gender equality plan under the paris agreement was adopted at the latest bonn climate summit. all member states should now choose a focal point for gender equality and climate action - a major step forward for an issue that has been so under-prioritized and under-worked. the un system is working to include climate refugees in the global migration strategy, and in that work we call on the eu to be proactive. the eu's refugee policy is a failure and a fatal failure in terms of legal certainty and accountability. with the prediction of an even more unjust world, a lack of resources and rising global temperatures driving people to flee, politicians across the political spectrum understand that something must be done. people who lost everything in floods and droughts today have no rights and are increasingly becoming climate refugees. climate refugees are about rising temperatures and rising water levels, but when we talk about climate justice, we often talk about people in other parts of the world, in the countries that are most affected by these consequences. but even in my country, sweden, in the north, the effects of climate change are being felt dramatically. the reindeer-herding sami of norrland live on the front line of climate change. 300 reindeer went through the ice to be herded into new pastures last year. it's not supposed to happen, but the winters are getting warmer and the old trails where the sami have herded their animals for generations and where the icemen served as a way of travel no longer hold. this is creating enormous problems for people and animals in the north. entire ecosystems are changing rapidly before our eyes, and that's why it's so important to raise the conversation about fairness. the most vulnerable are those who are discriminated against and marginalized in our societies, not to mention the way animals are affected. in two years, an ecosystem the size of italy has disappeared to the bottom of the sea. these are unique coral reefs in the great barrier reef off the coast of australia. i don't think there's a clearer example of the looming climate crisis. the answer to all of these challenges is to stop and adapt to climate change and protect the most vulnerable through an inclusive and feminist climate agenda. with this report, we will have adopted a common definition of what climate justice actually is and a set of tools that can channel resources to those who need it most.
madam president, the border dispute between croatia and slovenia is relevant not only for the two countries involved, considering the recent growing tensions between them. it is also a concern for the entire western balkan region, especially now when we are expecting the commission strategy for enlargement in the western balkans to be released in february. why? because we cannot promote the idea of including countries from the region that are still unstable, so the border dispute will hit hardest those countries that are trying to do their best to move towards the union. there has been a ruling in the arbitration court, so what are we debating here? why are we not demanding that these countries implement the judgment? and how can we tell the candidate countries that they have to improve respect for the rule of law before they can become part of the eu when other member states are not respecting it? these double standards are damaging our credibility.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, six months ago i stood before this parliament and promised that the first estonian presidency would work towards a europe where every voice is heard and where there is a balance between different traditions and interests. in the words of the irish poet seamus heaney, i wished that hope and history would rhyme again for europe. i did not simply a read out the motto of our presidency, ‘unity through balance’. i was confident that everyone working for the presidency would do their best to find consensus in working parties, at the council meetings or at trilogues with you. i was truly moved to see just how devoted the member states, the commission and parliament were to the same code. there were hundreds of sometimes difficult debates, but all parties were also always determined to reach an agreement. there was a desire to find solutions that would support and develop the freedoms that european citizens enjoy today. i would like to express my gratitude to you all for showing this solidarity, because strength is in unity. it is often noted that eu member states are very different in size, culture and climate. some of us have a few hours of daylight in winter and others have more sun than snow. still, the region we share for a better future is the same. although the european union is growing stronger and more united, let us not forget that after the brexit referendum and before key elections in europe, the year was full of confusion and pessimism. the political course set in bratislava, malta, rome and also in tallinn during the digital summit last september has allowed us to overcome this rough patch. the european union has turned a new page. i sincerely wish to thank all the eu member states and citizens for that. there is much to be satisfied with. we have finally reached a point where all of europe is feeling the benefits of economic recovery. now it is my wish that every european has the freedom to live their lives to the fullest in a safe, strong and competitive europe. this begins with an open and innovation—led economy that supports competitiveness, jobs and businesses. european enterprises will continue to be stimulated by the extension of the mandate of the european fund for strategic investments or, more simply, by the juncker fund, as it has become known. from 2019, paying value-added tax on sales of goods across borders will become easier for entrepreneurs. we also decided that international tax rules had to be updated in a way that would ensure fair taxation and digital economy enterprises. i am proud that, in the past six months, free trade negotiations with japan have been concluded, new negotiations have been launched with chile, and we are very close to starting talks with new zealand and australia. the positive effect of trade on europe’s growth and jobs cannot be overestimated. since the signing of the treaty of rome, the free movement of goods, services, capital and people has been the cornerstone of the european union. but if we want to ensure that every european is free to enjoy what europe has to offer in the digital age, europe must keep up with technological progress and make it work in our favour. with good reason, the estonian presidency has been called a digital presidency. promoting the digital dimension in all eu policy areas was our main priority. in addition to telecommunications, infrastructure, markets and cyber security, the idea that our future will be digital also underpinned legal cooperation, energy, internal security, defence, agriculture, space and many other areas. i hope that this approach will also appear in the european union’s next budget and in other activities over the next few years. digital europe is now a goal for all of europe. we reached a common understanding on this issue with european union leaders during the tallinn digital summit. i would like to thank president tajani and president juncker for their participation and valuable contribution at the summit. europe has to seize the momentum and make use of new technology to regain our place in the world as a leading digital society. i am also particularly pleased that the eu is already developing new rules to allow non-personal data to move easily across borders and thus boost the eu data economy. at the very end of the estonian presidency we agreed on a mandate to launch negotiations with the european parliament on this important proposal. i would like to urge you to make this a priority issue and complete the work on all digital single market files this year. i would very much like to highlight one of our joint forward-looking projects, namely the first ever electronic signing of a european union legal act. i would like to thank president tajani and secretary—general klaus welle for their commitment. i am confident that electronic signing of documents will soon become common in the european union. during the estonian presidency, landmark decisions were made in defence cooperation, climate policy and the social dimension. they all have significant structural and long-term effects. twenty—five member states have decided to join the permanent structured cooperation in the field of defence. they are committed to increasing their defence expenditure and carrying out several joint projects such as simplifying and speeding up military transport in europe. the european union has demonstrated its determination to implement the paris agreement. climate change is slow but it will influence the freedoms and quality of life of future generations. today, after the one planet summit organised on the initiative of president macron and after depositing our doha amendment ratification instruments at the end of the year, we have every reason to be proud of our global leadership. i would also like to personally thank the rapporteurs for all their work: ms julie girling, who worked on the emission trading system, mr gerben-jan gerbrandy, who was the rapporteur for the effort sharing regulation, and mr norbert lins, who worked on the land use, land use change and forestry regulation. together we demonstrated that the european union will continue to play a leading role. we care about our grandchildren and about the only planet we all share. the discussions about a social europe during the social summit in gothenburg, the signing of the european pillar of social rights and the agreement of new rules for posted workers expressed the shared values and unity of the european union. we will continue to strengthen our relations with our neighbours. they are essential for maintaining the peace and freedom that we know today. as mr tunne kelam stressed in july, we set the eastern partnership as a horizontal priority to increase our cooperation across sectors. i am proud that the eastern partnership and the eu—african union summits were successful, as evidenced by their joint declarations, which, among other things, set practical common goals. i want to thank president tusk and president juncker for their hard work and commitment before, during and after the summits. specific projects in the field of economy, connectivity and education, as well as digital affairs, will improve the lives of millions of people and help to stabilise our neighbourhood. i have hopes that the bulgarian presidency will continue this work, especially in the western balkans region, where we can hopefully give a new impetus to our enlargement policy. at the beginning of the estonian presidency we set the goal of reducing immigration pressure on the external borders of the european union, improving border management and handling the aftermath of the migration crisis. thus we have moved from crisis management to migration management. we are no longer putting out fires, but are instead focusing on long-term solutions. good examples of this are the eu emergency trust fund for africa and the foreign investment plan, which aims to reduce the causes of migration. during our presidency we concentrated on closing the central mediterranean route and developed a practical implementation plan for this purpose. in this respect i would particularly like to praise the work of the italian government. we continue to work on the reform of the common european asylum system. it is a real challenge, but with a joint effort we have made progress and i am convinced that we will find a solution under the bulgarian presidency. in europe, we do not need to present our passport when crossing internal borders. to be able to enjoy a europe without internal borders and to reduce the threat of terrorists we are focused on cooperation in protecting our external borders. thanks to our common efforts, the european union entry-exit system and, with some additional work, the european travel information and authorisation system will become operational in 2020. the interoperability of information systems and the improved quality of data exchanges, in accordance with the european union data protection rules, are some of the efficient tools at our disposal for preventing and fighting various types of crime. i would also appreciate it if i could say some words in estonian. head sõbrad! peatselt saja aastaseks saava eesti vabariigi põhiseaduse preambul sätestab, et eesti riik on rajatud vabadusele, õiglusele ja õigusele. need on kolm üdini euroopalikku mõistet, just selliselt seatuna moodustavad nad meie ühiste väärtuste alusmüüri. väikeriikide olemasolu euroopas on nende põhimõtete parim kinnitus. eesistumine oli meie kord, meie võimalus täita oma kohust euroopa ees täie pühendumusega ja heas koostöös. seetõttu ma tänan kõikide institutsioonide juhte, eriti teid, antonio, jean-claude, ja ülemkogu eesistujat donald tuski selle pühendumise eest. samuti kõiki teid siin saalis oluliste arutelude ja tulemuste eest. suur tänu, austatud euroopa parlamendi saadikud! südamest tunnustan ka kõiki töökaid ning meie ühise euroopa tulevikust siiralt hoolivaid eesti ametnikke ja poliitikuid, kes tallinnas, brüsselis ja kõikjal euroopas meie eesistumise edusse panustasid. samuti loomulikult eesti eriesindajat härra matti maasikat. ma usun, et mu hea kolleegi bojko borisovi juhtimisel ja bulgaaria eesistumise egiidi „ühtsus teeb meid tugevaks“ all jõuame lõpetada ka selle töö, mis jäi meil ühiselt pooleli. aitäh, jõudu euroopale!
president of the commission. – mr president, let me start by thanking and congratulating the estonian prime minister and his ministers, mainly the ones sitting next to the prime minister. all the estonian civil servants were excellent, with a very successful and very european presence. it was one of the best-prepared and most professionally-run presidencies i can remember. once again, my long-held belief that smaller countries really do make for the best presidencies has been confirmed. they are more natural bridge-builders, and more likely to look for consensus. estonia proved me right. you were able, mr prime minister, to reach agreement on a number of priority files, and to make progress in other areas where we needed it. most importantly, this set the tone for 2018, because 2018 must become a year of delivery for a better future. thanks to this house, and in large part thanks to the tireless work of prime minister ratas and others, we signed last month a new joint declaration on the eu’s legislative priorities for 2018-2019. this gives all of us the platform to show that europe can deliver for its citizens when and where it matters, to build a stronger, more united and more democratic union. this is the approach that the estonian presidency took throughout the last six months. herr präsident, herr premierminister! sie haben sich als estnische präsidentschaft als wahre zukunftspräsidentschaft bewährt, auch, indem sie ein thema auf die agenda gesetzt haben, das nicht nur unser aller aufmerksamkeit, sondern auch unser aller handeln verdient. je besser wir uns heute digital aufstellen, desto größer werden unsere erfolge morgen sein. für einen digitalen gipfel war die hauptstadt tallinn genau der richtige ort. dort waren wir uns einig, dass wir den digitalen binnenmarkt voranbringen müssen, da dieser ein enormes potenzial birgt. jedes jahr könnte er 415 milliarden euro zur europäischen wirtschaft beitragen. für die kommission war dies – der digitale binnenmarkt – seit beginn unseres mandates eine priorität. insgesamt hat die kommission 24 initiativen in diesem bereich vorgelegt, 11 davon wurden inzwischen in gesetzgebungseinigungen gegossen. um im globalen wettbewerb mithalten zu können – und die estnische präsidentschaft hat die richtige atmosphäre für diesen schritt geschaffen –, werden wir außerdem eine milliarde euro in weltklasse-supercomputer investieren und damit die europäische unabhängigkeit in diesem bereich sicherstellen. ihre präsidentschaft, herr premierminister, des digitalen hat nun endlich auch den noch zögerlichen mitgliedstaaten digitalen schwung verliehen. dank ihrer anstrengungen sind uns große fortschritte gelungen, unter anderem, um künftig einfacher über grenzen hinweg einkaufen und handeln zu können. alle akteure haben sich auf regeln geeinigt, die transparentere und bezahlbarere preise für die grenzüberschreitende paketzustellung ermöglichen und geoblocking beenden. gleichzeitig hat die estnische präsidentschaft die diskussion für mehr sicherheit im netz sowie für eine bessere infrastruktur vorangebracht. so sehr wir digitale innovationen, möglichkeiten und erfolge vor uns sehen, so sehr liegt es der kommission am herzen, dass wir auch auf die verantwortung achten, die damit einhergeht. der schutz unserer daten ist eine grundvoraussetzung für europas digitale selbstbehauptung. verantwortung heißt aber auch gerechtigkeit. es ist eine frage der gerechtigkeit, dass alle unternehmen – und das heißt auch digitale giganten – ihren steueranteil leisten, und zwar in dem land, in dem sie ihre gewinne erwirtschaften. bisher ist das nicht der fall. während die effektive steuerlast für traditionelle unternehmen 23 % beträgt, liegt sie für digitale unternehmen bei lediglich 10 %. das muss sich ändern und das wird sich ändern. mit der europäischen investitionsoffensive tun wir genau das, und zwar mit erfolg. so haben wir mehr als 357 projekte in allen 28 mitgliedstaaten genehmigt. schon jetzt werden wir so schätzungsweise 256 milliarden euro an investitionen in die zukunft mobilisieren. diesen erfolg wollen wir fortsetzen und deshalb bin ich froh darüber, dass dieses haus im dezember grünes licht dafür gegeben hat, den efsi nicht nur bis ende 2020 zu verlängern, sondern auch das angestrebte investitionsvolumen von 315 auf 500 milliarden zu erhöhen. monsieur le président, monsieur le premier ministre, mesdames, messieurs, nous avons également pu réaliser, pendant la présidence estonienne, des avancées remarquables dans le domaine de l’europe sociale. le sommet social de göteborg fut un moment, je ne dirais pas «historique», mais un moment d’unité et de détermination collective, non pas renouvelées, mais retrouvées. la responsabilité de la mise en œuvre du socle est naturellement partagée entre les états membres et l’union européenne. le socle ne doit pas rester un poème, mais doit être traduit en réalité, et je fais référence ici à la directive sur l’équilibre entre vie professionnelle et vie privée, à la directive sur les conditions de travail et à d’autres textes que nous venons de présenter, y compris – ce sera fait bientôt – le nouveau tableau de bord social qui accompagnera la mise en œuvre du socle des droits sociaux. je voudrais nous féliciter du fait que les points de vue entre le parlement et la commission, pour ce qui est de la révision de la directive «détachement», ont fait des progrès considérables; seuls quelques millimètres nous séparent d’une approche commune et je voudrais que le conseil se rallie rapidement à l’accord qui se dessine entre le parlement et la commission, ce qui nous permettra de poursuivre la mise en application du socle. la première initiative que nous allons prendre sous peu est la mise en place d’une autorité européenne du travail. voilà jüri, tu as fait un bon travail. la commission essayait de ne pas perdre le souffle, puisque vous êtes allés rapidement. c’est très bien, c’était très très bien. (applaudissements)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, we all have every reason to congratulate estonia, the estonian government and all estonian citizens for what they have contributed in the european union during the estonian presidency. not only for what they have achieved, but also for what they have proved that estonia is, and what the european union is. they have given proof of the fact that in the european union small nations can be just as big as big nations through efficiency and decisiveness. but let me also make a personal reflection. i once had the opportunity to mobilise popular support in sweden for the independence of the baltic states. i first visited tallinn in estonia quite a long time ago, when you had to pass a kgb border control and you had to use the rouble. and today, under this presidency, tallinn has been one of the capitals of europe. that is a fantastic thing, but for me this also demonstrates the absolute best of the european union: what we can achieve by remaining together and letting the ideas of freedom and democracy show their immense value. for this we shall all be grateful to you. but also for all the things you have achieved regarding the digital agenda, reforms and initiatives for cyber-security and streamlining and opening up in preparation for the digital economy. this goes beyond what can be expected of a single presidency. this is a long-term task and a long-term challenge for us all, but estonia has taken the lead because it are one of the most digital nations and one of the most modernising countries in this respect. estonia has also laid the groundwork for progress towards greater defence and military cooperation, by signing the decision on permanent structured cooperation on security and defence, for example. the presidency’s priorities also include an open innovative european economy, a safe and secure europe, a digital europe and an inclusive and sustainable europe. these are not only its priorities, they shall be our priorities for a long time in the future because we need to be successful. so once again, thank you very much. and may i say in my brilliant estonian: ‘tänan’.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is becoming increasingly clear what the ambition of the eu is - we hear this all the time from both mr juncker and mr tajani - namely, ever deeper cooperation until the national state has been abolished and the federal state has been established, where we have a common president, a common finance minister and a common defence minister, etc., until the governments of the member states can in practice be replaced by administrations that are subordinate to the eu. what you are doing to the people of europe is nothing but a fraud. what started as a peacekeeping and trade promotion project has now evolved into an increasingly power-hungry institution that does everything to silence criticism. if you don't agree with the cheering chorus in here, you're immediately branded as right-wing and protectionist. countries like poland are being punished by the eu for, among other things, how they appoint their judges. it is, moreover, exactly the same as the system of appointment which sweden has for its judges. so my question is: when will you start the sanctions against sweden? because you can't reasonably think that you're going to punish poland because they want the same system of recruitment as the one sweden uses? you are in a violent disarray with the european people, but you are not learning anything from the ever-decreasing turnout.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to request that these dossiers be referred back to the committee on fisheries under rule 59 for interinstitutional negotiations, in accordance with rules 59(a) and 69(f).
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu will of course continue to support the colombian peace process. what do you think the eu should focus on in particular in its support? in conversations with colombian activists, i have formulated the following three points: the special jurisdiction for peace, jep. the colombian constitutional court voted in november to approve a mechanism to investigate human rights violations committed during the conflict. the jep is a key element of the peace agreement and it is important that the eu supports a process that strengthens the rule of law. the eu should continuously monitor the work of the mechanism. the jep is not welcomed by all political forces in colombia and we must therefore make clear from the eu side that we are in favour of investigating crimes committed by all parties to the conflict. the truth commission. the peace treaty requires a truth commission to produce a report on what happened during this conflict. the truth commission is intended to create an emotional repair and is a fundamental step in moving forward as a society. the members of the truth commission have already been appointed, but we must be vigilant that there are interests that want to conceal the truth about the abuses that have been committed, not least those committed by the army. the eu will of course support the truth commission and continuously monitor its work. the eu must also show its clear support for women, indigenous peoples and lgbtq organisations in the follow-up to both the jep and the truth commission. the abuses against these groups must be taken very seriously. it is therefore also of fundamental importance that they be able to participate actively in the follow-up of the peace agreement and to take part in the peace negotiations between all the parties involved.
madam president, after 10 days of silence since the eruption of protests in iran, the high representative came out with a statement calling on all concerned to refrain from violence. that statement implies that the activists and the regime are morally equal and accountable. this should be compared with the united nations human rights expert who clearly condemned the iranian regime for instructing the revolutionary guard to hit hard against the protesters. the brave men and women who have taken to the streets in more than 100 iranian cities have done so to demand freedom, and to put an end to the endemic corruption of the elite. they are also opposing the brutal iranian warfare in arab countries and, indeed, the iranian dictatorship as such. it is important to understand that the rise in living standards that the iranian people were promised as a result of the international nuclear deal has not been realised. instead, the ayatollahs and the guards are filling their own pockets and spending huge amounts on supporting terrorist organisations such as hezbollah and hamas. only this year, the iranian regime spends a staggering eur 45 billion on the military and security apparatus, including the export of terrorism. silence about iranian misrule not only reflects very badly on the european union, it is also a bad bet. while a free iran could be a strong force for positive change and for stability, the current regime relies on a system of domination. european silence, european efforts to treat the mullahs as if they were snowflakes, will not change the nature of the morally corrupt iranian machine. it is time to realise this. it is time to speak up against the grave human rights violations and, once and for all, stop pandering to the ayatollahs.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the new year began with widespread protests across iran. a wave that also reached beyond the big cities into the countryside. the regime's response was brutal. it led to deadly violence and mass arrests, including violence in detention that has led to the death of people. the eu should not only condemn the deadly violence and the restrictions on freedom of expression, but our task must be to support the iranian people in their demands for democratization, economic improvement and social freedom. we must demand the release of the political prisoners who have been under house arrest or imprisonment for many years. it is still important that we stand up against the death penalty, dubious trials and the individual cases that we have expressed concern about. finally, i would like to ask how the commission intends to act to support the people of iran. we must now develop a new policy for iran, alongside the nuclear agreement, based on the people's demands for democratization and economic and social reforms.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. it takes time to build a functioning democracy and that is something that we who have had a democracy for a very long time often forget. we take it for granted, and that's very dangerous because then we stop fighting to maintain it when it's actually threatened. we have some young democracies among the eu member states too, and there we can see that what we mean by the democratic rules of the game are sometimes being compromised. the same or similar problems are seen in many lands. the basis of a functioning democracy is, of course, that elections can be held in an orderly fashion, that the organization of elections is so secure that electoral fraud cannot occur, that parties can participate on equal terms, and that winners and losers can handle any change of power peacefully. today, when we talk about kenya, we know that those conditions were not fully met in the last elections and the result, as we have heard, has been inter-communal violence and a large number of deaths. the last election is no exception. before today's debate, i contacted my green colleagues in kenya to get their picture of what it is that kenya needs today to move forward on its path towards a better democracy. first on their list are far-reaching reforms of the electoral system to ensure credible elections, at every election and during the conduct of elections. respect for the institutions and the rule of law as the cornerstone of democracy needs to be strengthened. there is therefore also a need for constitutional reforms that strengthen institutions and increase respect for laws and rules. we need an independent investigation into the violence that took place after the last election and the perpetrators must be brought to justice. citizens also need democracy education, where political mobilisation is organised around specific issues and ideologies rather than around opposing ethnic alliances and personal interests over the common ones. but more is needed than education. grassroots democracy and the active participation of citizens need to be strengthened, not only during the elections themselves but in policy and decision-making both within and outside government. the list also includes creating equal conditions for women, minorities and the disabled to participate in politics, for example, to be elected. last but not least, my green friends are drawing attention to the importance of protecting whistle-blowers.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this possibility to have this very timely debate. the subject we are discussing today is a true example of value—based trade. i welcome this report for many reasons. first of all, because it is timely. one year after the proposal from the commission the adoption of this report by an overwhelming majority sends a very strong political signal. no amendments – that is a signal that the rapporteur has managed to gather almost a whole plenary behind his report. it is illustrating that the process is moving forward thanks to members’ determination. i understand that the council is also actively proceeding with its examination, and i hope that the mandate for trilogues will be ready by the end of the bulgarian presidency. i would also like to welcome this interim report because it shows the strong convergence of views between the european parliament and the commission. in particular, the introduction of a human security dimension that explicitly incorporate human rights into export controls reflects our commitment to a true value-based trade policy. the human security dimension subjects the trade in cyber—surveillance technologies to effective control. cyber—threats increasingly threaten countries, businesses and citizens in the eu and across the world, and we must take action – and when and where necessary autonomous eu action – to ensure that this trade does not fuel conflict and human right violations. we have heard your message on encryption and we share the concerns that trade in advanced it products that contain encryption should not be unduly restricted at a time when we are racing towards the internet of things. the proposed general export authorisation is an important step in that direction, but i agree that we should identify efforts to find the right balance between security and trade in encryption products. a few issues that require further attention. firstly, the parameters of human security controls must be carefully calibrated so that they do not hinder the development of the eu cybersecurity industry, nor the trade in cyber—surveillance technologies that are essential to protect us against criminals and terrorists. here the report by the committee on international trade (inta) proposes interesting avenues for ensuring that this control will not stand in the way of it—security research. however, we have to be aware of the unintended consequences of suggestions to identify countries that would be systematically subject to control. indeed, a defining feature of export control is it is based on case-by-case assessments, and that is why we believe that controls must be targeted and take into account the precise circumstances of a particular export. the inta report cautions against so—called extra—territorial controls and in this respect we must not forget that the overarching objective of the proposal is to adjust eu policy to rapidly changing technology, economic and security conditions. technology is global, economy and trade are global, security is global, and proliferators do not care about borders or our regulations, so we must take into account that reality while maintaining control firmly within eu jurisdiction where we can act to strengthen them. i would also like to point out that there are obvious links between different facets of the threat environment. it is no coincidence that the wannacry cyber—attacks of 2007 were attributed to north korea – the same malicious actor that puts international peace and stability and security at risk by developing nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles in contradiction of united nations security resolutions, and commits terrorist attacks in foreign countries using chemical nerve agents. this illustrates the convergence of security threats from the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction to cyber—proliferation and terrorism. so we must respond to the risk of sensitive items falling into the hands of non-state actors, and in particular terrorists, and ensure that controls contribute to preventing terrorism. last but not least, it is our joint responsibility to wield trade tools to effectively protect security and human rights, and the starting point for this is to make the correct analysis of the threat landscape. the broadening of the threat landscape today does not only concern cybersecurity. autonomous weapon systems, artificial intelligence and additive manufacturing will shape our world in years to come not only in the civilian area, but also in the military sphere. that is why we consider that eu control should not be limited in principle to cyber—surveillance technology, but should be ready to address other emerging technologies of concern. failure to do that would make our controls obsolete by the time the proposal enters into force. so that is why we need to have a proposal that is capable of continuously adjusting to a constantly changing security, technological and economic environment, and we need – as you so rightly say in your report – to make the system future proof. again, thanks to the rapporteur, mr buchner, and to the shadow rapporteurs for the very constructive report. we are looking forward to working with you to make sure that we have a joint decision not very far away from now.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. tomorrow we shall therefore be voting on the control of exports, transfer, brokering and transit, and on technical assistance for dual-use items. just the name is very complicated and these rules are very complicated. my aim in my work as leader of my group in the party and - i dare say - my most important contribution in this work has been to make them a little less complicated than many of my colleagues seemed to want. it's important, because these rules are important, and if the rules are to work, they can't be complicated to the point of being unusable. because it is with these rules that we ensure that we do not export things that could contribute to weapons of mass destruction and to chemical weapons - something that the attacks in syria have shown us with all the desirable clarity is a reality also in our neighbourhood. now, with the update that we're doing, we can also help to ensure that these tools, this legislation, prevents dictatorships from using european products to spy on their own citizens. new technology provides amazing opportunities for people living in dictatorships and suffering under oppression to break free, but it also provides incredible opportunities for dictatorships and oppressors to spy on, monitor and beat down democracy fighters. this is also important for our economy. we talk about it too seldom, and treat this matter rather as a stepmother. the products exported, which are also regulated by this legislation, in europe - our exports of them - represent over sek 4 000 billion each year. this is the case for millions of jobs in europe in high-tech companies selling these products, and it is the case for skilled jobs, mainly in the it sector. the new thing is that the it sector will also be affected. international trade in it products is indeed beneficial. we have seen this, not least because we have abolished all tariffs on it products for 20 years and have seen how it has revolutionized the world. in a few years, over 7 billion people, over 50 billion devices, will be connected to the internet. and we in europe are, and must remain, the world leader in the dissemination of this technology. it's important for jobs and growth here, but it's more important for the freedom it can create and the prosperity it can create in the rest of the world. therefore, this legislation must be useful and not anywhere near as bureaucratic as its name has come to be.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, my green colleague klaus buchner, for a very good report and there are several others who have said the same. it is gratifying that we greens are leading the way in reducing the wrong equipment falling into the hands of the wrong people and regimes. it is, as with arms exports, that we must adapt to a changed reality. the arab spring and all that has happened since has shown this with all its clarity. it's been seven years since the arab spring began in tunisia, and while it's gone relatively well in some cases, it doesn't look the same in all the countries where the revolt spread. the problem is that several member states were involuntarily and indirectly involved in the violent suppression of the uprisings. when the activists were hunted down by the dictators' security services, it was with surveillance equipment from europe, and that in addition to the fact that several countries also kept the dictatorships under arms both politically and with the sale of weapons. sweden was no exception. a year before the protests began, we authorized the export of sensitive mobile equipment from ericsson to iran and syria. and that same year, the swedish trade minister was in libya to sell surveillance equipment to gaddafi. for the arab spring fighters, these tightenings come too late, but for future freedom fighters, they could mean the difference between life and death. it is extremely positive that we can get such a large majority in this parliament to really make sure that the products we make, which are good, get to the right people but certainly not to the wrong people.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the question of fair and environmentally friendly trade is a matter of destiny. but the eu trade agreements transfer power from democratically elected governments to big business. it is good that the commission is now talking more about human rights and sustainability in trade policy, but so far it has mostly been dialogue meetings and no binding rules. the parts of the agreements that are supposed to protect large companies, on the other hand, are binding, such as the possibility for companies to sue countries that introduce environmental and consumer protection rules. now you want to further cement that system through a multilateral investment court. is it really good for the environment? what the world needs now is not more power for big business, but rules to protect the environment and workers that really work. it is time to introduce binding rules in trade agreements for the environment and for the protection of workers and to support, with vigor, the work in the un for an agreement which will make large companies respect human rights.
mr president, it is quite interesting that the communists and the extremist nationalists in this chamber can’t see russian disinformation. of course you can’t, but we can see you. we see that you are giving the same message of extremism, conflicts and dislike for democracy as russian disinformation tries to impose on our societies. the difference between russian disinformation and a lot of the other disinformation we see is that russian disinformation is part of a broader warfare against europe and european democracies. it cannot be seen as isolated from all the other things that russia does. it must be defeated and disclosed, and we must tell them that we will win and they will lose. (applause)
madam president, a number of eu member states have been subjected to severe disinformation attacks from russia. russian deception is aimed at weakening, destabilising and dividing the european union. in essence, we are talking about an attack on democracy. when it comes to confronting this, the high representative has stated that the external action service has taken proper action. however, many experts beg to disagree. the eu instantly needs to raise public awareness, to streamline the exchange of intelligence and to allocate necessary resources to institutions like europol and stratcom. in order to protect and preserve fundamental values we need an effective strategy. we need political courage to counter the forces for whom misrepresentations and lies are the principal political instrument.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the aim of this initiative is to reach the young people who are furthest from the labour market: those who are neither in employment nor in education. we are now beginning to see positive results from this initiative. that is also why last year it received a budget increase. but that increase is only until 2020, and that is also why we are having this debate today. so we have to make choices about the path we're going to take. i firmly believe that we must first of all ensure that the member states invest more than they do today in getting young people into work. they have to make the priorities. according to both the ilo and eurofound, between €45 billion and €50 billion per year is needed to achieve the programme's objective. this compares to the eu budget of only 8.8 billion, if i remember correctly, for the programme between 2014 and 2020. the member states must therefore also put the money on the table. we know very well that there are great differences between the member states. we know that the support from the employment initiative has been absolutely necessary for them to develop their own youth guarantees. we will of course continue to be there, but it must be so that the member states also make the priorities necessary to keep some young people in their member states and to have young people who can cope with difficult tasks and who are prepared to take on the challenge. the economic crisis has also meant lost time for many young people, so it is important that the youth guarantee be of high quality, that it not be another waste of time. to achieve this, young people themselves must be involved in the design and evaluation of the youth guarantee. it is no longer possible to avoid it, because that is what some member states are doing, so everyone on board! that's what it takes.
in writing. the youth guarantee is another of the many eu programmes which this parliament believes should be extended despite its failures. moreover, as is always the case in this union, sweden is paying more than we are getting back. i believe that, to the extent that labour market policies are needed or deemed to be effective, they should be decided on in national parliaments.
madam president, i would like to thank you. a child-friendly europe must be what we all want. it is a good europe for all of us. i don't want children to have to experience any more conflict than the one about how many of these you can have or how many fairy tales you can have for the evening. unfortunately, that is not the case in our europe. we have, and this is gratifying, a high incidence of crossborder family formation, but it also means that as many as 16 million people have disputes over borders and 1 800 child abductions take place in the union. these are kids who are in trouble. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of education and training. the rules have often been marred by confusion, legal uncertainty and unnecessary delays. it has been very important for me and for my political group to put children first, and then children must be allowed to speak. i am very glad that we are going to secure that by voting tomorrow. i have also been pushing, and our group has been pushing, for the regulation to cover registered partnerships too. i am disappointed that the conservative groups did not agree to this. there are children who are in trouble because you didn't want to go further and help those children too. but in conclusion i would say that the fundamental point of the regulation must be to put the will of the child at the centre.
rapporteur. – madam president, today we are discussing the ratification of the marrakesh treaty, which aims to facilitate access to books for blind people and visually impaired and otherwise print-disabled persons. this will improve the lives of a very great number of people. today when you make a copy of a book, in an eu country, into a format that blind people can read, you are mostly not allowed to bring it across a national border because that’s the way copyright is constructed. but the marrakesh treaty, which is a un treaty, seeks to liberate those books so that they can be shared freely all over the world, or at least in all the countries that have ratified the marrakesh treaty. this will make life better for many of the 285 million beneficiaries of this treaty, who will get access to a lot more books that they can read, and access to better educational opportunities. while this will be good for blind people inside the eu, the greatest benefit will be for blind people in those countries – especially countries where they speak english or french or spanish or portuguese – where access to books today is very poor by comparison with rich countries such as those in the union. those readers will have access to books that are already available inside the eu. so this is a great step forward and it is going to happen quite soon, hopefully in september once we ratify the treaty. it has made possible partly by the work of the european parliament, which has been fighting for this treaty for very many years. of course, not only the european parliament has been fighting for it: we have been working together with blind people’s organisations and with libraries, as well as a great number of concerned citizens all over the world, to make this possible. it has not always been easy. some member states were, let’s say, more protective of their publishing interests than they were interested in standing up for the rights of blind people, and they were very cautious, very reluctant, but we are argued them down. this is a huge step forward. what is the next step once we ratify this treaty? well, in many member states in the eu today there are discussions about how to implement the treaty, and some governments are considering compensation schemes – a possibility that is, in fact, allowed – to compensate publishers for the income that they will lose when blind people do not buy their books because they can get them freely through libraries with the help of the marrakesh treaty. i do not really understand why compensation schemes are necessary but some member states insisted on them. i would just like to remind those governments that the implementation provisions include rules to make sure that compensation schemes which have to be paid for by libraries and blind people’s organisations shall not be an excessive burden on them. i think i speak for many people in this chamber when i say to the governments who are considering how to implement the treaty that we will be watching them. (applause)
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to thank my colleague max andersson from the green group, who has been leading the negotiations, and the rest of the colleagues involved, because this is a historic debate and a historic vote that is going to take place. this man should have slept, but he wants to be part of the celebration, i think. a total of 120,000 swedes are considered visually impaired and 10,000 are blind. in the eu as a whole, the figure is 30 million people, and globally, it is 285 million. they have the right to access and deserve increased access to speech books, braille books or visual interpreters in different languages. it is a prerequisite for democratic participation and the possibility of being culturally involved and of being able to take part in the cultural debate and the cultural offer. i am very proud, and so is my socialist group, that we have finally concluded the negotiations for the incorporation of the marrakesh treaty into european law. for the first time in the history of the eu, copyright exceptions are now harmonised at eu level for those who need them most. it's not a day too soon. the eu's ratification of the marrakesh treaty has long been crucial to ensuring that blind, visually impaired and other people with reading or visual disabilities have access to literature and visual interpretation in different languages. because of some opposition from some eu countries, we have had concerns during the negotiations about how the proposal could be watered down and not provide adequate access to books for the visually impaired. but the agreement of 13 september is, on the whole, good, and we are very pleased about that. i would therefore urge all member states to ensure that national laws on this matter are transposed as soon as possible, so that books and e-books can be transferred to legible media for the visually impaired without the burden of copyright fees. the adoption of the marrakesh treaty is an important reform for global equality. i would also like to say briefly that in some countries as little as one percent have access to books. our approval of this will increase access in africa, south america and southeast asia. it's also extremely important.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, as few as only 5% of the books published in the eu are being translated for people with visual disabilities, and not even one single percent in the developing countries. in other words, the opportunities and the world as such presented to people with visual impairments are much narrower than for others. not only because they cannot access the same number of books as others but also because books are a key to education. i am a firm believer, as are most of my colleagues in this house, in equal opportunities for everybody. two years ago my committee, the committee on petitions, put forward a resolution on this topic urging the member states to ratify the marrakech treaty. tomorrow this house has an absolutely unique power to greatly improve equality by voting in favour of the marrakech treaty. this will not only be a big step towards increasing the variety of books translated into braille but also towards equal opportunities. sadly, the world is not at all fair. fair education for all is a faraway dream for too many. rich countries have lots of books and smaller numbers of visually impaired persons. poor countries, on the other hand, suffer from the opposite: they have too many blind people and visually impaired people and too few books. the aim of the marrakech treaty is to bridge this gap. on the other hand, protection of intellectual property is crucial. in its legal essence the marrakech treaty is a copyright exemption but it is a proportionate one, a justified one, because the essence of its aim is equal opportunities for all and in the end a much more inclusive and educated world.
rapporteur. – mr president, when i was appointed rapporteur for the greens for the ratification of the marrakech treaty nearly three and half years ago, i was told that this would be an easy file and that it would be over quickly. well, we were overly optimistic and i fear that we might have underestimated the degree of resistance that certain lobby interests would be able to push for and try to delay the ratification of the marrakech treaty. but we overcame this resistance, and this is because many people – the shadows and many other meps present and not present in parliament right now – did a lot of work in order to improve the access of blind people to books that they can read. we did it, and i also would like to thank the commission for its sterling work on this issue and of course i would like to thank the estonian presidency and the maltese presidency for all the good things that they also did in order to make this a reality. it has been very encouraging to hear this debate and all the speeches and i am quite confident that tomorrow we will vote to ratify the marrakech treaty so that blind people and visually impaired people and people with other reading disabilities will get a lot better access to books that they can read.
author. – mr president, commissioner, as we speak, tens of thousands of women and children are being sexually abused and exploited in europe. the epp wholeheartedly supports this initiative to join forces across political groups to put an end to this unfolding tragedy. tonight, we stand united to urge the member states to do more, faster and better, to stop trafficking. when visiting reception centres in sicily, i was told by doctors that there was not a single women or girl who had not been raped on her way to europe. their stories are devastating. you can read them on their bodies. the time has come for the anti-trafficking directive to be fully enforced by all member states. trafficking is a high-profit and low-cost business, at the expense of women and girls. we call on the member states to do more to combat impunity and protect victims, to increase police and judicial cooperation, including with europol, eurojust and third countries, to ensure that traffickers are brought to justice, to combat demand for prostitution and online abuse, criminalise sex buyers and track their money, confiscate assets of criminal organisations and build trust with the victims, making them feel safe. they must provide psychological support and access to reproductive health services, allocate the necessary resources and support the anti-trafficking coordinator. we must also make sure that member states implement the directive on victims’ rights. what is happening in libya is totally unacceptable in modern times. it is a new slavery. the eu and the member states must urgently act to deal with libya and the trafficking routes, taking into account the gender dimension. from the balkans to western europe, from the mediterranean to the north sea, there should be no hiding place for traffickers. mr president, i am the author of this text and i would like to finish, if you would you allow me please. we welcome the commission’s commitment but, once again, we ask for a new anti-trafficking strategy post-2016. together with the epp, and as co-chair of the intergroup on children’s rights, i will continue to be committed to zero tolerance against trafficking. the epp has been driving for the directive since 2011; we were here for the implementation report in 2016, and we are here tonight. we will not give up. the time has come for the member states to go from words to action.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner avramopoulos, i have to ask you to leave. you know that we have been asking for a strategy for a long time without the commission having delivered one. now you have presented a list of measures. it is, of course, welcome, but let us be honest: a list of measures is not a strategy. it is not as binding, not as forward-looking and not as systematic. i would like to make a few recommendations on the measures presented by the commission. the main form of trafficking in europe is women and girls who are bought by men in the prostitution market. the commission is therefore welcome to finally do something to criminalise those who expose and exploit victims of trafficking in human beings. i read from the commission: the commission will encourage member states to criminalise those who knowingly use the services of victims of trafficking in women or human beings. the problem, commissioner, is that if you have someone knowingly, if you have to prove that someone knowingly is exploiting, then you make it difficult for those who are to prosecute. the most successful examples come from countries that have gone further. sweden, france, norway, iceland and ireland have been the most successful in combating trafficking in women. ban the purchase of sexual services. it's 2018, it's time to put an end to the patriarchal notion that men can buy women and girls, that women can be bought and sold. it's simply outdated. in sweden there has been a #metoo for those who have been exploited in prostitution and trafficking of women, against the abuse of power and exploitation that takes place there. i must also say to the commission that i nevertheless encourage and welcome the support for women exploited in prostitution which you present in the list of measures and the increased support for children. but we must realise that if we do nothing about the demand, about those who buy and exploit women and girls in the prostitution industry, we are going to stand by and stamp. it's got to stop. there are effective measures. it's about having the courage to take them. it's time to say goodbye to the right of men to buy women into prostitution.
mr president, i would like to thank you. since 2016, the eu has been without a strategy on trafficking in human beings. this is despite commissioner avramopoulos' repeated promises and assurances that a strategy is under way. instead, on 5 december the commission chose to present a so-called communication on trafficking in human beings, a document that will hardly make as much of a difference as a strategy. i am very disappointed and angry that the commission has chosen to act in this way. i have been working on the issue of trafficking in human beings for over a decade in the european parliament and have constantly encountered resistance. it is amazing that so many people do not realize the seriousness of the crimes involved in human trafficking. trafficking in human beings is a cross-border activity and requires cross-border solutions and a cross-border strategy. if we lower the level of ambition on this issue, we send signals to the member states that the eu is prioritizing other things and that the perpetrators can continue to commit crimes and abuses. it is very important that the eu acts forcefully in terms of signals policy. the eu is facing an avalanche of human trafficking. the human suffering caused by trafficking in human beings requires that we give constant priority to the fight against the perpetrators. we must criminalise the use of the services of victims of trafficking in human beings in the eu. we have to fight the demand. the principle of following the money is to be used in cross-border police work. the protection of victims of trafficking in human beings must also be increased, both during and after the judicial process. i would also like to take this opportunity to stress the importance of the role of the trafficking in human beings coordinator. the presence of a person and a function with a very high level of expertise in the field of trafficking in human beings is crucial to our success in combating trafficking in human beings throughout the eu. how long are we going to allow human trafficking in europe? when will the commission present a strategy to combat trafficking in human beings in an active and concrete way?
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to start by congratulating mr danti for excellent work that has been done with the great care for detail and in a very good atmosphere. i believe that today we are taking a step towards achieving our vision of a functioning single market for services, of which professional services are of course a cornerstone. around 50 million people in europe are working in these services, so they are extremely important. too often, regulation in the member states still operates against this goal, while the evidence shows us that the eu countries that have fewer obstacles to cross-border competition are actually performing much better than the member states where the restrictions are still in place. we believe that the regulation, at european and national level, of professional services should be proportionate, justified and non-discriminatory. member states should identify and remove the unjustified regulatory barriers in the interests of the citizens to enable them to benefit from the new professional opportunities. if i made an effort to become a lawyer, a doctor, an architect, whatever, then it’s reasonable to expect to be able to exercise that profession, even outside the walls of my city. we believe that this professionality should not be optional, but impossible to avoid, and that is why that we need transparency and legal clarity. this is the reason i tabled amendment on behalf of my group about it. we have to provide a clear legal reference for member states, in line with the pivotal principles of non-discrimination and proportionality. but even with this remark, i believe that we are today a bit closer to our vision of a functioning single market. i am very happy about this.
author. – madam president, the recent arrests and killings of peaceful demonstrators and human rights defenders in the democratic republic of congo are of great concern. in a country where human rights, democracy and the rule of law are extremely under threat, our support for strengthening civil society is crucial. in the democratic republic of congo, tens of thousands of children are working in mines for multinationals, and militias are using them as soldiers. the high incidence of rape and other forms of sexual violence against women is shocking. we ask the authorities of the democratic republic of congo to release immediately and unconditionally all detained human rights defenders and to hold free and fair elections in the coming year. human rights activists must be able to carry out their work for democracy, equality, social justice and the rule of law without fear. we stand with the congolese people in their fight for democracy and peace.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. we've come to the end of the road and we're really just going to club through a decision that in some parts was very complicated but in other parts was much easier. i think we have done as much as we could in the various institutions, but also here in the various committees of the european parliament. i think that for the next round, which we will soon be starting to charge for, we will have to take with us both the mid-term review and the new regulatory framework in place in 10 years' time. so i think we have to think in the european parliament about how much we are going to continue to drain this system, which we have done in several ways. what the money and the value that this market actually creates is going to be used for, i think, is a fundamental question. the second is how many more funds we can see to create to do things that perhaps the ets system is not really intended for. i think we have to ask ourselves a question that's going to be hard, difficult and painful in here: how long are we going to continue to grant derogations to certain member states, and how long are certain member states to be considered new? after how many decades are all member states equal and treated equally under our laws?
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. everything has its time and i'm one of those who have fought and been really tough in the negotiations to get this to become a stronger climate legislation, but today i was going to be happy. i think it is important for future fights in climate legislation that we also celebrate when we have tightened up legislation and put in place a better one, in line with the paris agreement. this has been a long and tough negotiation, and it is clear that the views on climate are divided, both in the european parliament and in the eu member states. on the one hand, there are the progressives who see the opportunity and want to do more to solve the climate threat. on the other hand, we have the conservatives who want to keep their heads in the sand and who are happy to cling to old fossil fuels and keep the emissions trail. we social democrats and the s&d group have been pushing the negotiations. by scrapping up to 2 billion emission allowances, we end the current inflation in the system and we make it more expensive to release; that's good. it has also been important for us to make the transition to a climate-smart society in a more equitable and socially sustainable way. everyone should be involved, and particularly in regions where the transition is difficult because of the major challenges of leaving fossil fuels behind, it is important to support workers so that they can be involved in the transition. i am also glad that the rules clearly signal that all sectors must contribute. no one should be taking advantage of someone else's improvements. climate work is a matter of concern to all of us. and of course i would have liked to see an even tighter regulatory framework, but we have tightened up the system, we are making sure that the eu takes responsibility in this legislation, and that gives us the strength to fight even more in future legislation.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. the eu has a vision of being a world leader in climate change, and in may the commission will present most of the policies for the next seven years and will show how the budget and the eu's future research and innovation policy will look. that's when it will be decided whether we will lead or whether we will hand over the relay to others. the cornerstone of the eu's next research and innovation framework programme must be the climate, because if we fail to innovate here, well, then it doesn't matter what comes after that. we need to see increased investment in research in the eu, but also in the member states' budgets. an increasing share of these collective efforts should be devoted to developing tomorrow's solutions for the green transition. we're going to make sure that we have good, sustainable transportation and renewable energy that actually delivers what we promised each other in paris. the climate can't wait.
madam president, terrorist attacks have increased in europe since 2014 and that poses a threat to us. these attacks have happened in london, paris, brussels, and now have even reached my own member state, sweden. the problem is that terrorists move easily across borders and we are trying to prevent these attacks nationally. we need, therefore, further legislation to effectively counter terrorism. while different measures are certainly necessary, experts agree that increased cooperation between intelligence services is essential. today, the intelligence services largely operate within their own borders, but terrorists do not share information and terrorists work across the borders. that is the reason why we need to increase cooperation, sharing intelligence and analyses between the european security intelligence services. that is the only way we can protect europeans and that is what we have to do.
madam president, in may 2016 when geo-blocking was presented, a lot of promises were made to our citizens: that they would be able in the future to see their favourite films, tv series and songs that were not available in their country of origin. however, we deceived our citizens: the compromise on which we are voting is very limited. it will allow a swedish customer who wants to buy a toaster to go to the german website and buy it – but only if he can secure the delivery by himself. it will allow a danish family to buy a trip directly to an amusement park in france and without being directed to the danish website. oh, how big! i am voting in favour of this compromise because of the advantages it still gives to our citizens, but at the same time i’m thinking: ‘come on, we could have done much, much better’.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me start by thanking the european parliament, and in particular the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, and its chair, ms blinkevičiūtė, for putting this important topic on the agenda today, on the occasion of the international day of zero tolerance for female genital mutilation. i remember our past discussions on this subject, and i am happy that the european parliament is shedding light again on this evil practice. i want to say a few words about statistics, but whenever we start speaking about figures, we forget that we are speaking about real people and real tragedies of women and children, women and girls. so let me share two stories with you. last year, i met ms assiatou diallo. she is now 49. she underwent fgm when she was 3 years old. now, she is the mother of two teenage girls aged 16 and 18. she arrived in belgium from guinea 10 years ago: she escaped in order to save her girls from undergoing female genital mutilation. i wish you could all meet her. her life has not been easy. but she is active in the groupe pour l’abolition des mutilations sexuelles féminines, a belgian ngo, and she speaks loudly about the need to stop the practice. i have also read the story of jaha dukureh, who is 24. as an infant growing up in gambia, she experienced female genital mutilation. as she describes, it took away a part of her femininity, her ownership of her body. some girls, including her half-sister, who died from complications resulting from being cut, even lose their lives. we must keep in mind these real stories of real women and girls. we must think about them. we must work for them and we must fight those who are committing this horrible crime. neither custom, tradition, culture, privacy, religion nor so-called honour can justify violence. let me come back to statistics. estimates show that at least half a million of the girls and women who have suffered female genital mutilation live in europe in 13 eu member states. the commission has been active in working towards prevention, as well as ensuring adequate support for victims since 2013, mainstreaming the importance of preventing and eradicating female genital mutilation, and actively contributing to several services. we believe that it is important to work on different areas at the same time and to tackle the issue from different angles and across the portfolios. this is why the communication is an action plan built around five priority areas: the first is improving knowledge and data; the second, supporting sustainable social change; the third, priority protection; the fourth, prosecution; and the fifth priority is combating fgm worldwide. within our rights, equality and citizenship programme we have issued a specific call on projects relating to female genital mutilation and other harmful practices. the last call, worth eur 9.7 million, closed in november 2017, and a new call, worth eur 10.6 million, will open on 8 march this year. moreover, the european institute for gender equality has developed a common methodology and indicators to estimate the risk of fgm. under the heading of development policy outreach outside the eu we are one of the main contributors to the united nations joint programme on the abandonment of fgm. through the programme, to which the eu contributes eur 11 million, more than 1.5 million girls and women have received mutilation-related protection and care services. in addition, since 2016 the eu has supported seven projects implemented by civil society organisations in third countries to put an end to this practice. the ‘spotlight initiative’ intends to target specific issues and prevalent forms of gender-based violence in different global regions, in a comprehensive manner and on the basis of evidence. in africa, for example, the priority is to eliminate female genital mutilation. the role of the commission also consists of disseminating training materials for legal practitioners through the european e-justice portal. one thing must be emphasised here. fgm is a crime in all eu member states. its criminalisation is also required under the istanbul convention, and its victims therefore also fall within the scope of the convention’s prevention, support and protection measures in those member states that have ratified the convention. so far, there have been 17 within the eu. all the others, which have started the process of accession through signing, are now assessing their legal frameworks. the way to ratification is not always easy, and recently we have seen very worrying signals in several member states whereby the issues of ideology and religion have been brought into the discussion. but the convention is clearly about protecting girls and women from violence based on the fact that they are women, nothing else, and nothing less. the efforts to combat fgm and support its victims are integrated into eu legislation, notably the victims’ rights directive. the reform of the common european asylum system put forward by the commission in 2016 aims to reinforce the protection safeguards available to persons with special needs seeking asylum in europe. relevant provisions of the reception conditions directive stipulate that victims should receive the necessary medical and psychological treatment, and staff working with them should have appropriate training. female genital mutilation has to stop in europe. it is a crime in all member states, but girls continue to be cut. the legal framework is important, but it is not enough, unfortunately. the research by the european institute for gender equality for the new study to be published in may clearly shows that in order for the rules to work, the police and the courts must enforce them and prosecute those responsible for crimes. training for people implementing the law is vital, combined with raising awareness of the legislation amongst the communities involved. we must work together with all stakeholders at all levels, from our political dialogues with national administrations to our support for doctors, religious leaders and parents determined to eradicate female genital mutilation once and for all.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, today on international day against female genital mutilation we give a voice to the hundreds of millions of girl victims. let’s join forces and say loud and clear: ‘my issue too. for everyone, everywhere’. fgm is a harmful practice that can have serious consequences, including physical and psychological damage on girls. we are talking about little girls as young as four to eight years old. and no culture, no tradition can justify this terrible violence. as co-rapporteur on the istanbul convention, as you mentioned madam commissioner, we call once again on all member states to ratify and enforce the convention fully. it criminalises fgm. it provides strict sanctions and medical and psychological support for victims. member states must do more faster and better to combat impunity, bring perpetrators to justice, work on prevention, identify girls at risk at an early stage, provide access to health care and reproductive services and train professionals. member states should also fully implement the directive on protection of victims and consider, as you said, fgm in the asylum process. the victims should be considered vulnerable groups. madam commissioner, i fully support the eu commitment to step up cooperation with third countries, providing technical assistance to encourage the adoption of laws banning fgm, and ensuring that these laws are fully enforced. but no sustainable change can happen without involving the local communities, and we need to work hand in hand with civil society at grass-root level to empower girls to speak up and to change behaviour, to promote changed behaviour, including in refugee camps, as was said here, for girls on the move. i fully support the fgm european network and many other children’s rights champions and i welcome them to the european parliament today. let’s support their campaign wholeheartedly. it is about girls’ dignity, it is about the integrity of their bodies, it is about gender equality. with the epp group and the intergroup on children’s rights, we continue to be committed to zero tolerance of fgm and all forms of violence against women and girls.
for the gue/ngl group. mrs. talman, please. we are very much in agreement here in the house, commissioner, that we must do more to combat female genital mutilation, both in our own countries and globally. but if we want to succeed in doing that, we have to recognize that fgm is a form of violence against women, among other things. a patriarchal attack on women's bodies and sexuality, just like so much other violence, just like other attacks on our bodies. in that sense, the fight against female genital mutilation is for me part of the feminist sisterhood; the fight for our bodies, our right to control them, the right to our sexuality. and in that sense, fgm should be part of a comprehensive strategy to combat violence against women and girls. that is a strategy we are still waiting for, commissioner. what we also need to do to be successful is to learn from the organizations and actors who have worked for decades in different countries with very small funds to combat female genital mutilation, and this is often in other parts of the world. we must also demand, as some colleagues have said, that women and girls who are victims or at risk of female genital mutilation be granted asylum here with us. and lastly, and perhaps most importantly, give more support to women's organizations which work tirelessly but with far too little money. what we do not need, ladies and gentlemen - we will certainly hear it from far-right actors later on in this debate - what we do not need is for racists across europe to exploit some form of violence against women in order to whip up more of their racist or anti-refugee policies. we on the left will never accept that. fighting female genital mutilation is about feminist sisterhood, and it's something we're going to do together.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? female genital mutilation is one of the most blatant expressions of male oppression of women. men take power over women by denying them the right to their own bodies and their own sexuality. it is a terrible assault on the sexual freedom and integrity of girls and women, and on their physical and mental health. abuse is not limited to physical violence but also includes psychological and sexual abuse. the problem is not just one of religion or identity, but is an expression of patriarchy and the domination of men over women. it is estimated that half a million women in the eu live with the scars of fgm and 90,000 of them, one fifth, live in my own country, sweden. these women must have the right to good and well-functioning clinical care but also the right to see a psychiatrist. efforts must also be made to strengthen prevention so that these abuses never happen again. we need to strengthen cooperation between all the institutions of society to tackle the problem. we need to educate ourselves on the issue, collect data at national and eu level on the extent of the problem. we need to raise the child perspective on a broader front, as it is primarily young girls who are the victims of abuse. the issue must not be isolated, it must not stand alone, but we must put it in a larger context and understand that female genital mutilation is a matter of violence. it's 2018 now, it's high time that member states start respecting girls' and women's own bodies.
madam president, i would like to thank you. imagine someone taking a rusty razor blade and cutting into your abdomen - that's impossible to imagine, isn't it? yet, this is the reality for millions of women worldwide. every day, 8,000 girls are sexually assaulted. in sweden, there are 10,000 girls at risk. it is about violence against women in its most horrible form, all to curtail women's ability to enjoy and control their own bodies. we in the european parliament are taking up this fight today against the age-old tradition of continued violations of the sexual freedom and physical and mental health of girls and women. female genital mutilation is also a valid reason for asylum. there is a consensus that this is a violation of human rights. nevertheless, several eu countries consider that women who have been subjected to fgm should not be allowed to remain in the union. we need a global unity against this despicable practice, and more countries ratifying the istanbul convention. it's really about violence. only then will we be able to deal with this problem.
in writing. it's time to take action against female genital mutilation, once and for all! the deliberate violence against girls and women through female genital mutilation can no longer be tolerated in the member states. the member states can act in a united manner on this important issue. the un and who estimate that between 125 and 140 million women and girls have been sexually mutilated and are permanently scarred for life. the so-called eige report shows that 13 eu member states are allowing this to happen in one way or another. sweden is one of the countries with the highest proportion of migrants from so-called fgm/c risk areas. this has to stop. it is important to point out that this is not a question underlying the right of asylum, mainly because this will encourage female genital mutilation in order to obtain asylum. female genital mutilation is only to be considered a capital offense and nothing else. member states can join together to show that it is not acceptable, because it is not worthy of a modern europe, that young girls are being mutilated.
mr president, 25 years ago i was stuck in a besieged sarajevo that was being shelled daily. friends were killed by snipers while searching for food; others got raped. all became refugees like myself. i can tell you that, afterwards, you become haunted by these memories almost every day. i hope that this step we are taking today towards enlargement will successfully close the door on that dark period, and open a new one to the brighter european future of the balkans. do we know why we are doing this? yes, certainly. we don’t have any other choice. do we know how we will do it? no, but we will find that out on the way. do we know should we do it? yes, certainly, without any doubt. my story is just one, just a small part of what has happened, and i hope this is the last time a parliamentarian will share these stories in this chamber. so, let’s start this enlargement now. this evening i will be in my room, working on this. (applause)
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. it has been a long time since anything went right in turkey, and i suffer with all the turkish citizens from different ethnic groups, trade unions, religions, political parties, and many others who see their rights increasingly restricted as president erdogan takes a stronger grip on the whole of society in his hunt for dissenters, both within and outside the country's borders. a candidate country is expected to live up to the eu's core values, i.e. respect for the rule of law and for fundamental civil and human rights. but turkey's courts are not independent. people are accused of terrorism without any reason and are imprisoned for years without trial. freedom of the press and freedom of speech do not exist. since 2016, over 6 million turkish citizens have been subject to judicial investigations due to suspicion of crime, sometimes solely due to an opinion expressed on social media. 107,000 have lost their jobs without legal grounds. violence is never a long-term solution, no matter who uses it. i also suffer with all those who have been killed and are still being killed in the conflict in south-eastern turkey, in terrorist attacks around turkey and now also in the totally unjust war in northern syria. erdogan's statement that he wants to keep the border free of terrorists does not hold up, and we all know it. turkey's attacks are attacks on another state, not defence, and therefore violate international law. today, instead, the world should be thanking all those brave women and men for their resistance and military efforts to defeat daesh. we have them to thank for so much. but our response is to stand by silently while turkey, with the help of syrian rebels, slaughters kurdish children, women and men in one of the most peaceful areas of syria. a region that has also received many syrian internally displaced persons. already after the first days of the war, i received a lot of pictures of injured and dead children sent to my phone. if i'm not mistaken, erdogan meant that al assad is a child killer, which is true, but what does he call himself? i am clearly concerned about the message that our inaction sends both to erdogan and to the people of afrin and the rest of rojava. if we want to live up to our own principles and to international law, we should vigorously protest and condemn the ongoing attack on afrin. for example, we can stop all arms exports to turkey. the nato countries should reflect on what kind of membership they are, and we are obviously not going to give erdogan the favors he wants most, such as customs union and visa facilitation and so on.
madam president, last week taner kılıç, the chair of amnesty international turkey, was rearrested by turkish police and charged with membership of an armed terrorist organisation. many other human rights activists have been arrested and labelled by the turkish government as terrorists. according to several reports from human rights organisations, since july 2016 the turkish government has started a crack—down on human rights. civil servants, journalists, teachers, police, military, judges and prosecutors – anyone that does not openly support the government is at risk. civil society is being paralysed. the turkish government is not only attacking human rights defenders; it is also attacking other countries, for example in its military operation in afrin, syria. i, as a feminist, with full respect for international human rights conventions, will not join the group of eu leaders that are ignoring attacks on human rights because of a migration deal.
in writing. the human rights situation in turkey is extremely serious. we get reports of case after case of violations of fundamental rights. these are human rights activists, journalists, academics and opposition figures. it's about those who don't agree with erdoğan. it is also about those who are protesting against the turkish offensive against the population of kurdish-controlled afrin. what is happening in afrin is deeply troubling. the turkish offensive against the kurdish population in afrin is a violation of international law. it undermines the work of peace, democracy and human rights. the offensive must be stopped immediately. the solution to the war in syria can only be found at the negotiating table, and we must remember that the kurds have been an important ally in the fight against the terrorists of daesh. the eu must not turn its eyes away from what is happening in turkey and what is happening in afrin. we must increase political efforts to promote peace and to prevent escalation. i would like to call on foreign minister mogherini to pay the utmost attention to the human rights situation in turkey. i would also urge mogherini to listen to our deep concern for the people of afrin, and to work for an immediate end to turkey's destabilising offensive.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? two years ago, i stood in this chamber and spoke about the fact that the un relief agency unrwa had the smallest budget in 10 years while the international community had failed to provide even the minimum of aid to the people of gaza. today, i am here again following the announcement by the united states that it will drastically reduce its support for unrwa. history repeats itself. now $500 million is missing, while over 5 million palestinian refugees are completely dependent on humanitarian aid. we know the importance of unrwa's mission and we know that the reduction in funding has very serious humanitarian and political consequences in one of the most vulnerable regions in the world. we must not allow these savings to continue. i still find it very uplifting to listen to mogherini and hahn and others here. we're very much in agreement across party lines, and that still gives me a little bit of hope. i will not stand here again in a number of years and be concerned about the vulnerability that the palestinians continue to live in, and which is a risk to the entire international community. so thank you for a great debate. and now we actually have to do things. we're not going to be community builders for the palestinians. they're going to build their own communities and feel strong and free.
madam president, transnational lists are a magnet that will draw power away from citizens and their parties in the member states and give it to the leadership of european parties. that is why some people like them, but this is not going to be good for democracy. the european parties will decide who gets on the list. the european parties will decide what manifesto they run on, and the national parties will be under enormous pressure to align their policies with the policies of their european party. this will alienate the voters, who will no longer be able to vote for a party in the member state that represents their policies and their preferences. instead, they will have to vote for someone who in reality represents a european party. let’s oppose it: let’s learn something from brexit.
madam president, the question of what to do with 73 seats in this chamber after the uk has left has been discussed and i have argued in my member state that these seats should be re-allocated to the member states, especially those who have been disadvantaged in the last composition. some of the seats should be saved for the next eu enlargement, especially to the western balkans. but i want as well to express my support for the idea of joint constituencies as of the european elections in 2019. it is a way to enhance the direct link between citizens and eu policymakers. i strongly believe that eu citizens should be able to vote for candidates that express ideas and visions for the whole european union. it will allow the first candidate on each list to be considered for the european commission, thus acknowledging the irreversibility of the spitzenkandidaten process.
madam president, the problem with the democratic deficit in europe is a simple one. i vote in the european elections and, before 2014, the party i was voting for, even if it held the majority here, was not assured that it would get the position of european commission president. the position was attributed through backroom deals among the eu leaders, in secrecy, and in this regard for european democracy the link between my vote and the outcome of the election was blurred. i am a strong supporter of the spitzenkandidaten process because it diminished the democratic deficit. it gives citizens the right to directly influence how the commission will lead. i voted for this report since its repeats the simple truth that the spitzenkandidat is necessary for our european democracy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as an election geek, i'm not exactly impressed by the parliament's proposal. i understand the council has had trouble dealing with it. it centralizes a little too much as if centralization itself was an intrinsic value. i hope that the council will reject the things that should be rejected, and remember that the council actually has to decide by unanimity. one of the things that needs to be rejected is the proposal to introduce thresholds that would exclude parties that have the votes of millions of citizens. we're not gonna put up artificial thresholds to keep parties out. people vote for small parties too. small parties help to make the european parliament better do not approve of such nonsense.
author. – madam president, on 17 january, the office of the russian human rights ngo memorial was set on fire. the week before, mr titiev, the head of memorial’s office in chechnya, was arrested on, according to human rights organisations, fabricated charges of drug possession. according to reports from human rights ngos, the number of political prisoners in russia has increased. there is also great concern regarding the human right abuses and torture of lgbti people in chechnya. russian authorities, you have to investigate and stop the assault on human right defenders in chechnya and in other parts of your country. this is a clear breach of all the international human rights conventions that you have signed. i, as a feminist, find the constant harassment and assault on human rights in russia unacceptable and the eu cannot ignore these attacks on human rights. we cannot stay silent. the commission and member states have to assist those who have fled chechnya, but also the human rights defenders who are still in russia.
madam chairman, i want to join my colleagues in speaking. the titiyev case is an indictment of putin's russian regime. putin is directly responsible for the human rights violations in chechnya, and that's how we have to label it. there is a puppet government in chechnya that is directly under the kremlin, and i just want to remind you that we were here recently discussing human rights violations in chechnya in relation to the criminal harassment, torture of homosexuals in this small country. that is, it shows once again the face of the putin regime, which allows the autonomous rulers there to commit such atrocities on the territory of chechnya. it is therefore good that we are adopting this resolution, but we should really keep in mind what is happening in russia in all the negotiations between the european states and the russian federation and we should constantly point out that putin and russia cannot be a solid partner for the european union in this situation.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank all the speakers for their contributions to this very important debate at this critical time. unfortunately, it is not the first time that we have discussed here human rights violations in the russian federation. in the past 12 months, we have debated in this chamber: the repression that followed the anti-corruption demonstrations organised on 26 march 2017; the fate of ukrainian prisoners in russia; the situation in the illegally annexed crimean peninsula, and the persecution of lgbt people in chechnya. today we are discussing the dire human rights situation in chechnya, and this time specifically the increased pressure on, and harassment of, human rights defenders in the north caucasus russian republic. the arrest and detention of oyub titiev, who is the head of the regional office of the respected ngo memorial, is the main reason we are here today. the spokesperson for the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy issued a statement on 11 january on the arrest of mr titiev, pointing out that it was part of a worrying trend of arrests, as well as attacks on, and the intimidation and discrediting of, independent journalists and human rights defenders who work in chechnya. similar cases in the past include those of the journalist zhalaudi geriev and the chair of the assembly of the peoples of the caucasus, ruslan kutaev, who were both sentenced to imprisonment on dubious grounds of drug possession, the same charge now being levelled against mr titiev. the case of mr titiev is especially of concern, given that his predecessor as head of memorial in chechnya, ms natalia estemirova, was killed in 2009 and no one has been brought to justice for that crime. mr titiev’s arrest was quickly followed by an arson attack on the memorial office in neighbouring ingushetia and by an attack on one of memorial’s cars in dagestan. it is clear that the arrest and the attacks are part of a concerted assault on human rights defenders working in chechnya. sadly, recent statements from the authorities, including from the head of the chechen republic, ramzan kadyrov, denigrating the work of human rights defenders, leave us with the fear that these attacks are being orchestrated by the chechen authorities themselves, as was the case in the persecution of gay men last year. as we have said, we expect the federal and regional authorities in the russian federation fully to observe mr titiev’s legal rights, in accordance with russia’s international human rights commitments, and to release him swiftly. it is time for the russian authorities to call to order the chechen leadership and ensure that abuses stop once and for all. let me conclude by confirming our strong support for the russian human rights community and independent civil society, and in particular for those working in the most difficult conditions, in terms of human rights violations, in chechnya. we will continue urging the russian authorities at all levels to ensure that human rights defenders can continue their work unmolested in all regions of russia, including chechnya.
author. – madam president, today we are debating the executions in egypt. capital punishment constitutes a violation of the right to life. it is the ultimate cruel, inhumane and degrading treatment against a human being. no challenges, no circumstances whatsoever can motivate the killing of a human being. the position of the european parliament is global abolishment. we stand for that. the doubling of executions in egypt in one year is not an exception. authoritarian regimes use military courts that have harsher sentences than civilian courts, and they use laws on terrorism to specifically target their activities on human rights defenders. many have been denied access to lawyers during their trials and they have been forced to confess through torture. they have been put in solitary confinement and they have been denied the most basic privileges. i call on president el-sisi to immediately stop all executions and to abolish the death penalty in your country. i say to ms mogherini, you have to stand up for the values of the european union and condemn the executions.
mr president, i would say that there is inflation in the number of cases in which this house votes to enter into negotiations on the basis of a mandate that is put to the vote in committee and not in plenary, and that is problematic. it is, of course, reasonable if there is a broad consensus in the relevant committee on the substance, but, in this case, on the most important parts of this matter, there were only three votes that made the difference. that is not enough. there should also be a reflection of what is voted on in committee and in other opinion-giving committees, which again is not the case here, as the outcome does not reflect, for example, the transport committee’s vote. essentially the issue is, of course, less about how much information truck users should give away to help us know how much co2 emissions they produce and more about how much information they should give away so that chinese competitors can get their upper edge. the principal question, which is probably more important, is that the european parliament plenary should decide on the mandate for the european parliament to enter into negotiation and should not regularly delegate that decision to the environment committee, or any other committee for that matter. therefore we should vote against entering negotiations on the basis of this mandate without scrutinising it. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i wholeheartedly welcome the report as it addresses key challenges in the area of fundamental rights and also addresses the recent worrying developments in certain member states. i would like to congratulate mr engel on a very comprehensive text which is also very timely. some colleagues have already mentioned the recent attacks on freedom of speech. the assassination of journalists is an absolute disaster, a tragedy beyond words, and my heart reaches out to the people suffering now from the sorrow of the loss. rule of law, democracy and respect for fundamental rights must always be upheld, because they are the principles and values upon which the european union was founded. i would just like to mention that the common european asylum system needs to be addressed. we are lacking this in the union at this moment and we need to ensure that a resilient system is built, based on the participation of all member states and the fair sharing of responsibilities, as is mentioned in the report. it is imperative that the rule of law also prevails in respect of those seeking asylum in our union. we have all ratified the geneva convention, so it goes without saying that this is imperative. it is also imperative to defend and protect values and principles and to take action in any case of breaches of these values.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we live in a time when our fundamental freedoms and rights are being challenged in europe. in a spirit of collective fear of terrorism and migrants, the feeling of nationalism and undemocratic forces is reinforced. everything is worth sacrificing on the altar of fear, and minorities in particular are particularly vulnerable in various countries. but that's not enough. eu countries legislate or otherwise act to restrict freedom of expression and/or press, limit the independence of the judiciary and/or allow corruption to drain common resources with impunity. the eu can do nothing in principle. for several months, former eu member of parliament oriol junqueras has been detained in spain along with three others, accused of, among other things, rebellion and incitement during the disputed referendum in october 2017 in catalonia, despite the fact that no violence was used from the catalan side. the spanish court argues that they should have understood that the spanish police would use force; therefore, they are guilty. when two fundamental eu values conflict, the importance of adhering to one must not be seen as a limitation of the other.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am glad that we are making a report every year on fundamental rights in the eu. it is extremely important to me to know how the citizens of the european union are doing. the report raises many important issues, but most of the time these reports feel more like fine words on paper. i have been a member of the european parliament for more than a decade. the same questions have been raised every year without any major improvement. it is particularly sad for me to see how refugee situations have been handled. here we see that the victims are women and children. it's a shame! we should be ashamed that we do not have a solidarity policy for refugees. i also look with sadness at the eu's gender equality policy. many issues have been raised on the eu table over the years, such as male violence against women, but progress has been far too slow. all member states must sign the istanbul convention! we must also take the fight for a more equal society more seriously and work harder. the commission is to give us a gender equality strategy and a human trafficking strategy now. it gives more than we think and puts pressure on the member states. it's 2018, and women should have the same basic rights as men.
mr president, 149 men named selimovic – just like me – are in graves in srebrenica. i’ve been for years listening to stories about what happened to them – the serbian, croatian and bosniak version – and of course, all involved have the rights to their own story. but if we are not to live in a state of internal denial and nationalistic autism, one single truth has to be established. by unearthing the graves, by examining the military orders and mutilated bodies, icty tried to establish the truth. we need it desperately. we need it to acknowledge the suffering. we need it for possible future reconciliation, and we need in order to be able to continue our lives without shame. and i do believe that the balkans need it in order to wake up from the nationalistic nightmare. has the truth been established? no – the complete truth can never be established. but thanks to the works of icty, the number lies have been diminished, and that is more than enough.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would first like to congratulate my colleague, javier nart, for a well drafted report. despite the defeat of isis, we are not in a position to declare victory over terrorism. instead, we should learn from both the rise and fall of islamic state. one lesson is that the combination of military means and cutting off the financial lifeblood of isis has paved the way for its departure. another lesson is that, after the dismantling of an organisation like isis, there will be a vacuum. certain actors will do their utmost to fill that space with new jihadist organisations, and for that they will need money. cutting the funding sources of terrorist networks should therefore be considered a key priority. it constitutes an effective tool, hampering the effectiveness of these networks. to achieve this, implementation is crucial: the member states, for instance, should deliver when it comes to the exchange of intelligence. with common efforts, the eu is able to cope with the bloodstream of jihadism: the capital flow that today finances international terrorism.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. would you imagine giving birth in a car, 50 miles from the nearest midwife? women in sollefteå, northern sweden, are forced to do this because the maternity ward is closed. the countryside must live. the growing disparity between rural and urban areas is a major problem. in my home country of sweden, terrified first-time parents are forced to drive many miles to the nearest bb, and that is unworthy of a welfare state like sweden. services such as health care and medical care must be available to everyone, no matter where you happen to live. this report is about highlighting the need for gender equality in rural areas and the needs of women there. around the world, rural women face challenges that affect their lives and the opportunity to create a secure life in freedom. it is also important that the report highlights the need for climate justice and the situation of women in poorer countries. they must have their rights respected as regards the right to the land they use and the right to their own bodies. this is particularly important given that women are key agents of change at local level in addressing the impacts of climate change.
mr president, i also think that the issue of the global compact on migration is more or less consensual in this house. i fully agree with parts of what my colleague has just said, but we need to send a strong message that this house should be united in finding a global solution. unfortunately, this week’s plenary agenda is already full, and i would rather have a full debate next month than only a short statement by the high representative this week, especially as we know that the negotiations in new york are expected to continue until july. if we can put this on the agenda in april and properly prepare a strong and united response from this house, it will also strengthen the position of our own european negotiators in new york. let’s do the whole thing next session because this week is already so full.
the rapporteur. president. - the debate is closed. on the left, we want trade policy to contribute to a fairer distribution of the world's resources and wealth. we want it to help stop climate change, to strengthen democracy and we are working on all of these. but with this report we wanted to focus on the situation of women and on gender equality. international trade policy is an important part of our economic policy. it's an important part of our foreign policy. trade policy deals with fundamental issues of democracy, human rights, workers' rights, consumer safety, public health, and basic climate and environmental regulations. all these elements also concern gender equality and the situation of women. trade policy is not gender neutral. women are affected differently than men depending on their position in the economy, depending on whether it is an export-oriented economy, whether it is a more agricultural-oriented economy, depending on the employment situation, etc. we shall take all this into account in our report. we believe that it is no longer enough to have the slogans that we are going to export democracy or we are going to export equality or human rights or sustainable development or any of the other areas that we care so much about. we need to formulate tools and have control instruments so that what we say becomes reality as well and so that our negotiators focus on the right things and know what we expect of them. international trade policy has rested somewhat on an outdated view, which has meant that all demands on the environment and human rights or gender equality have been answered with the reply 'ah, they don't belong here, you can fix them elsewhere with some other tools or in another negotiation'. we mean that time must be over. trade policy is an exclusive competence which the member states have given to the eu. it is therefore particularly important and reasonable that we discuss and review and set up a framework for what we want future agreements to look like. in this work we have had enormous support from civil society, women's organisations and mr organisations. we've had expertise, and we've had discussions and hearings. i would like to thank my co-rapporteur, mrs eleonora forenza, and my shadow rapporteurs. we have had different priorities and in some cases different approaches, but those who took on this task from their respective groups were clearly the ones most interested in seeing and analysing the impact on women and formulating constructive criticism and proposals. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for that. i will not go through all the individual parts of the report, but i would like to highlight some of the most important parts. as forenza has said, we want to see a gender chapter with objectives on women's rights and women's economic empowerment - objectives that must build on the beijing platform, which will have gender experts and civil society involved in its follow-up, and we will have an audit of compliance with this chapter. we also want the eu's trade policy to combat exploitation and aim to improve the working conditions of women in the export industry, whether it be in agriculture, textiles or elsewhere. we believe that ilo standards and the un sustainable development goals are central to this. we also believe that there should be binding rules on respect for human rights, democracy, working conditions and the environment. trade policies shall not undermine access to public services, education, health, including sexual and reproductive health and rights. we also believe that the un convention on the status of women (sido) should be included in the trade agreements and that the eu itself should join. we want to see due diligence in a real way for companies. as i said, i would like to thank my co-rapporteur, my colleagues and the shadow rapporteurs. so here are some of the things our report calls for if we want the eu's trade policy to be able to meet both global needs and expectations. i now look forward to the commission going from words to action, also on gender equality in trade policy.
rapporteur. – madam president, i must start by thanking my co-rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs, my colleagues azadeh jafari and roberta paoletti, and wide, an organisation working with the global south and in the eu for women’s rights and which has provided expertise for us in this work. i think some of my colleagues here have said what this report actually started with: the question of trade for whom and for what? and the answer coming back is that it is not neutral. it is certainly not neutral when it comes to women. we took it upon ourselves to formulate some of the principles, and it is true that trade polices cannot fix everything, but it cannot be free-floating, from human rights, from women’s rights, from environmental rights and public health. the bottom line has been said here over and over again, there has to be some stepping-up of the work, there has to be some binding measures. i think our report outlines some of the key elements of that. i hear from the commission that you welcome our report, and that is very nice, i also hear about the toolbox, the data collection, the women entrepreneurs, all important things, but i am missing the commitment that we will take this on board – the gender chapter, the binding things, the references to cedaw, to the sdgs, etc. so we look forward to ms malmström, and you and the commission, coming back and discussing these things with us. i hope and i expect the commission to take this on board because it also means a lot in who we are as a player on the global level. these are actions that we see for the eu as a trade partner itself, but also who we are when we negotiate global trade deals and trade policies, be it at wto or un level. we have to look ourselves in the eye. nobody else is going to take gender equality further, as well as social rights, in eu trade deals if we don’t do it. so i think as some of my colleagues have said, it is time to pass to action, passer à l’action.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, gender-based violence and harassment are persistent problems in europe. we are all familiar with the figures: from the age of 15, one in three women in europe has been a victim of physical violence, sexual violence or both; 55% of women are victims of sexual harassment. violence against women is a violation of human rights. the commission takes the fight against this very seriously, which is why we made 2017 the year of action to combat violence against women. in june 2017 the eu signed the council of europe’s istanbul convention on the prevention and protection of victims of gender-based violence. the commission’s intention is to conclude full eu ratification as soon as possible. i would like to thank the european parliament for constantly speaking out alongside the commission about the importance of ratifying the council of europe convention on prevention and protection of victims of gender-based violence. despite the fact that all eu countries have signed the convention and 17 have so far ratified it, we see strong opposition against ratification in a few countries. the convention has generated very intense public debates where there have been misconceptions and misleading arguments. for example, these concern the use and translation of the term ‘gender’. they concern the fear that ratifying the convention would mean forcing states to allow same-sex marriage or to introduce a new refugee status for transgender or intersex persons. let me be very clear on this. the convention is about preventing and combating violence against women without other hidden purposes. it is not an instrument for shaping gender perceptions or ideologies. it applies to women who become victims of violence simply because they are women. the convention does not oblige states to allow same-sex marriage. in fact, no reference is made to the legal recognition of same-sex marriages: this subject is outside of the scope of the convention. it also does not oblige states to have their schools give lessons about sexual orientation or gender identity. nowhere in the convention is it stated that a new refugee status should be established for transgender or intersex persons or for any other group. the convention requires parties to introduce a gender-sensitive perspective into the examination of asylum requests to take into account why and how women experience persecution – for example, the risk of female genital mutilation. i sincerely hope that those member states that still have doubts about joining the convention will consider its fundamental purpose: to prevent violence against women and to support and protect those women who fall victim to violence.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, six months ago, we were here adopting eu accession to the istanbul convention with a large majority. today, we are here again. we are not going to quit until women are free from violence. the convention is the only binding treaty that criminalises violence against women and domestic violence. it defines violence done to a woman just because she is a woman, based on sexism and discrimination. it is about women being harassed, beaten up, raped or killed, and girls forced to marry or mutilated. it is not about any ideology or religion. last june, i proudly represented parliament at the signature of the eu accession to the convention, a historic step towards preventing those horrible crimes, combating impunity and protecting victims. since then, estonia, cyprus and germany have ratified it, and now we urge the 11 remaining member states to ratify it. there has been much misrepresentation of the convention, for instance, in bulgaria, croatia, poland, slovakia, and even ukraine. the council of europe commissioner for human rights recently clarified that the arguments pretending that the word ‘gender’ has hidden purposes are simply not true. he said that it means the socially constructed roles and behaviours that a society considers appropriate for women and men. it is about combating stereotypes. it is not against the traditional family. it is violence that endangers families, not the convention. today, we call on the eu and the council of europe to do more, in dialogue with member states, on the issue of gender, engaging with civil society, religious groups and women ngos, we call on the presidency to put this issue on the agenda of the european council for as long as it takes, and we call on bulgaria to reopen the ratification process. there is no other gender equality issue worth discussing for as long as women continue to be abused. as co—rapporteur on the istanbul convention, i can say that we remain committed to zero tolerance of violence against women.
madam president, violence against women and girls is an issue of democracy, but it is also a question of life and death. the istanbul convention is an instrument of human rights law, the best international instrument that we have to work on prevention, protection and prosecution. the eu has signed it. all the eu member states have signed it, but there are 11 that have not ratified it, among them the country holding our presidency – bulgaria. it is a shame that nobody from the presidency is here to see how they can take this forward in the council. now we have some member states that actually say that they are questioning it altogether. it is unacceptable and, as has been said, a sign of general regression for women’s rights. the istanbul convention is not an ideological battle, other than the one to end violence against women and girls, and that is perhaps political and ideological enough. it does not give rights to lgbti people either. i must say that i am appalled by the homophobia that i have heard. those who attack the istanbul convention are attacking women’s rights and lgbti rights. they attack all of us. but it will not work because we will stand up to you. we will make the world a safe place for women, girls and lgbti people.
in writing. the istanbul convention has as its objective and purpose the protection of women against all forms of violence and the prevention, prosecution and elimination of violence against women and domestic violence, as stated in article 1 of the convention. the eu acceded to the istanbul convention in may 2017 and sweden in november 2014. despite this, the proportion of women who reported sexual violence in sweden has increased from 1.8 per cent in 2014 to 4.1 per cent in 2016, according to brå, and it looks like it will continue to increase. according to reports, one in three women has been subjected to physical, psychological and/or sexual violence. one in 20 women have been raped. 55% of women report having been sexually harassed. honor-related violence is also on the rise, despite the fact that many politicians have long tried to deny that this type of violence exists. women in sweden and across europe are now wearing the veil and burqa in ever-increasing numbers, while women in iran are throwing their veils at the risk of their lives in protest against oppression. courageous women, but where is europe going and what is the eu doing? all forms of violence, oppression against women, are a brutal form of discrimination and a violation of human rights, and they must be taken seriously, now.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the reason i took up this report was really to save the swedish education model. we have our transport schools, where swedish students get their driver's licenses, learn to drive trucks and learn the basics. once you have your driving licence, you go to an established riding school to learn how to drive. it's the fastest way to learn the trade. there was a proposal from the commission at the time that this should not be allowed in commercial transport. the reason for this was that it was thought that this would be a form of wage dumping where inexperienced drivers would drive cheaper. however, this is not the case in this training model, where you have an experienced and experienced driver as a tutor who sits next to you and is with the student all day. in this way, the student also gets a very quick insight into how it works as a driver. another thing that i'm very happy that i got through is what we call electric distribution cars. in future, therefore, small lorries of 3.5 tonnes will be allowed to drive with a b licence and a total weight of up to 4 250 kg. i think it was necessary to do this because when you replace the petrol or diesel engine with an electric motor and a relatively heavy battery, you have no load capacity left on these cars. now we have arranged this by allowing b licences up to 4 250 kg. i also made a proposal on extreme weather conditions, which is something that as a driver is quite important to know. i myself, as many of you know, have a background in the transport industry and know what a difficult winter road can look like. in norway, for example, there are big problems. these are very special circumstances. there's a law that says you have to bring snow chains on the truck. however, it is not necessary to know how to install the snow chains on the truck. well, it doesn't help much if you have the equipment with you but don't have the knowledge of how to use it. so we have included that in the new, updated proposal. i am also pleased that we received a proposal to start work on the establishment of an eu register to help the police to have a tool to detect forged driving licences. it is becoming increasingly common for national police in different member states to stop cars and quickly identify a forged driving licence. this is a big problem. you can log in online and order virtually any licence you want, and for a cost of between 300 and 400 euros, a few weeks later you get a driving licence in your mailbox that is quite impossible for a police patrol to determine at a road check whether it is fake or not. if we get this database in order, we will have given the national police authorities a tool to detect the fake driving licences and thus create greater safety on our roads too.
the rapporteur. president. - the debate is closed. i think we have taken several important steps towards a better form of training, which hopefully also leads to an increase in safety on our roads, when drivers are given the training necessary to drive the vehicles safely. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all my shadow rapporteurs, who have been very good to work with and who have made very constructive proposals. i would also like to thank the commission, which has been very accommodating and has understood the problems i have pointed out in the report. i would also like to thank the estonian presidency, which has also been very constructive in finding a solution.
madam president, for 13 years macedonia has been blocked on its eu path because of the name issue with greece – 13 wasted years. why? well, apparently there is a problem because there is the country of macedonia and the province of macedonia in greece. is that really a problem? as far as i know, there is a province of luxembourg and the country of luxembourg. no problems. there is the state of azerbaijan and the region of azerbaijan in iran. there is georgia in the usa and georgia on the outskirts of the eu. nobody makes a problem out of it. so is this really a problem? no, nobody cares. the problem is that we allow one member state to block accession countries and that we tolerate these expressions of nationalism. i am aware how sensitive this issue is, but we have neither the energy nor the time for these almost childish name games. so please let us stop it.
madam president, when our own mini-trump, mr farage, claims here in this plenary that the european union is bullying the united kingdom, it is his way of informing us that he now understands the consequences of brexit. he understands that when you are leaving the internal market, you’re leaving it. when you are leaving the common legislation, you are leaving it. when you are leaving the cooperation for security, you are leaving it. i must say it doesn’t take a mathematician to understand the consequences of that. but he now understands and blames european union for his propaganda. that is as trump as you can get. we need to be more grown up than that. the european union, the european parliament and the commission – we are of course a part of the negotiations, but we must be more than that. we must take responsibility for europe as such, for what is best for europe; what is best for the united kingdom, in spite of a disoriented government and political establishment; what is best for the remaining countries, and what is best for all of us regarding the economy, financial markets and security. let’s have that in mind. we are not only part of the negotiations, we are responsible for the future of europe. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – dear colleague, i would like to inform you about democracy. the whole idea of democracy is that things are not decided on before. it is decided when you decide, based upon what you decide on and based upon what you think about that decision. that is the parliamentary system in the united kingdom, and that is the parliamentary system of this parliament.
in writing. – i call for the next mff to be feminist – to be non-discriminatory and promoting human rights. i call for maintaining the designation of ´roma people´ as beneficiaries of the esf and the erdf fund, and to explicitly exclude segregational practices from funding. i call for an improved regulation of the yei and erasmus+ to safeguard non-discriminatory participation for young people coming from a disadvantaged socio-economic background, thereby closing the gap between the roma and non-roma youth and guaranteeing that also young roma can fulfil their true potential. and similarly, any other groups, such as people with disabilities, who are now not reached by these programmes. i believe that the internal aspect of the security of european residents, such as the right to live free from gender-based and interpersonal violence, has been neglected by the eu, so i demand that the next mff should provide relevant solutions. i call for human rights, democracy, and rule of law to be integral in the next mff, including the protection and support of ngos and human rights defenders, who are under pressure; the next mff must maintain a dedicated eidhr, one of the strongest tools we have to promote human rights and democracy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. during the last part-session in strasbourg i raised the issue of turkey's attacks on afrin - attacks which have escalated rather than diminished. the other day, i got a distress call from a kurdish man in my messenger. he asks us in parliament to condemn and to act against erdoğan's attacks. he says that if the turkish attacks are not stopped, we could face a new srebrenica. now there is also strong evidence that nato country turkey has until recently allowed thousands of tons of explosives to reach daesh. this is unacceptable and eu countries should immediately stop all exports of such goods and arms to turkey. we also know that a large proportion of the weapons used by daesh came from eu countries. both bulgaria and romania have sent arms to syria via the united states and saudi arabia, in breach of article 7 of the common position. i therefore find it remarkable that three political groups have blocked any reference to daesh weapons in the resolution. the truth is that when the world, thanks to the kurds, has succeeded in stopping daesh, then daesh's weapons are being used against those to whom we should be most grateful. it's a disgrace!
mr president, let’s make it very clear that new jobs and social security will never come from legislation on social issues or on labour markets on a european level; it will only come via the reforms that enable new entrepreneurship, investments and innovations. and let’s be very clear about the differences we see in europe today: we have member states with a high level of growth, and we have member states who are still suffering from the crisis and from the problems coming from that. the main problems are coming from the fact that we have a lack of structural reforms. what we need is cohesion or structural reforms, giving opportunities for a convergence of growth, and we need to have higher targets: we need to set targets for higher levels of potential growth, and this can only be done if we are secure, if we are more attractive for investments, if we are more open for entrepreneurship, or if we create labour markets that are open for new jobs and more flexible. we can do it: we can see that a number of member states who were hit by the crisis have recovered, and other member states have gone quite well. the recovery we see today is fragile because of monetary policy. now we need to make it stable by structural reforms.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think that many of my colleagues have described well the merits of free trade and how important it is that we, on the part of the european union, do not now push for a trade war. if there are measures directed against us, we will of course have to respond, but we must be careful with a very, very unbalanced master on the other side of the atlantic who can act one way one day and go in a completely different direction the next day. what really makes me most sorry about this is perhaps not the direct tariffs now proposed, but the immediate consequences that are being spread. we see, for example, electrolux stopping investment in the united states, and this is just the beginning of the chain reaction we would see if there was a full-scale trade war. at the same time, the eu and the us are losing the energy to direct the energy that we should have been directing towards china and the very unfair trade relations that china has. i therefore hope that we can return to the negotiating table together with the united states, work towards greater free trade and aim the guns where they belong, especially against china's unfair trade rules.
mr president, with ms theresa may making it clear last week that the eu’s access to the single market will be reduced, a hardening of the irish border becomes inevitable. the risk is that this would be a step backwards in the peace process. the good friday agreement strengthened the relationship between communities in northern ireland, between north and south, and across the irish sea, between communities that had been torn apart by violence and conflict. the agreement was made possible because both countries were in the union. the philosophy of it was that when you strengthen one of the relations, you strengthen all of them. the risk now is that by damaging one we can damage them all. i therefore plead with the negotiators to be careful negotiating the future of the relations. i understand that every side is out to get as much as possible in the negotiations, but if we lose the peace, then the eventual gains are worth nothing.
mr president, the next multiannual financial framework will set the tone for our action after 2020, and i am sorry to say that we didn’t seize the opportunity to reform how the budget is voted. i believe the budget should no longer be voted by unanimity in the council. unanimity means very often unsustainable compromises where every member state competes to get the biggest rebate or to pay less. the eu budget is not, it should not be, the christmas tree which every single member states is decorating in its own way. it should, in contrast, reflect the priorities for the union as a whole and it should enable us to close the democratic deficit. that’s why i am sorry that we didn’t take this opportunity.
mr president, somewhere between 14 to 19% of the eu budget will be lacking when brexit happens. it is obvious that this gap will be closed partly by raising the member states’ national contributions and partly by cutting some costs, but there is a risk that it will be difficult to close it completely. we therefore have to explore new possibilities to finance the union, such as collecting revenues from the emission trading schemes. getting own resources is also a possible way of solving the problem that occurs every year in the council when 27 or 28 heads of state fight over who will pay less and get a rebate. getting own resources will strengthen the union, increase its capacity and lessen the burden we put on our citizens.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, madam commissioner, i’m glad that the council and parliament have agreed to the creation of an online platform managed by the commission with the aim to make easily available information to end users through a single portal. there will be services offering guidance for transnational learning, mobility and information on skills and qualifications that could be relevant to the particular needs for third country nationals and that will be especially useful when it comes to integration. the aim to make europe as more user friendly is an important one as it’s making potential users more aware of it. the member states will work together with different stakeholders to achieve this according to the agreement, perhaps the commission’s new proposal for a european labour authority can also be helpful in that regard. we have nonetheless reached a compromise on skills intelligence, which was controversial from the start. now users of the online platform will be able to find an analysis of supply and demand of skills in the labour market and of corresponding learning opportunities. our labour markets are, as has been said earlier here, changing very quickly, and the most important skill moving forward will be flexibility. member states who do not already have education and training systems that allow and support lifelong learning will need to get on that quickly, and i’m glad also that the commissioner mentioned the social pillar, since this is one of the points on that agenda.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have reached the end of the road as far as this is concerned, the climate legislation package, but that does not mean that the work on climate legislation is over, but we will see more initiatives coming. perhaps from this commission, but certainly from the next commission. we also know that we are negotiating at the same time something that is at least as important for climate and for industrial and economic growth, and that is the whole energy union package. if we can get it to land well and progressively and forward-looking in how we shape the design of the energy market and in how we get to a progressive and forward-looking renewable energy directive, then we will be able to solve even more. at the same time, i think that quite a few of us are sitting at home sharpening our knives for the next debate, because as soon as we have the review of the paris agreement in 2023, we will start again with all these revisions that we have wisely put into legislation. which means if we see that this wasn't enough, we can screw it up real good. we are also seeing the full-scale effects of the energy union, which has started, i hope.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we are well on the way to a truly circular economy and it is indeed appropriate to celebrate a little. the legislation we call the waste package raises ambitions for both recycling and reuse within the eu. our targets are ambitious, even for a country like sweden, which has reached a recycling rate of 50 percent and almost zero in landfills. for the first time, targets are being set to reduce marine litter and tackle food waste. we throw away huge amounts of food in the eu - an estimated 89 million tonnes a year. now we are raising the ambition so that this waste is used instead of going directly from the field to the garbage heap. finally, the commission has this is smart economics. in the old farming society, nothing was thrown away and it's an economic madness that year after year we create products with built-in aging, that huge amounts of plastic end up in the ocean and that good food is thrown away. no more toiling and throwing away, let's move forward to a future where waste is our best friend!
madam president, i would like to thank you. kim wall from sweden, daphne caruana galizia from malta: two courageous investigative journalists who searched for the truth and paid with their lives. the threat and hatred of women in the media sector is a crucial issue that concerns the quality of our democracy. the sexual harassment and the sexist comments in a tough industry like the media have always existed, but have intensified in recent years due to the presence of the internet. the european parliament is united in its call for these phenomena to be combated in order to protect our democracy and to create the conditions for everyone to have an impact on the influential media sector that affects people's daily lives. another important issue is that of working conditions and gender equality. there must be a way to have a family as a journalist. the harsh working conditions are a threat to human health and gender equality and are a barrier, especially for women in the industry, who often hit the glass ceiling. and men lose the ability to be close to their children in a natural way. we've got to stop selling things using women's bodies. selling stuff with a girl, that's the way it is. we can do much better.
the european commission's progress report on the western balkans is an opportunity to send a clear message and to continue to work on the integration of this region, even though the financial and political support so far has not been sufficient. the ipa money of 42 euros per capita in bosnia and herzegovina per year is less than what we have here for coffee in this parliament. all these countries have the will to be and become members of the european union, but this will should not be taken for granted. europe needs these countries and these countries need europe. these countries still show that we are a club of choice, and the western balkans need europe to strengthen security, expand its market and create lasting peace in a turbulent region. so these countries should not be ranked in groups a, b, c, but kept in one package where they are strongly interconnected. every mistake we make will be exploited by other countries. if we don't do the right thing, russia, turkey, saudi arabia will take advantage of any mistake and punish us for it.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you, president macron! your greatest asset is that you're a good speaker. you're a good rhetorician. i'm still fascinated by the campaign where you basically promised everything to everyone. you promised to unite the left with the right, you promised in practice "follow me into the light, where it's warm and beautiful". then you faced reality after you were elected and have now lost a lot of support in france. you have a vision. i have a vision. but my vision is not for brussels and the eu to take over my homeland. my vision is not that we should sit here and decide on specific conditions that we can better solve in my home country. but my belief in my own country does not mean that i do not believe in europe. i believe in a europe where we are friends with our neighbours, where we have intergovernmental trade agreements, a different system from what we have today. that doesn't make me a worse person, mr. macron, than you are.
mr president, thank you, president macron, for having brought back hope for the future, hope for the union, to citizens all over our member states. in the last eurobarometer, last year, citizens pointed out that they want europe to deliver on climate change, on combating terrorism, and on migration. we are delivering on everything except asylum at this moment. now we need to change that. i am the rapporteur for the reform of the dublin regulation, and i count on your support on moving from the dublin regulation as we know it to an instrument worthy of the european union in the 21st century, based on fair sharing between member states, based on solidarity and based on a modern mechanism that is up and running in days of low influx and high influx – an automaticity that is necessary. if we deliver on this, we can meet citizens in the upcoming elections in 2019 and be strong together. i still believe that it is possible – and i count on you, mr president – because i still believe that we, in this union, have our greatest victories ahead of us, and not behind us. but we need you for that. you will be crucial in that development.
mr president, mr president of the republic, i would first like to pay tribute to france, which plays a key role in the fight against terrorism and human trafficking in the sahel. i've just returned from niger, i'm a witness. thank you, france, for protecting us. i also recognize the key role played by france in the peace process in europe. we must continue to respect it, but we must also have the citizens on our side, who find it difficult to understand why the reconciliation between france and germany cannot be celebrated today in a cheaper, more accessible way. mr president, i do not expect an answer today, but simply an opening-up, listening to the voices that are rising from all over europe and asking us why so much waste and not a more efficient, more coherent europe that preserves our planet, faithful to the paris agreements. we, the representatives of the european people, regularly and consistently vote by a large majority, across political groups and nationalities, for a single seat in the european parliament. we are confident that a courageous leader like you will not close the doors to dialogue, so let's engage in it without taboos, without reservations. let us not let the europeans turn against us, let us not leave them on the side of the road as we build their future together.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the vote on the burden-sharing of eu climate policy is one of the most important climate votes of this term, but it is also perhaps the biggest and clearest example of the swedish government's capital failure in both europe and climate policy. this decision obliges sweden to take on the primary responsibility for reducing carbon dioxide emissions. but because this is a zero-sum game, it means that poland hardly needs to reduce emissions at all and bulgaria does not need to reduce emissions at all. sweden should have high ambitions in the field of climate, and we should be happy to set an example. but we must never allow our high commitments to lead to others getting away with it and that is exactly what this decision will lead to. this is where the swedish government has fundamentally failed. it is not just sweden that is affected, but above all the climate. climate change is so serious and so urgent that we cannot afford to do anything but what is most cost-effective - and that is not to let those who are already doing a lot do even more, but to make sure that those who have done little do a lot more.
mr president, according to media monitoring projects for 2015, women are the focus of only 10% of news stories and comprise just 20% of experts or spokespeople interviewed. and 4% of news stories are deemed to challenge gender stereotypes. the problem with this sad statistic is that what we see on screen is a reflection of what is off screen. since i have a wife and a daughter, i will not stop stressing this and repeating what we have said too many times, namely that we need to improve this situation. i will not stop saying that until my wife and my daughter have the same legitimate right to be represented in the media as myself and my son.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, i welcome this opportunity to join you today to discuss again the un global compacts. in our globalised world, human mobility can only be addressed effectively by the international community as a whole. it is – and we all recognise it – a global phenomenon that requires global solutions. no country can manage this alone, but together we can set up a humane, dignified and secure mechanism for governing human mobility. over the past years, the european union has built a comprehensive approach to addressing migration and forced displacement. in the face of the worst refugee crisis since the second world war, we are the world’s first responder, granting asylum to persons in need of protection and offering safe and legal pathways through resettlement. in the year 2016, member states granted asylum to over 720 000 persons, and in the year 2017, 382 000. in the context of our partnership with africa and with the help of the international organisation for migration (iom), we are funding five transit countries where migrants receive assistance, medical care and psychological support. in libya, over 33 000 people have benefited from our support in detention centres at disembarkation points or in their host communities. through the new joint task force that the european union has set up with the african union and the united nations, an additional 15 000 migrants stranded in libya have been assisted in the voluntary returning to their homes, where they receive re-integration support. 1300 persons in need of international protection have been evacuated from libya in view of future resettlement. the commission has also launched a new resettlement scheme with at least 50 000 additional places for refugees from africa, the middle east and turkey by the end of 2019, and set aside 500 million to support member states’ resettlement efforts. all this was possible thanks to our common work inside the european union, and to strong cooperation with our partners in our region and worldwide. our approach is based on solidarity, shared responsibility, multilateralism and engagement, and we would like these four principles to be reflected in the global compacts on refugees and migrants. the crucial point for the global compact on migrants is to strike a balance in addressing regular and irregular migration. a person should never risk their life when seeking a better future abroad. dangerous and irregular travellers must be differentiated, whilst also opening regular channels for human mobility. as you are aware, we are working very closely with our member states to develop targeted pilot projects on legal migration with certain third countries, the priority currently being african countries. at the same time, the global compact should promote effective return policies. in this respect, we have managed to engage with a few countries of origin in asia and africa. as for the compact on refugees, it is an opportunity to modernise refugee responses by going beyond traditional humanitarian intervention and focusing on development. this is in line with the european union’s approach to forced displacement, and it also meets the expectations of host countries and eases the pressure on them. i believe that the global compacts present a unique opportunity to share the lessons we have learned and the partnerships we have built, as well as to listen to the needs and priorities of others. comme l’a rappelé le président de la république française, emmanuel macron, ce matin, nous avons besoin de plus de solidarité interne et externe pour affronter les défis migratoires. le pacte mondial pour des migrations sûres, ordonnées et régulières doit permettre de renforcer la solidarité entre l’union européenne et les pays tiers pour une gestion responsable des flux migratoires. ce pacte permettra de parvenir à une compréhension commune des défis migratoires auxquels est confronté chaque pays dans le monde et fournira une boîte à outils commune pour y répondre. the two global compacts together present international cooperation frameworks that will guide our work over the next decades. they will serve as a toolbox to address the various situations which may arise in the future. they will serve as a platform to build new partnerships and to forge new alliances. so it is clearly in the european interest to negotiate two strong and ambitious compacts, and to do it together as a union. the future compacts are first and foremost about people, and they must be shaped not only by our interests but by our values. they must be shaped by a vision grounded on human rights, responsibility and mutual solidarity. a vision where the most vulnerable ones, are protected. a vision in which there is no place for traffickers, smugglers and criminal organisations. a vision where irregular migration is reduced, and instead we have the courage to invest in more regular and safe channels for migrants. we have now reached a defining moment in the process. we are half-way through the negotiations and formal consultations on both compacts. thanks to the european union’s leadership and strong engagement, the current revised drafts of both compacts largely reflect eu legislation and policies. we see a good chance to develop a common understanding on how to humanely and efficiently manage human mobility. the next months are crunch time to find the middle ground between the diverging views, different national migration realities and priorities. we will continue our engagement toward reaching an agreement on the global compact on migration, to be politically endorsed at the intergovernmental conference in morocco in december as well as on the global compact on refugees to be adopted under the auspices of the united nations general assembly later this year. with the withdrawal of the united states from the global compact on migration back in december 2017, the compacts need more than ever a strong and united europe that speaks with one voice during these negotiations. in that light, i regret that one of our member states has taken the position on the global compact on migration that is not in line with the position of the 27 other member states. here, our common work and your contribution as the european parliament will be essential. this is a test of humanity. but let me add that we should also be very pragmatic in how we approach this discussion. two good global compacts will help us manage human mobility in a much more orderly and effective way. let’s not turn this into an ideological debate. let us shape these two compacts together as a union and for all europeans.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i welcome the un global compact on migration and refugees. global challenges need global solutions and the eu as a global actor must do more to address the root causes of migration, from conflict to poverty and climate change. it is time to have a global governance of flows, sharing responsibility for orderly and safe migration. the eu must take the lead to move from illegal to legal migration, combat smuggling of migrants, implementing resettlement and voluntary returns, and supporting countries of origin. it is also time to put humanity back at the centre of our debates on migration and change the narrative. for many people, migration means slavery. i am just back from niger and agadez, the trafficking hub to europe via the mediterranean. we met women, children and young men coming back from libya. their stories are heart—breaking. trafficking in human beings goes hand-in-hand with trafficking of drugs and weapons. people die in the desert in their thousands of hunger and heat, abandoned by traffickers. libya is hell on earth. migrants suffer ransom, forced labour, sexual abuse, torture. we have a responsibility to help people trapped in detention camps get out of there back via niger. the eu operation in niger is effective, but more resources are urgently needed for resettlement with unhcr and repatriation of returnees from libya by oim to home countries in africa, and for reintegration projects in their local communities. key are the projects for reconversion of traffickers into legal work, like handwork and building work. it is happening. let’s do more: fewer traffickers in agadez, niger, means fewer irregular migrants to europe, but also fewer deaths in the mediterranean, in the desert and less labouring in libya and i finish by saying that the global compact should also focus on children and promote gender equality in the world, with zero tolerance for violence against women and children. with the ppe, we call on the member states to be united in negotiations on the global compact and focus on common solutions.
for the efdd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. there are 65 million refugees in the world. if i could, i would help them all, but i realize that's not possible. i and my country feel a desire to help as many as possible who are truly refugees. at the same time, it must be recognized that our resources are also limited. we must realize that we cannot open our doors wide and allow the country to be filled by an overwhelming number of economic migrants who want to enjoy our welfare at a high economic and, above all, social cost. there is a shortage of housing and jobs and the consequences are a failure of assimilation where new exclusion areas are growing. it is more reasonable, for example, to help one million refugees on the spot rather than ten thousand in sweden at about the same cost. unhcr is in great need of help to manage the situation in the refugee camps it manages. it is about providing these refugees with clean water, food and a decent home, providing schools for their children and creating a belief in the future and a hope of returning to their home countries. this is where i think we should put our resources and help as many people as possible. i support an intergovernmental approach where sovereign nations voluntarily agree with the un to help refugees without eu interference.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to highlight some essential principles and principles for the eu's position in the negotiations on these global compacts. first of all, i would say that the eu must take responsibility for making the negotiations more equal. the south, the global south, must play a stronger role. in fact, these are the countries most affected. we also need to raise the broader perspective. this means that migration cannot be seen as a problem, let alone discussed in terms of security threats or other totally irresponsible terms that we often hear here. migration has always existed. it is something fundamentally positive and it is something we should cherish. we must also ensure that we create policies that safeguard and enhance people's right to mobility globally. what is a problem is the exploitation of migrants. in the workplace, sexually, in other ways. i must also say something about the eu's economic and foreign policy and the arms trade of certain member states, which are actually responsible for creating many of the situations we see and which are driving people to flee and to migrate. it is naive and perhaps irresponsible - or, some might say, hypocritical - to think that we should continue with this policy and at the same time say that we want to reduce migration. no, we need debt cancellation, we need development, we need economic partnerships that are equal and we need to stop the militarisation of africa and the middle east in particular. furthermore, if we're going to have a positive change here, we have to do the right thing at the domestic level. we need a humane refugee policy and we need to make sure that we stand up for those who stand up in solidarity with refugees. we need a new policy in the eu. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
(blue card) no, i don't think we have a working system. like i said, i do not think we have a good migration policy or a sufficiently humane refugee policy. europe can take a much greater responsibility for the refugee situation in the world and we must organize and manage our reception of refugees accordingly. but we also need to make sure that we develop a global policy that does not, as today, increase the gaps between countries and between different parts of the world. it's our responsibility too. it means a different trade policy, a different economic policy, it means that poverty reduction must be on the list and it also means that we must stop exporting arms.
mr president, i would like to thank you. much of the resolution shows the direction the eu must take. in particular, the formulations that we must ensure the human rights of refugees and migrants and that the vulnerability that arises from the circumstances of the country of origin when you migrate and how you are received is the result of political choices. there are no weak people, only weak structures. we see this in migration, both within europe and outside europe. so we must open the eu's borders. we need to increase the number of quota refugees. we need to remove barriers to family reunification. we also need to grant amnesty to asylum seekers who have waited a long time and we need to ensure the rights and safety of the undocumented. the eu's migration policy must be firmly based on the rule of law and respect for human rights, and this will never be negotiable.
madam president, i think there is nothing more important for european security than to understand the nature of the russia of today. it is not the russia of its citizens; it is the russia of the putin regime: always fearing its citizens and fearing democracy. that’s why it wants to undermine democracy and the rule of law wherever it exists, in neighbouring countries, in europe and at home. and it has to demonstrate the brutal willingness to use force. that explains salisbury, syria, georgia, ukraine, the murder of russian citizens abroad and in russia and the ongoing warfare in ukraine, disinformation and destabilisation. all these are signs of a regime that is afraid and needs to use covert operations, needs to use criminal activities. i think our response must be: ‘we know what you’re doing, we know who is doing it and we will punish criminal activities. we will sanction the policies that are undermining democracy, and we will highlight when you are acting against us. we are strong and you are weak’.
madam president, more than a month has passed since poisonous nerve agents were used against sergei skripal and his daughter in salisbury in the uk. while many of us commend the clear line that western governments have taken against russia, it is important to keep up the political and diplomatic pressure. in order to make the kremlin change its unacceptable behaviour we must look at ways of challenging the corrupt system that underpins the regime. there are tools. these include the possibility of strengthening sanctions and asset freezes for russian officials that feed the regime with money. europe could also ensure that oil and gas prices stay low by increasing financial support for fracking and climate-friendly energy. there is no reason for failing to act with resolve against putin and his companions. by clamping down on the ongoing money laundering of russian oligarchs, the foundation of the putin apparatus will be affected. this would clearly show and convince the kremlin that europe has red lines that must not be challenged.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are discussing turkey again, and i do not know for what order. i cannot recall a single time during the mandate when we did so because something positive had happened. we have spoken mostly about human rights violations and today about the capture of two greek soldiers who had accidentally crossed into turkish territory. it's not the first time this has happened. in the forest area near kastanies on the border between turkey and greece, the border has been crossed by mistake on several occasions in the past. but the difference this time is that in the past when it was crossed, the issue was resolved directly at the local level. it is therefore incomprehensible why turkey is currently holding the two greek soldiers and why it is refusing to send them home, as greece has requested. what's different this time? i assume that this is partly due to the long-standing state of emergency in the country, which has put all previous formal and informal rules out of play and which it is difficult for us outsiders to accept to continue so long after the coup attempt, and partly because it is a form of show of force in the increasingly tough dialogue between the eu and turkey and turkey and greece. in the case of the two prisoners, there are a number of questions to be clarified. it is not just the risk of humiliating treatment, which many turkish prisoners face in turkish prisons. it is also a matter of prisoners' rights, which must always be respected under international law. this also applies to their right to be informed of the crimes of which they are accused. but we must also strive to avoid similar situations in the future. as both countries are nato countries, it would not be entirely wrong to ask the secretary-general of nato to mediate between greece and turkey, both to facilitate the swift release of the two greek soldiers and to promote the frosty relationship between the two neighbouring countries. last but not least, we also call on the turkish authorities to release the prisoners without delay and to allow them to return to greece.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the two greek soldiers who were captured after inadvertently crossing the border into turkey are still being held in turkey after a month, which is totally unacceptable. similar cases of inadvertent border crossings like these two soldiers, who were simply out in bad weather, have been easily resolved in the past. the fact that turkey has now chosen to detain these two soldiers without informing them of the grounds for their arrest is yet another example of turkey's authoritarian and anti-democratic development, which means that we must immediately remove them from the list of candidate countries for eu membership. this must be done immediately, because this is a provocation and a very worrying one. the rule of law and human rights have been challenged. finally, it clearly shows that it no longer qualifies as a candidate country. enough with the provocations, both against our member states, greece, and the provocations against cyprus. it is time for the eu to step down and say enough is enough and now turkey must come to its senses.
madam president, i would like to thank you. through my green colleagues alexander langer and the founder of the green party, per gahrton, the greens were pushing for the eu to focus on civil conflict resolution. it also became part of european foreign policy. we have so far financed peace-building operations through a special instrument for peace and stability, an instrument to which we greens have actively contributed. but now, many in this house want to get rid of that money pot after 2020. during the year, the peace facility was extended to cover certain military purposes after both the conservatives and the social democrats pushed for it to be used for military capacity building in third countries. it is not only politically unwise, it is also not in accordance with the rules. we all know that the treaty does not allow the eu budget to be used for military expenditure. we also know that the legal basis of the peace instrument does not allow it to be used to finance military projects. i therefore strongly urge parliament to return the peace instrument to its intended purpose in the next long-term budget: civil conflict resolution and peacebuilding.
mr president, i would like to thank you. today we finally have the circular economy package. it is a kind of framework for increasing sustainability, covering reuse, recycling and repair of products. my focus has been primarily on the issue that i've been pursuing for 10 years: food waste. i've been working to get us, for the first time, a new definition of food waste and a common method to measure its reduction. in line with the un sustainable development goals, the eu aims to halve its food waste by 2030 compared to 2014. member states are encouraged to exchange best practices and to develop specific incentive programmes to reduce food waste. i've also been pushing to simplify the rules for businesses so we donate the food we don't eat to charity. in sweden, on average, one out of every four food boxes we take home is thrown away. it is economically, ethically and environmentally unacceptable. i am glad that my proposal that member states should work to raise awareness of the difference between the 'best before' and the 'use by' date has been taken on board. we need to change our lifestyle and our attitude toward food. time to go from... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would like to thank you. the truth is that we eu citizens are all left completely unprotected in the cold as the scandalous revelations about facebook and cambridge analytica reveal the truth - the reality - of what is happening. the scandal that has affected millions of facebook users constitutes a crime against our free, open and democratic societies and is a fundamental violation of every person's right to privacy. i demand that facebook and other social media take responsibility for how our personal data is used for political purposes. this has become extremely topical with the scandals surrounding russian interference in the us elections. it should now be self-evident that each company is complying with the provisions of the data protection regulation. ordinary decency requires that mark zuckerberg accept the speaker's invitation to come here to parliament to explain himself. we should have that answer immediately, because anything else is totally unacceptable.
madam president, great commercial power must come with great responsibility, since platforms like facebook deal with people, not goods. in europe we stand up for the highest standards of civil liberties. access to and use of personal data must be transparent and follow our privacy rules. red lines are crossed when it affects our democracy, influencing elections and spreading fake news. the time has come for platforms to take responsibility for the content published by users – in particular concerning children, privacy and safety. as the facebook and google child summit is under way right now, as a co—chair of the intergroup on children’s rights, i reiterate my call to the ict community to invest more in finding innovative solutions to protect children online. i welcome the new measures on parental control but, to be effective, age verification tools must be put in place. much is done to combat child sexual abuse online, but much more needs to be done. an entire generation of young people is affected by hate speech and cyber bullying. a girl victim of revenge pornography or sex extortion must be able to have her pictures taken down. these crimes can lead children to commit self-harm and suicide. much more also needs to be done urgently to prevent young people from being radicalised and recruited by terrorists on social media. i call on platforms to strengthen the reporting of abuse, speed up the removal of illegal content and increase cooperation with law enforcement authorities. i support president tajani’s call to mark zuckerberg for a hearing with parliament to tell us what facebook is up to. (applause)
member of the commission. – mr president, i am really glad to be here with you today because it allows me once again to underline the importance i attach to this proposal. dieselgate opened our eyes and showed the need for far-reaching reforms. the emis committee and the commission’s own investigations revealed the shortcomings of the present system. what we have discovered is not only about volkswagen. the whole industry operated in a grey zone. almost all companies bent the rules, some even cheated and our type—approval authorities took their enforcement responsibilities very lightly. we are faced with a systemic failure of the type—approval system in europe. that needs to change radically and it needs to change urgently. enforcement of the type—approval framework is the responsibility of the member states, as all of us know, but the last two years have shown that only a few of them have taken serious action against emission-cheating. no car manufacturer has been fined for cheating so far, and only a few member states have issued mandatory calls for non—compliant cars. this is one of the reasons i have consistently called for a reshuffle of the whole approval system, more checks on the ground and more eu governance. the proposals that you will vote on tomorrow are a key instrument to achieve this. i have also always supported the parliament’s request for compensation for consumers. the situation in the eu is wrong when companies refuse to compensate consumers for misleading information on environmental performance. let me say at this point that last week the commission adopted the new deal for consumers initiative. it proposes legal instruments on representative actions and possibilities for consumer redress. at the last trialogue in december, as part of our discussion on penalties, parliament asked the commission to make a declaration referring to the adoption of the new deal for consumers package to better protect consumers and ensure a more effective consumer redress mechanism. i have the pleasure of confirming today that the text of this declaration, together with the other declarations, is being transmitted to parliament’s services. if such rules had been in place when the dieselgate scandal broke out, consumer organisations and independent public bodies could have launched representative actions and sought redress for the consumers affected. with this proposal, once adopted, victims of unfair commercial practices will be in a position to obtain remedies collectively. i very much welcome the agreement between parliament and the council. i am looking forward to having a final deal tomorrow. with this vote tomorrow, you will send a strong and clear message to the players in this sector. i am pleased that the final outcome upheld most of the proposals from the commission and improved some of them. i am especially happy that the main pillars of our commission’s proposals were confirmed. they are reinforcing the independence and quality of approvals that allow a car to be placed on the market, introducing an effective market surveillance system to ensure that cars placed on the market comply with eu rules, not only at the time of approval, but also when they circulate on our roads, and reinforcing the whole system with greater european oversight to ensure a coherent implementation throughout europe. those three points are really crucial to ensure that everyone involved complies fully with the rules and applies the requirements in a harmonised way. i commend the hard work of the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs. this was a huge effort from your side and i know it has not been an easy process. it has not been for us either. the car sector is crucial for meeting our eu climate targets so we also need to improve the measurement of real-life co2 emissions as soon as possible. we will come back to that in the discussion on the co2 package that we proposed last november. but overall this is a good deal that significantly improves the present situation. i am sure that with the type—approval package, as it is finalised tomorrow, this will be a big step forward towards safer and cleaner cars in europe. it will also help to rebuild the trust of citizens in their authorities. i very much trust that you will finalise it tomorrow. commission statement(in writing) the link between the different eu and national databases (article 9a) the commission shares the views of the legislator that interconnection between the different databases used for type-approval and market surveillance should be ensured. as some databases are managed individually by member states, successful interconnection will depend on the full cooperation of member states. the new deal for consumers the commission is concerned by mass harm situations affecting interests of consumers, as illustrated by the revelations in september 2015 about car manufacturers circumventing emissions standards for certain air pollutants, and sees the limits of existing national procedural means to secure appropriate consumer redress in such situations. the commission has adopted a proposal on representative actions for the protection of the collective interests of consumers [com(2018)184] as part of the new deal for consumers package on 11 april 2018, with the aim to empower qualified entities to launch representative actions on behalf of consumers and to introduce stronger sanctioning powers for member states' consumer authorities. with this proposal, once adopted, victims of unfair commercial practices, such as misleading advertising by car manufacturers not in compliance with the union regulatory framework for type approval of vehicles or environmental legislation, will be in a position to obtain remedies collectively. the obligatory market checks on the market by the commission (article 9) the commission welcomes that the markets checks to be carried out by the commission were confirmed by the legislator. it is now essential that the legislator also ensures that this activity is properly financed in particular in the context of the commission proposal for the next multiannual financial framework. the status quo for end of series (article 47) the commission regrets that for end-of series, instead of an eu procedure, the future legislation will maintain the status quo of a national procedure which is burdensome for importers, vehicles manufacturers, national and regional authorities. the current procedure also has no value added for safety and environment and creates problems for the internal market of used vehicles. the rules on the committee work for committee rules; the commission underlines that it is contrary to the letter and to the spirit of regulation 182/2011 (oj l 55 of 28.2.2011, p. 13) to invoke article 5§4, subparagraph 2, point b) in a systematic manner. recourse to this provision must respond to a specific need to depart from the rule of principle which is that the commission may adopt a draft implementing act when no opinion is delivered. given that it is an exception to the general rule established in article 5§4 recourse to subparagraph 2, point b), cannot be simply seen as a "discretionary power" of the legislator, but must be interpreted in a restrictive manner and thus must be justified. the deletion of the delegation to the commission to regulate co2 in-use testing defeat device (article 91) the commission regrets that the initial commission proposal to regulate in-service-conformity of co2 emissions through implementing legislation was not supported by the co-legislators. this will further delay the set-up of an in-service-conformity assessment procedure which is a core element for ensuring that the co2 emission and fuel consumption values attributed to individual vehicles are reliable. the commission has included a similar mandate in its proposal for new light duty vehicle co2 emission standards adopted on 8 november 2017 and calls on the co-legislators to support it.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the car industry is not doing well in europe at the moment. the fraud of diesel emissions, dieselgate, whereby authorities and consumers were deliberately deceived to the detriment of the environment and human health, has cost a lot in confidence with not very much in europe in terms of money for industry, and that is a problem in itself. it was clear when we were working on this legislation that there are many people who are very disappointed in the automotive industry. that is why many people are now calling for new, stricter requirements, stricter regulations, lower emissions in different types of legislation. but it is not hard new demands that we really need. what we need is to check that the demands we have already made are being met. we can have any number of demands, but if there's no one to check, we don't know if people will live up to them. that is why this legislation is so important and so good, because here we get control, transparency and tangible penalties. as a member of the committee on the environment and as responsible for the matter, i am really proud of the work we have done, especially that we have secured funding for the control, because without money there is rarely anything. that is why i think it is important that we vote for this tomorrow, so that we do not just pass new laws on new rules and new requirements, but that we ensure that the requirements we set are also something that manufacturers are forced to live up to.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, allow me to thank the rapporteur, mr rangel, and the other shadow rapporteurs for the excellent report and good cooperation. the report contains many good ideas that i fully support, for example the creation of a european week that will inform the national parliaments of what we are doing here, which is necessary. however, on the reform of the early warning system, i disagree. many tend to believe that extending the period of eight weeks for the national parliaments will get them more involved. i believe the contrary actually, because first, if we want really to extend it then we have to change the treaty, and we cannot do that. secondly, i don’t believe that the national parliament will jump in the air in excitement just because they have a couple more days. thirdly, if you want technically to adopt it, it has to be said that we do sometimes do it. and, finally and most importantly, we are often criticised for being too bureaucratic, that the legislation takes too long and extending it even more is not a good idea. i know that national parliaments sometimes blame everything on the eu, and that problem would not be solved by inventing new tools and instruments. i think that the problem should be solved: national parliaments should have the role as a scrutiniser of the government and of ensuring what their governments do in the eu properly. that is the way to solve the problem and i that’s what i propose.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. how is it that the yellow card in the subsidiarity check has only been triggered three times? the eu has serious problems with over-centralisation and that is why this procedure was set up to allow national parliaments to protest if the european commission makes proposals that go a little too far. but only half of the parliaments are even involved in this procedure, and only a few parliaments, including the swedish parliament, really take it seriously. that is because there is too little time, and also because the threshold for the number of parliaments that need to protest and raise a warning finger is far too high. this report contains many excellent proposals, most of which can already be implemented under the present treaty. it should be adopted and the liberal proposal rejected.
blue-card question. – i agree with a lot of what you said. but just the question, can we really expect the parliamentary majority of national parliaments with a parliamentary system to hold its own government to account when it agrees to things in political compromises and in the council that perhaps it shouldn’t?
rapporteur. – madam president, i had the honour of working on the implementation report on the european protection order directive, which, if it works, can save the lives of victims of gender-based violence and other forms of interpersonal violence. it is one of those eu initiatives that can save tens of thousands of lives and we need to save them today, in europe. one in three women has experienced physical or sexual violence since the age of 15. every second woman has been a victim of sexual harassment. women and girls living with disabilities in europe are two to five times more likely to be victims of violence than non-disabled women. around 20% of european children are victims of sexual violence, most of which is committed by someone very close to them. one in five women has experienced stalking. one in four roma people are victims of hate—motivated harassment and crimes. thousands of lgbti people are attacked or threatened with violence. there are tens of thousands of people who need protection. however, there have only been seven european protection orders (epos) issued in the whole of europe so far. for me, as a feminist, it is very frustrating to see that there is a tool that could be used but is not. for me, it clearly shows that, so far, neither the commission nor the member states have taken their responsibilities very seriously. public servants who come into contact with victims do not know about this international protection instrument. victim protection organisations do not know about this instrument. the victims themselves have hardly ever heard of the opportunity that they have to take their already existing national protection orders with them abroad when they want to travel or move to another eu country. this directive came into force in 2011. member states had four years to implement it into their national laws by 11 january 2015. how many years do we have to wait until this directive is properly implemented and provides protection for those who need it? this shameful situation has to change. therefore, in our draft report we formulated several pages of demands, some of which are the following: we call on the commission and the member states to make sure that information about epos really reaches the victims, the ngos and the authorities that are working with these issues; we call for mandatory training of professionals likely to come in contact with victims;we call on member states to automatically inform persons who get a national protection order about the epo and making the application process free of charge, shorter and easier for victims; we call for special measures to be implemented by the member states for victims in vulnerable situations or victims with specific needs, such as children; we call for free legal aid, translation and interpretation into a language understood by the victim;we call for a decision on the epo request to be delivered within a maximum of two weeks; given the increasing exposure of children and teenagers to violence online, we call on member states to include education on gender equality and non—violence in the school curriculum; since the eu has focused its security agenda purely on its external aspect, we call on the commission and the council to place the issue of interpersonal security on the eu security agenda. i would like to ask all colleagues to help us in our fight and to help to spread the word about this protection instrument so that everybody can exercise their right to live free from violence and the fear of it in our europe. i would like to thank my co-rapporteur, teresa jiménez-becerril barrio, and all the shadows and all the colleagues who tabled amendments to this report, which make it strong. i hope for a successful voting outcome today, of course, and wish us all good luck. this is not acceptable.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. first of all, i would like to thank everyone involved for the good cooperation on this very important issue. we need to be clear. in practice, protection orders are used to protect women who are victims of intimate partner violence, domestic violence, where harassment, stalking or sexual assault are common. violence against women is a brutal form of discrimination and a violation of human rights. in the eu, gender-based violence is a growing problem. one in three women in the eu has been the victim of physical or sexual violence. it is not only harmful to the women who are victims of violence, but to society as a whole. it is therefore important that the european protection order works, that victims of crime who have been granted protected identity, restraining order or other measures are informed of its existence and are made aware of their rights and opportunities. it is equally important that the designated authorities of the member states are given knowledge of the implementation process. i am very positive that the victims of crime who are vulnerable to trafficking in human beings are also given special attention, as they are a very vulnerable group in need of increased protection. the istanbul convention provides for specific measures to protect the rights of victims of crime. full implementation of the istanbul convention will strengthen the protection of those who are vulnerable. it is therefore very important that all eu member states immediately support the istanbul convention. it would be particularly desirable for the bulgarian presidency to take the lead and show the other countries that have not yet ratified the istanbul convention how important it is.
member of the commission. – madam president, first i want to thank the house for this exchange of views. it is an extremely important issue and i thank the members for all of their comments. my first point is that the victims of violence and harassment are particularly exposed to secondary victimisation. i agree that more needs to be done to ensure that victims, victims’ organisations and police are fully aware of the european protection order (epo). because there is a very strong link between the correct application of the victims’ rights directive and the correct functioning of the epo. we have to stay on course and we must use all means available to ensure the proper implementation of the eu legislation in this field. i particularly want to thank this parliament for its steady support in the process of the eu’s accession to the istanbul convention. i can assure you that we will continue our efforts on a few things: first, awareness-raising among practitioners and then the proper information to victims. i agree with you that the number of epos issued – seven – is really very few.
rapporteur. – madam president, i just wanted to add that i think the eu and the member states have trivialised the fact of violation of women across europe, and this is why i strongly advance and push for the fact that in the former eu security agenda there was a sentence on violence against women – for this mandate there was not. and i strongly recommend that it should be put in again. because if we want to eradicate violence against women using the tool proposed – and of course the istanbul convention is one tool, the epo is another tool – but i also strongly believe that to have it in our security agenda shows that we really take it seriously, and so much has to be done. the #metoo movement also showed us the trivialisation of sexual harassment and violence towards women. and so many women on a daily basis feel fear and threatened.
mr president, it is interesting, but i think we that we should stay focused on the resolution on the philippines. i know that we have another picture of the world, but the human rights situation in the philippines is extremely alarming at the moment and has been so for quite a while. we are deeply concerned about the deputy secretary-general of the party of european socialists (pes), giacomo filibeck, who was arrested, along with many others, and not allowed to enter the country. so it is also shocking that human rights defenders, indigenous leaders, un officials, and even national government officials, such as senator de lima, are being targeted by the duterte government. i strongly condemn the violent language also used by president duterte about women. it seems that his war on drugs has also turned into a war against women. we cannot, i think, wait any longer. it is our obligation to take stronger action than before, even if this meant that we would have to reconsider gsp+ privileges.
mr president, at huge risk of being judged anti-semitic, i, as a roma and jewish person, dare to strongly criticise the israeli government. israel has to end the blockade and the closure of the gaza strip. the people living there are living without access to such basic needs as food, water, electricity and education. recently we, as eu officials, went to israel. we were not allowed to enter gaza. we were in the west bank, and what we did see there was an apartheid state system, with great humiliation as regards their basic human rights. there are currently 356 palestinian children – children – in israeli prisons. now is the time for the eu to speed up the two-state solution. it is the only way to secure a peaceful, fair future for both of them, and i mean it. after being there and talking to israeli and palestinian officials, now is the time.
madam president, when we talk about shrinking space for civil society in this parliament we usually talk about countries outside of the european union, but we do have a shrinking space even inside the union. for example in hungary the law is about to be voted that requires every organisation that ‘supports immigration’ to obtain national security clearance. in poland restrictions have already been passed on the right to the civil society organisations to demonstrate during the december un climate change talks in qatar. so yes, we do need the instrument even here in the eu and i do support it strongly.
mr president, in politics it’s too common that people speak faster than they think. on behalf of the epp group, i would therefore urge us not to take this debate with a commission statement in this plenary session. we would be happy to debate this, of course – not that i necessarily think that we have very differing views on trump’s illegal and protectionist steel tariffs – but it was announced yesterday, and we don’t even know the details of what was announced. therefore, i think it’s a good thing to actually read and reflect before we speak. it’s not as if it’s now or never. we have another plenary in may, which means that we will have plenty of opportunity to get into the details and be able to send a joint and strong message from this house, but not before we know what was decided and announced in washington.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? i have a different view than many here have expressed. i think the commission has set the right priorities, but too few priorities and too few priorities. too often, in choosing between two different expenditures, you have made the mistake of choosing both. that would not give you the range of priorities that you have to make in every member state, in every household and in every other context. you have not adjusted your expenditure to the revenue available. it's not about small increases. for many member states, the rules of the stability pact on stable finances will be more difficult to achieve. for others, it will mean that the space for reforms in terms of better healthcare, better education, stronger defence, stronger rule of law will be hampered. finally, i would like to say something about this issue of own resources: let us remember that these are the resources of the citizens, the money of the citizens. we now need a budgetary reform that prioritises all the new challenges that modern europe must be able to face.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i just want to say that i'm appalled, disgusted and angry. how can something like this happen in the eu? we already know, and research has clearly shown, that people in a very vulnerable situation sometimes can't put it into words. it's called frozen fright, and it's a survival mechanism that causes you to become paralyzed. i'm sure that's what happened when that nasty wolf pack raped that 18-year-old woman. such cases of paralysis must be taken into account in a legal assessment. anything else is unthinkable. it is very important that victims of crime feel that they can trust the courts and the justice system, that their experiences of what they have been subjected to are taken seriously. unfortunately, rape victims are rare. in the eu, gender-based violence is a very big problem. one in three women in the eu has been a victim of physical or sexual violence. violence against women is a brutal form of discrimination and a violation of human rights. it is not only harmful to the women who are exposed and affected, but to society as a whole - the eu as a whole. therefore, the matter must be taken very seriously. all men -- you men in this room and you other men listening -- we need to take responsibility, and we need to start working on the male role. it should be a given for all, both women and men, that sex is based on consent. anything less than a "yes" is a "no" and anything less is illegal. it's gonna be in the back of every one of us. that's why i'm especially proud that my home country, sweden, is now going to adopt a stronger sexual offense law, a consent law. this should be a matter of course in all eu member states. i now make a serious appeal to the governments of all the member states. the protection of victims of rape and sexual violence must be increased. we cannot accept anything else under any circumstances. i therefore reiterate that all eu member states must fully implement and support the istanbul convention. it would be particularly desirable for the bulgarian presidency to take the lead and show the other countries which have not yet ratified the istanbul convention how important it is. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the answer ('blue card'). training courses are already available for those who will be working on this issue, such as courts, police and social workers, but this new consent legislation will make it even clearer. it is extremely important that politicians also receive this information and knowledge. it should be a matter of course for everyone in europe.
author. – mr president, i am proud that today we stand united across the political groups for children’s rights. a child is first a child, regardless of the migration status. migrant children are vulnerable: exposed to trafficking, abuse and exploitation during the journey and even in europe. our resolution is a call for action from the member states to do more, better and faster, to protect children on the move. they must implement the asylum rules and build capacity, providing access to health care and psychological support, in particular for girls sexually exploited; accommodation and safe areas; school, to restore a sort of normal life and avoid a lost generation; appointing a guardian to unaccompanied minors within five days; and all children from the age of six arriving in europe must be registered with fingerprints, in full respect of the un convention on the rights of the child, without using force. registration is crucial to ensure that children enter and remain in the protection system. it can help authorities find missing children. children should not be detained just because they are migrants. in case of crime, they should be treated as eu nationals. children’s dignity must be respected when doing medical examinations for age assessment. and we have a responsibility to ensure that refugee children go from fear to hope for the future. when given a real chance to integrate, they can become an asset to our societies in europe, and education is key for integration and to prevent crime and radicalisation. it should include learning about our european values and languages, and respect for women and the rule of law. we also need to tackle the root causes of migration. let’s not forget all those kids who didn’t make it to europe, in the desert, in the mediterranean. i was just in niger, in agadez, africa’s trafficking hub in the sahara desert. it was heart-breaking to meet so many children victims of violence. but these tragic stories are the same that are heard from migrant children whom i met in refugee camps in turkey, in greece, in hotspots in sicily, and even in reception centres in sweden. the eu is doing a lot in africa, but much more needs to be done, in particular for the investing in children programme. as co-chair of the intergroup on children’s rights, i want to pay tribute to all the workers for their commitment to protect children. i will continue to join forces to ensure that europe truly means safety for children.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? children have the right to a safe environment free from violence. children have the right to health care, education and free play. children have the right to feel confident about their future and to have a supportive adult who loves them, but there are many children in the eu today who do not. the most vulnerable are the unaccompanied refugee children. according to the un refugee agency unhcr, 32,039 children arrived in greece, italy, spain and bulgaria in 2017. some 46 percent of these children were unaccompanied or separated from their parents. these children live in very vulnerable conditions and more support is needed. in sweden, the environment party has given over 9,000 unaccompanied children a second chance to stay, as the long process of adjudication has meant that they have reached the age of 18 while waiting for the notification. we need to do more within the eu to meet the rights of all children. a first step is to take real responsibility for migration policy and work against trafficking. everyone must take a solidarity responsibility, and especially for children who are stuck in the system, ensure that they get the help they need.
for the verts/ale group. mr president commissioner, what is it? the issue of cosmetic testing on animals is important and very close to my heart, as it is a very clear example of how we humans continue to torture animals in a very pointless way. when i was 10 years old, i joined my first fraternity. it was an association against painful animal experimentation, animal rights, in sweden. as a child, i had a very difficult time understanding why and how innocent monkeys, rabbits, and guinea pigs could be subjected to painful cosmetic tests in order for people to put on makeup, especially when there are viable alternatives. in fact, i have just as much difficulty today, 25 years later, understanding why we do this when we have new technologies and methods to test cosmetics without the torture of animal testing. that is why i am calling, together with my colleagues here today in the european parliament, for a global ban on these painful animal tests for cosmetics. in the eu, animal testing of cosmetics has been banned since 2013, but some products from non-eu countries can still be bought here. these products may have been tested on animals, since 80 percent of the world's countries still allow this. it's time for a global ban on painful cosmetic animal testing.
mr president, the bulgarian initiative, the western balkans summit in sofia, almost failed because some member states could not accept the idea of labelling the western balkan countries as states. so, a solution has to be found to name them as countries and as partners. this just shows how difficult and sensitive this enlargement process is. the problem is that ahead of us, there are much bigger issues. money has to be invested in this project, the reasons for enlargement have to be explained to citizens, we have to shape and mould public opinion, serbia and montenegro have to finish their negotiations, macedonia and albania have to start them, kosovo has to get visa liberalisation, bosnia has to get responses to the questionnaire. if we do not put and invest everything that we have in that process, we will risk failure of the enlargement process and that would be a catastrophe, not just for the western balkans but even for the credibility of the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. 40 billion swedish crowns! that's what sweden is paying in membership fees this year. that's 5,400 swedish kronor per taxpayer and year. we pay a net 27 billion swedish kronor to the eu. now they want to increase this amount. they want to raise it by 40 percent. so that's 21 billion that they want to increase our membership fee by. this means that each taxpayer in sweden pays sek 8 200 per year. then there is the expected increase, which will be added if and when albania, macedonia, montenegro and serbia join and become net contributors. the power is constantly shifting from sweden, from stockholm, from the swedish parliament to brussels. the monetary union is to be completed, common migration and asylum, common defence, and all legislation is initiated by the commission whose officials are not democratically elected. the eu is like a train that, without brakes, is speeding along at night. even though all the lights are flashing red, you haven't learned anything. the crash is imminent.
madam president, i would like to thank you. today, on international press freedom day, it's very good that we're talking about the importance of protecting journalists, but i think unfortunately we have to do much, much more. investigative journalism is more necessary than ever in these times of populist fake news. the populist right, however, wants nothing more than to frighten the liberal press into the defensive. there we have a responsibility. no newsroom should have to stop reporting because of threats, which have already happened - not only that, but also because journalists have been murdered. there is another side to vulnerability. we're already having trouble reporting from war and disaster zones. only really big newsrooms can afford to report, because the cost of such an arrangement, for a single reporter and associated team, is simply gigantic. there is therefore a risk that a growing part of society will very soon be covered by fewer and fewer, very rich newsrooms, and thus the media coverage will be reduced even more.
for the verts/ale group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would like to begin by thanking mrs ulrike rodust for the work she and her team have done on the north sea management plan. this was difficult because the fish stocks in the commission's proposal did not in many cases conform to the classification made by ices in its advice on stocks. our eu objective is to restore and maintain our fish stocks above levels that ensure maximum sustainable yield. this is an excellent target because it would mean more fish stocks, far above current levels. our oceans are the lungs of our planet and we need to manage them for future generations. more fish in the sea also leads to more profitable fishing. it's easier to catch the fish, we spend less time and fuel, and thus we make more money. we are disappointed with the way the commission formulated its stock assessment question to the ices. the ices council allows us to fish more intensively than is stipulated in the basic regulation. the north sea plan allows this, and therefore violates the basic regulation. parliament tried for a long time to prevent the council of ministers from negotiating on this very point, in both the baltic sea plan and the north sea plan, but failed. the positive is that recreational fisheries in the north sea should be included and counted against quotas, as proposed by us greens. the problem is found in article 4 (4) of the north sea plan, and we greens have tabled an amendment to vote to delete this article. the greens cannot support a plan which allows such intensive fishing and will therefore vote against the plan if the article is not withdrawn.
the rapporteur. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: fish is one of the most traded commodities globally, and the eu is the largest and most lucrative fish market in the world. in 2016, we imported 8.8 million tonnes of fishery and aquaculture products, compared to the eu production of 6.2 million tonnes. our dependence on imports is high, as 60% of the fish we eat is caught outside union waters. the eu's high demand for fishery and aquaculture products has a clear impact on trade policy within the eu. the eu's fishing fleets are governed by a complex set of rules: the common fisheries policy and its control regulation. in addition, eu vessels must also comply with a range of other regulatory frameworks such as labour standards, training requirements, ship safety, environmental legislation, taxation rules and sanitary requirements. all this is to ensure that we as consumers can be sure of the quality of our seafood, but also that it has been caught in a way that respects our labour laws, environmental standards and other rules that are standard across the eu. but in the fish dish, there are also products of another origin, the imported products. this applies to both fresh and frozen fish, but also to processed products such as fish sticks, fish scales or imported shellfish and octopus. for many of these products, the production requirements are lower, allowing them to compete at a lower price than fish caught within the eu. we are creating an imbalance in the market which in many cases disadvantages eu-caught fish, which are being caught at higher costs to meet all the requirements and standards. a large proportion of fish imported comes from responsible fishing countries, but the industry is still being dragged down by the serious problems of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and in some cases these are products based on pure slave-based fishing. in the light of the fact that more than 30% of the world's fish stocks are overfished and almost 60% are fished at the sustainable limit, it is reasonable to review the requirements we have to place on fish that will gain access to the eu market through importation. this report has examined the requirements imposed on imports today and has made proposals to fill the gaps in the regulatory framework that we have noted. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all the colleagues who have taken part and tabled amendments to improve the report. the eu's requirements for imported fish are mainly that it must be legally caught - and we try to ensure this through our iuu regulation - and that the fish complies with sanitary requirements. as regards timber, the eu requires traceability and that the operators in the supply chain are able to guarantee, as far as possible, that the product is legally harvested, the so-called due diligence. the same system shall be introduced for conflict metals. the commission should examine whether fisheries could also benefit from similar due diligence requirements to combat illegal fishing and to give eu consumers confidence that the fish they buy is legally and sustainably fished. consumer information needs to be improved. currently, there are no requirements for processed, preserved or processed products. for example, it should be mandatory to indicate the flag state of the vessel that caught the fish. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers from harmful substances. it is important that the commission continues to put pressure on other states to implement measures to prevent illegally caught fish from entering their markets. as the world's largest fish market, the eu can make demands, and that's how we raise the standards of fisheries management globally. we have made a number of suggestions and improvements to this report, but i do not have time to go through all of them now. there is an incredible amount to be gained here and i really hope that the commission will take advantage of this report and take them further.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for all your encouragement, and thank you to commissioner vella for your kind words. i hope that my report will give us an overview of the challenges we face in relation to fishery products on the eu market and the double standards that still favour imported products produced under lower standards. it is important that eu consumers feel that they can trust products on the eu market, that they are of good quality and that they are produced sustainably. the report contains many good ideas which the commission could pursue further in order to raise the standards and ensure the quality of imports of fishery products. the lists of vessels approved for eu hygiene requirements must not be used as a back door to the eu market for less careful vessels fishing illegally. the dg hfsc stamp is an indirect signal to the eu customs authorities that everything is in order. unfortunately, there are several such examples today, especially for vessels fishing in the fish-rich waters of west africa. this is because the regional fisheries organisations in west africa, cecaf and srfc, do not keep any lists of vessels engaged in illegal fishing. since the eu does not maintain a list of vessels fishing illegally in the region, fish caught by such vessels will not be denied access to the eu market if they are also on the list of vessels that meet the hygiene requirements. the coordination must be improved to stop this kind of skewed relationship. it is also illogical that third countries which have been warned by the eu about the risk of eu trade sanctions under the iuu regulation are at the same time negotiating free trade agreements. this needs to be coordinated better within the eu, between the different commission services, so that it makes sense and sends a clear signal that the eu does not accept illegal fish on its market. once again, thank you very much for all your valuable comments and encouragement. i hope that we can continue to work on the ideas in this engström report in a positive way, not least as regards the control regulation.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteur for a very good cooperation. this is parliament's response to the commission's 2017 scoreboard, which has been produced every year for five years. it is a comparative overview of the efficiency, quality and independence of the member states' judicial systems. in 2017, the commission addressed new aspects of the functioning of the judicial system, such as access to justice for consumers and the length of criminal proceedings in member states in relation to money laundering, in relation to previous years. it is very good that it has been included, but we believe that further improvements could be made to make the scoreboard even more relevant. for example, in our report we mention that an independent judiciary is the foundation of a democracy and to ensure this, judicial systems must be free from pressures, both political and economic. we stress the importance of independent prosecutorial authorities and call on the commission to produce reports to strengthen the position of prosecutors. i think this is very important. we also regret that there is still a lack of data in some categories and we call on the member states to make greater efforts to provide comparable data. we call on the commission to develop new criteria to better assess whether legal systems are in line with the eu rule of law. here i have suggested, among other things, that we should refer to the venice commission's list of rule of law criteria. we also stress the importance of strengthening citizens' access to justice and legal aid, and the need for information tools to improve accessibility for people with disabilities, national minorities and migrants. we also regret that the scoreboard showed that the proportion of female judges in some member states has decreased compared to previous years. member states need targeted measures to improve performance. there is also a need for better gender equality work in the judiciary. it is an important foundation for efficiency and independent judiciary and therefore we propose increased training efforts, including that offered to judges, such as training on standards and stereotypes. it was also important for me as rapporteur to broaden the scope of the types of litigation to which the comparison relates. and i am glad that we are calling on the commission to develop a new indicator in future scoreboards to monitor more closely access to justice for discriminated groups. we also want the commission to produce a new indicator of information on national procedures for collective redress for next year's comparison. the possibility of class action lawsuits is becoming increasingly important in strengthening consumer, environmental and public health protection across the eu. the extensive dieselgate scandal, for example, demonstrates the right to claim compensation for improper business practices. it highlights the need to facilitate citizens' access to justice and effective dispute resolution. it would therefore be reasonable and timely to look at this in next year's scoreboard. in conclusion, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs once again for their excellent cooperation. we would certainly urge the commission to take up our recommendations.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. i am not going to go into that. today is one of the most important days of this term. it's a fun decision we're about to make, something that will mean a lot to our ability to actually stick together going forward. we are going to vote on decisive steps on the labour market and therefore also on our ability not to be torn apart by conflict but to do something together. we are going to vote on whether we accept social dumping and competition with poor labour market conditions, a and b teams, east and west, or whether we are going to compete with high quality and equal pay for equal work in the same place, no matter where we are in the eu. this proposal is a decisive step in the fight against social dumping. wages shall now be set in accordance with the national law or practice of the host country. the right to strike has been strengthened. this directive is of the utmost importance for the future of the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the whole idea of restricting freedom of movement by restricting the posting directive comes from a conviction shared by the social democrats and some parties even on the right: that fewer polish plumbers will reduce extremist parties in western europe. the problem is, it's wrong. if you restrict the access of polish plumbers, they'll find someone else to be angry at. beggars, if you restrict beggars, truckers will come. you cut out the truck drivers, you'll find someone else. this way: those who are angry, they will be angry. they'll always find someone to get mad at. if we continue in this way, we will have a europe that is both closed and isolated, that is self-damaging, and these parties on the right will not diminish. it's sad that we've come to this and i really can't vote on this.
madam president, all over the middle east there is a tragic situation developing in a dangerous and an alarming way. brutality, atrocities, warfare, the warfare of the syrian regime versus its own people, the iranians threatening to eliminate the only democracy in the region, iran present in lebanon and syria, daesh, hezbollah, hamas. all these forces of violence and hate are the main reason for all the conflicts we see in the middle east and all the losses of life we’re seeing. it’s all the time, in every case, a tragedy. but let’s be very clear about one thing. those who are advocating hate, those who are advocating terrorism, must always bear the responsibility for the acts of terrorism and hate. hamas, hezbollah, daesh, the syrian government, iran: they are responsible for the atrocities done in their name and in the name of the anti-semitism we face. we have reasons to criticise israel when they use military force in a disproportionate manner, but we must recognise their right to defend their borders and blame those who are advocating violence.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i think it is important that we stand firm on our position on the part of the eu. the basic idea that a two-state solution is the only possible one, with jerusalem as the capital of both palestine and israel, because jerusalem belongs to christians, muslims and jews and therefore to both palestinians and israelis. we can't get off that ground. instead, we need to start asking critical questions about what we can actually accomplish and what we can do. what can we do to make a difference? for example, we have the eu's association agreement with israel. it has been seen as a step toward a just peace. has it really been? have we seen any of it? perhaps it has even been the opposite, that it has favoured an expansionary settlement policy? all eu association agreements are conditional on respect for human rights. have we really been able to make that clear? chapter 2 of the agreement with israel clearly states that human rights must be respected. if not, the agreement can be revoked by the eu. maybe we should get a little tougher, even if we don't let go of our basic attitude. the european union is one of the main donors to the palestinians. we invest; israel destroys those investments all the time. it could be water supplies, it could be roads, it could be anything. we must begin to show that we do not accept that our investments, our efforts, are actually crushed, destroyed by the united states. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the gaza is under hamas rule. hamas is a terrorist organisation which also applies sharia law, which is directly brutal and repressive towards dissenters and which uses all the different means of terrorism. today we saw rockets being fired from gaza at israel. we've seen tunnels built for military attacks. we've seen aid money being used for terrorism. i wonder, what does marita ulvskog think of hamas's rule?
the answer ('blue card'). i think what feeds organizations like hamas is our passive action. it is the passive action of the outside world, that we do not look at what is at the root of this whole sad, terrible conflict, that the palestinians can have their own country too and that you can have a shared responsibility for jerusalem. every time we fail to support such an outcome, such a development, hamas is strengthened and violence triumphs.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, this has been a very useful, timely and necessary exchange, and i thank all of you for your interventions. from this debate, i have concluded that we all share a common interest in using eu diplomatic power and eu instruments to their full potential in support of the middle east peace process and with the objective of a negotiated two-state solution. our priority at the moment is for all sides to avoid any actions that could lead to further violence or loss of life. further escalation of an already tense and complex situation would only cause more suffering and will make the prospects for peace and security even more remote. it would be a gift to the extremists and to those who are not interested in peace and security and living together but are, in fact, opposed to it. ensuring humanitarian access to gaza is also urgent in order to avoid the number of casualties rising further. certainly, there is a need for an independent and transparent investigation into the incidents, not least focused on the use of live ammunition, so that we can understand what has happened and why. finally, it remains essential to restore a political horizon and hope for people on the ground. wisdom and courage are needed in order to go back to the negotiations for a lasting political solution for the sake of both israelis and palestinians. only the two-state solution will realistically allow both sides to fulfil their aspirations and put an end to the conflict. the union is ready to play its role and fully supports the resumption of a meaningful peace process, together with regional and international partners.
in writing. – the humanitarian situation in gaza is unsustainable. the israeli blockade of the gaza strip is a form of collective punishment, like an open-air prison. the blockade is preventing the entry of building materials and spare parts that enable the rebuilding of gaza's bombed hospitals, schools and infrastructure. it forces the palestinians in gaza to live without equal access to healthcare, medicine, food, water, electricity and education. i condemn the us government’s recognition of jerusalem as israel’s capital. the eu has a clear, consolidated position on jerusalem: the eu will continue to respect the international consensus on jerusalem embodied in, inter alia, un security council resolution 478, including on the location of diplomatic representations until the final status of jerusalem is resolved. on tuesday, gaza militants launched rockets across the border and israel hit back with air strikes. the eu has to stop this escalating violence immediately. no more time for silent observers! now is the moment for the eu to speed up the process towards the two-state solution, the only way to secure a peaceful and fair future for both people.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. one of the first, biggest and most important achievements of eu cooperation is the right for us eu citizens to move freely across national borders, but since 2015 this right has unfortunately been restricted in country after country. several member states, including sweden, have reintroduced border controls which were supposed to be temporary but unfortunately seem to have become more or less permanent. today, the refugee situation in the eu is under control. the outer border is fortified. many measures have been taken to ensure safety. border controls have played their part, but they are now hitting very, very hard against the economy and the prosperity of us citizens. moreover, they are neither proportionate nor necessary and should have been abolished long ago. i would like to thank the rapporteur, carlos coelho, for a very balanced and very important report which is necessary because it is becoming clear that not all member states are living up to the basic requirements. two years ago the commission presented a roadmap for returning to a full schengen. two years later, it's a distant dream. prolonged border checks are a strain on the internal market and are not a national issue. this is a question which must be answered at european and international level. i think it is very important that we now return to a full schengen, and i think, like the commissioner, the rapporteur and many colleagues here, that it is high time for romania and bulgaria to be part of a fully functioning schengen cooperation.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. schengen is perhaps the most appreciated aspect of eu cooperation by many citizens, and it has brought significant benefits to both eu citizens and businesses. this is something we all want to protect, but it has been put to the test in recent years, and especially in the context of the 2015 refugee crisis, when several member states reintroduced border controls. although the situation looks different today, member states continue to extend controls in the light of terrorist and security threats. i would argue that it is the perceived sense of threat by member states rather than the actual existence of threat that is at issue in this case. the response we usually give in the eu to that sense of insecurity is to strengthen our external borders and to stop people from coming here, both migrants and potential terrorists, even though the latter are in the vast majority of cases raised in our countries. i think it is a pity that today's report too is too much in that vein, but i will speak about what i consider to be the most important aspect of the report, namely parliament's strong criticism of the fact that member states continue to introduce internal controls, especially since several of them are not in line with the existing rules as regards scope, needs and proportionality. the european parliament therefore considers them to be illegal. we in parliament also believe that there is no proportion between the measures adopted to strengthen the external borders and those taken to eliminate the internal ones. we believe that there are other and better ways of preventing, inter alia, crossborder crime than identity checks at internal borders.
mr president, i would like to thank you. all empires fall sooner or later. the first sign that the eu was falling was when brexit started. now the next tile may be about to fall because it no longer serves its purpose. i am, of course, referring to the schengen area. the idea behind schengen was basically a good one; it would make it easier for eu citizens to move freely and smoothly within europe. this led many, at least in my country sweden, to vote in favour of eu membership. imagine the ease of traveling around europe without having to pass through passport or border controls. for this to work and be possible, the eu's external border protection was supposed to work. we know it doesn't, even though we bribed turkey with 60 billion to stop the migrants from crossing the mediterranean. more recently, we have also assisted libya with assistance to stem the flow of migrants to italy. during this time we have also tripled the funding for frontex, which is responsible for guarding and securing our external borders. the result is, by and large, a larger mission for them to search and rescue people at sea, who they then transport to greece and italy. about 80 percent of their activities are related to this mission. with the facts in hand, and with the change we see today, it won't last. we have seen an illegal migration like no other. weapons and drugs have also been allowed to move freely in principle, not to mention terrorists, how they organise themselves and commit terrorist acts in our member states.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. this report covers a wide range of issues, but i would like to dedicate my speech to highlighting all the fire-breathing women, heroines, even tiger-maidens, who are working to make our world and our lives free from gender-based violence. i think of all of you who work tirelessly at women's shelters and on call, and of you who make sure that women and children have somewhere to go when they need to go. you not only take care of women who are at risk, you build expertise and knowledge to prevent it. without you, we would not have gotten anywhere in the fight against violence against women and girls. in this text we have been given requirements to support your work. we say that the eu and the member states must increase the number and accessibility of women's shelters across the eu. we say that the eu and the member states must finance your activities. these are important recommendations from parliament. i would also like to highlight the istanbul convention as a tool to combat violence against women. it is a shame that not all the member states have ratified it and that they are blocking it in the council so that the eu cannot join. i wonder what the commission will do about this? other important recommendations included in our joint report include support for undocumented victims of crime, for migrants and asylum seekers, for lgbt people who are also victims of hate crime and gender-based violence, and for minorities. in sum, there is still a lot to be done. we have to do this now!
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am deeply sorry that victims of crime have difficulty in accessing support and that in some member states there is a lack of support for victims of crime. this should be a right for all eu citizens and that is why this legislation is so important and good. the most vulnerable victims children, people without education, people with disabilities, the elderly and victims of trafficking in human beings often have difficulty understanding the information provided by the authorities. that's why i'm glad to see the writings that an expert will be on the ground to assist the victims. it is particularly important that there be access to sheltered housing and women's shelters. women who have survived violence should never be denied a place in a shelter. member states must also strengthen the rights of victims of hate crime. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the most important thing to be reminded of, however, is the very vulnerable situation of child victims of crime, in particular children who are victims of trafficking in human beings, sexual exploitation and gender-based violence. no child should have to be subjected to violence, nothing, but those who do should always be given priority.
rapporteur. – mr president, i must say that this is a rather special moment for me: i have been living with european trade defence legislation for rather a long time now. back in 2006, when peter mandelson first presented his green paper, i started writing my first report on behalf of this house on how to reform the trade defence instrument. that wasn’t really a success, either for me or for peter mandelson, i must say. but here we are now, just about to vote on the ghost proposal that we have been working on and waiting for a vote on for more than five years now. this is actually the first major reform of european trade defence instruments in 25 years. a lot has changed in the world during those 25 years – global supply chains, the rise of china – so this is long overdue, and it feels good to be able to close the books on this thing. i would like to start by thanking all my shadows, who have worked on this for all this time, and i’d like to thank the commission and both the maltese and estonian presidencies in the council for their hard work finding a compromise, because this is truly a compromise. this is what needs to be a compromise, in what might be one of the most controversial areas of trade policy, where different interests so clearly stand against each other: european producers on the one hand, who want tariff protection from what they see as unfair trading practices; on the other hand, importers and consumers who, in the end, have to bear the cost of these tariffs. for every job protected by anti-dumping duties, we always run the risk of potentially threatening some job in another part of the economy. but we have to recognise that these instruments are the second best option when we don’t have international rules for competition. they should be a safety valve for us, giving us the possibility to push for further trade liberalisation, and not – as the us is using these tools today – as a tool for protectionism to stop liberalisation. the three important things that we have done in this report involve trying to give something to all stakeholders. the first is to see to it that it’s possible to have higher tariffs under certain circumstances – something i know that producers appreciate. we also added predictability as the second point: we guarantee that you get prior notice three weeks before tariffs are introduced, so that anybody that imports something knows it won’t be more expensive when it arrives compared to when they bought it, and that’s important for importers. third – something that’s important for all stakeholders – is that the investigation periods are shorter, because the mere threat of tariffs will affect trade and cost money. now we leave this in the hands of the commission, and you will have to implement this. i will just make some pleas: first, obey the wto rules in every detail when implementing this, because we cannot, at a time when others don’t respect the wto, follow that example. we have to play by the rules. second, don’t target the environment with these tools: too many duties today are targeted at environmentally friendly goods such as biodiesel, ethanol, solar panels and, soon, electrical bicycles. third, don’t target value-added goods produced in europe. think about the global value chains. sometimes we might earn more with ‘designed in europe’ than with ‘made in europe’. last but not least, think about the overall interests of the european economy: it might be more important to do a good union interests test to see that everyone wins than to do just one thing. finally, i have never met anybody that has claimed to be a protectionist in this process, but i have met a lot of people that want to protect xyz. be careful: don’t listen to the sirens; never use these tools for protectionism.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this debate. i think it is a reflection of the very constructive approach that the rapporteur and all the shadows have had in this very long journey. i have listened very carefully and i hope that we will continue to engage on this, for instance, in our exchange on the annual trade defence instrument (tdi) report with the international trade (inta) committee. the debate has pointed out many of the improvements to our trade defence instruments, and if you vote yes tomorrow – which i sincerely hope you will – this will now enter into force on 8 june, and we will thereby be much better equipped for future challenges. the european union pursues a free and fair trade agenda. we want to have open markets at home and abroad. this work is reflected in the work we do in our free trade agreements and also in our work to try to strengthen and to reform the world trade organization (wto). that is why we need these tools: to make sure that we can compete on a fair basis. we stand committed, as i said, to a rule-based system and we will continue to pursue an update of the wto rulebooks in order to ensure that continued effectiveness of the wto rules against fair trade – notably in the area of subsidies – is addressed as well. so thank you very much for this debate.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank commissioner malmström and my colleagues for their kind words. i hope that colleagues who know where i come from politically on this question can appreciate that i have tried to be an honest broker in this process. i don’t like tariffs – any tariffs at all – and let me just personally leave you with a scenario to ponder upon, because it might be 25 years until the next time we discuss this here, so we will have the time to ponder upon a response. imagine that the chinese leave us with 500 million tons of steel at the european border for free, just for us to pick up. what is the rational european reaction to that? is it to say, ‘wow, great, let’s build cheap cars for our citizens and maybe even export them at a profit to china’? or is it the russian reaction, which is to get angry, send it back and say, ‘if you try to sell us more steel, we will charge ourselves even more for that steel’? i know what my response would have been if i were a european steel producer. i would have gone for the first option, but if the responsibility had been jobs and wealth in europe, i am not so sure. until the next time we discuss this topic, i hope everybody has thought carefully about what would be best for europe in that case.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would first like to thank mr tokia saïfi for a very good and balanced report which gives an honest assessment of the commission's policy, but if i were to give my own personal view of the commission's approach to free trade policy, i would actually say that perhaps the most important thing in the commission's approach is not what we do but what we do not do. that in a time when more and more people are turning to protectionism we are not going down that road; that europe is committed to free trade and is committed to playing by the rules of international trade. we do not challenge, we do not break, as, for example, the united states does. we must, i think, use this vacuum in the world - which the united states leaves behind when it withdraws from global trade - and fill it with valuable european content. so i have four things i want to point out. the first is that our free trade agreements are taking too long. the free trade agreements with canada and singapore have taken eight years! we can't have that in the future. secondly, we need to have a trade policy for the new economy, for the digital economy, and then we need to have trade agreements with data flows, not without. thirdly, global value chains must be a central part of our trade policy, to enable them, and then we cannot have cumbersome rules of origin, but we must have flexible rules of origin that allow our companies to take advantage of globalisation. and last but not least, investment policy. we need to protect european investment and we need to re-establish european investment policy. i believe that this is the most important thing the commission can do in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking all those who have contributed to this report. trade policy is a cornerstone of our economy. together with good policies, it creates growth, jobs and increased prosperity. it is therefore particularly important that we follow up the policy adopted and see what can be done better. actually, a negotiated agreement is just the beginning. we must do better in ensuring that our companies can take advantage of the benefits that agreements actually offer. we need to do better at increasing the involvement of civil society and social partners. to achieve the un 2030 agenda, we also need to do even better in promoting fundamental values such as human rights in trade policy. implementing the sustainability chapter is important, and also not stopping to evaluate how this is best done. we don't agree on everything, which makes it valuable and important that we can compromise. i think we should always take as a starting point the promotion of progressive and fair trade agreements, and remember that a negotiated agreement is only the beginning.
mr president, i would like to ask for a minute’s silence. je vais demander une minute de silence, car aujourd’hui est le jour des funérailles de la petite mawda, qui a été tuée par une balle tirée par un policier en belgique le jeudi 17 mai. toute la lumière doit être faite sur cette atrocité, les responsabilités doivent être établies et justice doit être faite. mais aujourd’hui, je pense que nous devons prendre part à ce deuil et montrer notre respect aux parents de mawda par une minute de silence. en ce moment, en belgique, une marche blanche est organisée pour accompagner la famille dans son deuil, la mère, le père, le frère de mawda. nous ne pouvons pas être avec eux, mais je propose que nous montrions notre respect à cette famille par une minute de silence.
mr president, even under the treaty of rome, the so—called european economic community was to be financed by national contributions for the transitional period only and subsequently by a system of own resources. today, in the light of brexit, we come back to the same discussions. probably somewhere between 14% and 19% of the eu budget will be lacking when the uk exits the european union and we need to finance the eu, especially in times when actions at eu level are more and more demanded by our citizens and we are taking on more and more tasks. therefore, i strongly support that we follow one single, simple and transparent principle: that eu resources flowing from eu policies should flow to the eu budget. it will ease the burden borne by the member states through their national contributions and ensure the proper financing of eu policies with clear european added value.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the revelations about these 12 countries selling citizenship in their own country and thus to the whole of the eu, it is simply scandalous. it is also unfair because only very rich people from third countries can benefit from this, while the poor continue to risk their lives all the time on the perilous journeys across the mediterranean and are in the hands of smugglers in search of new opportunities for life. the golden visas we are discussing today also undermine all our efforts to fight corruption, because they reward tax evasion and money laundering. it's time to end this undignified behavior. it is time to stand up for the eu's fundamental values of the equal value of all people and to fight corruption and other miseries. in order to maintain the security of our union, i now call on the commission to actually review the way these programmes work and how they are used. transparency must be increased, and now is the time for you to act.
mr president, i would like to thank you. a child-friendly europe is a good europe for all of us. the revision of the brussels ii regulation is crucial to ensure that family law in the eu takes account of the best interests of the child in disputes concerning marriage and custody, especially given the increasing number of citizens who are now adopting children across national borders. we must remember that the number of children born to unmarried or same-sex couples continues to increase in the eu. it is sad to see how the epp and also the conservative swedish politicians in this house repeatedly fight against proposals that would strengthen the rights of these children. on monday, they even voted against this debate. unfortunately, the new regulation does not cover registered partnerships, although 19 eu member states, including sweden, already allow such partnerships or, as in sweden's case, marriage. because marriage is often defined exclusively as a union between opposite sexes, the legal situation for children of registered partnerships is unclear. but this is not how we can have it! in view of this, i wonder what the commission intends to do with regard to registered partnerships? how can you ensure that children are protected? will the commission extend the scope of application to registered partnerships to increase access to justice for citizens in the eu? and if so, when? the children can't wait.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. yesterday we discussed border controls at the internal borders. the content of the discussion was: to return to open borders within the eu, we must protect the external borders against migrants and potential terrorists. although we greens do not agree with that conclusion, we are all in this house in agreement that the protection of borders must not come at the expense of human rights. we also have a big problem with the fact that the applicant country turkey is receiving a lot of financial support from the eu to bring it into line with the eu acquis and turkey has also received support to be able to take care of the enormous number of refugees who have fled the war in syria and whom the eu wants to stop from reaching greece. so far everything is fine that the money comes to but when eu-sponsored military vehicles are used to stop migrants from entering turkey by force instead, and when refugees are even shot when they try to cross the border, it is rather so that we in the eu can be accused of having contributed to committing serious human rights violations. the commission considers that the agreement with turkey has been a success; i see that it has contributed to human rights violations and people being shot dead. it's extremely serious and we want answers to our questions.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. after my visit to the west african fisheries sector, i am even more committed to ensuring that eu sector support in fisheries agreements also goes to women. women in the fishing sector are particularly vulnerable. they often have to take their children with them when they smoke the fish, and all day long they breathe in toxic smoke from the fireplaces that causes them major health problems, such as lung and respiratory damage. to access raw materials, women are forced to sell their bodies as the oceans are being depleted at a very rapid rate and the price of fish has risen. today we are debating the role and conditions of women in the eu's external relations, such as development work and trade, and the report really calls for us to do better on gender equality. we need to change culture. we still live in a world where women's lives, experiences and leadership are downplayed and made invisible. to be able to provide for oneself, to have control over one's own body it is a fundamental right.
for the verts/ale group. i am not sure that this is the case. we must ensure that products on our market are designed to save both energy and raw materials. products need to be more reusable, repairable and recyclable, and the in-built ageing process must be banned. we must urgently address the problems of chemicals and microplastics in our oceans and in our daily lives. it is important that products such as washing machines and mobile phones are included in this directive. we have smart washing machines. can we stop microplastics from clothes that end up in our wastewater and are difficult to clean? a simple, inexpensive and effective measure. we know that our cell phones contain valuable and rare minerals that are often mined under terrible conditions in poorer countries, so the next step is to introduce ethical and environmental criteria, such as origin labeling and extraction of raw materials used in our products. human rights and the environment must be at the heart of our eu legislation.
author. – mr president, in the name of my committee – the committee on petitions – i am very proud to present the oral question and the resolution responding to petitions on tackling precariousness and the abusive use of fixed-term contracts. my committee has received, during the past few years, 80-plus petitions on the use of fixed-term contracts, zero-hours contracts and temporary contracts from different member states (actually10 different member states) and therefore the committee decided in november to organise a hearing under the title ‘protection of the rights of workers in temporary or precarious employment’. the hearing looked in detail at all the issues raised in these petitions. a study on temporary contracts was also commissioned by policy department c, and was presented during the hearing. it focused on two broad areas: first, atypical forms of employment and franchising; and, second, recommendations on adopting a holistic, comprehensive approach to address these problems. in january of this year, the committee coordinators unanimously decided, as a follow-up to these two activities, to draft an oral question and a motion for a resolution responding to petitions. in may this year, we also adopted the oral question and the amended draft for a motion. so the oral question tabled by the committee focuses on the correct implementation of eu law regarding the protection of workers in the eu, and on the compatibility of some specific types of contract, such as the currently much-talked-of zero-hours contracts, with european legislation – i.e. whether there is compatibility or not. thirdly, action is needed to address the abusive use of fixed-term contracts and precarious forms of employment. we want to ensure proper implementation of employment directives in the public and private sectors. we have also highlighted the legislation proposed by the commission and the need to ensure the predictability and sustainability of employment. and, lastly, we want to ask the commission about the state of play in current infringement procedures for violation of eu labour legislation. when you look at the text of the resolution, you should bear in mind the increase in the number of workers with fixed-term and part-time contracts and the significant increase in temporary employment contracts and atypical contracts, in both the public and private sectors. in the light of this large number of petitions that we have received, we consider there is a need for a debate on the situation of workers in the european union. we would have liked to do this together with the committee on employment and social affairs, but it takes two to tango and we were simply turned down. nevertheless, we, as the petitions committee, need to address all those citizens everywhere in the member states who actually came to us pointing out their difficulties. we must not forget that petitions are a reflection of citizens and their situation, and are an important signalling mechanism to the legislative committees of this house and to the commission. these petitions reveal gaps in the legislation, or in the implementation of legislation, and the petitions sent to my committee regarding precarious employment should therefore be taken extremely seriously. we would like – and i am talking here on behalf of all the political groups in the committee – to invite the commission not only to review the legal instrument but also to think of how, in future, to avoid the harmful situations of which all these people are victims. we should find ways to ease the life of eu citizens who are suffering from precariousness, and the oral question and the resolution have been put on the plenary agenda in order to draw attention to the concrete problems faced by european citizens. we are – and i personally am – now expecting the commission not only to reply to the specific points in the oral question but also to commit to making all the necessary efforts to ensure the best possible protection of all workers in the european union. they deserve it.
member of the commission. – mr president, this debate shows once more the relevance and the urgency of our initiatives to tackle precarious work. the commission has tabled some proposals that specifically target precariousness in employment. no doubt new challenges are developing continuously in today’s labour market. there is a growing risk of lack of protection of workers, especially those in new and non-standard forms of employment. this is the situation on the ground. therefore, our efforts must be sustained and intensified. as the commission, we count on your support to rapidly translate the commission’s recent proposals into reality, and with the degree of ambition and protection that eu citizens expect from the eu. we have to meet the expectations of our citizens.
author. – mr president, i demand the release of unfairly-jailed persons and jailed human rights defenders, and that the eu must remain determined to put human rights concerns with iran as a priority on every possible occasion. the arrests of dual nationals are part of a wider crackdown on human rights in iran. also, women are facing prosecution for protesting against iran’s compulsory dress code. i am very worried about the reports of recent deaths in detention, especially as no iranian official has ever been held accountable for the violations of human rights of persons in state custody. cases where imprisoned individuals are sentenced to death are also extremely worrying. the eu is committed to the universal abolition and an immediate stop of the death penalty, and i am committed to seeing the stop of all state killings.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. since april 2016, swedish-iranian researcher ahmadreza djalali has been imprisoned in iran. amnesty international and independent un experts consider the accusations against him to be baseless. but he's still sentenced to death. this is an attack on an individual citizen of the european union, and it is also an affront to human dignity and democratic values. despite hopes for change in iran, the situation is getting worse. the regime's support for terrorism is increasing; executions are on the rise, as are human rights violations. in order not to disrupt relations with the regime, some argue that tacit diplomacy should be applied in the case of djalali. this tacit diplomacy has so far been fruitless. that is why the resolution we are considering today is so important. we in the european parliament say directly to the iranian regime: release ahmadreza djalali, respect human rights, abolish the death penalty.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in 2017, 507 people were executed in iran. this represents 60 percent of all confirmed executions in the middle east and north africa. iran is second only to china in the number of death sentences handed down, as usual. iran is a country where it is well known that human rights are not respected by the persian regime. it is a country where freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of association but also environmental commitment can lead to innocent people being tortured and sentenced to death on all kinds of unclear grounds. in recent years, the country has intensified its arrests of civil society activists, human rights defenders, environmentalists and political activists. there are many cases that amnesty has taken on over the years. today i would like to draw particular attention to the swedish researcher ahmadreza djalali, who spent two years in one of the world's most dangerous prisons, evin prison. it is a prison notorious for its torture-like practices, where several prisoners have been reported tortured to death. for two years, djalali has been away from his family and barely had contact with the outside world. in january this year he was sentenced to death on charges of espionage, a crime that many dual nationals suffer. djalali has lost up to 25 kilos in the last six months. his health has deteriorated drastically but he is being denied medical care, and i therefore appeal to the persian authorities to guarantee djalali's right to his lawyer and medical treatment in addition to the immediate annulment of the death sentence and his release and the possibility of returning to sweden. there is no death penalty that can be justified. the death penalty is more of a crime in itself. it is a crime which we in this parliament have a duty to take into account, for all those whose voices have already been silenced or are in danger of being silenced.
mr president, commissioner stylianides, i would like to thank you for your reply. we stand here and demand loud and clear that the death sentence against ahmadreza djalali be quashed, that he be allowed to return to sweden to his family, and that kamran ghaderi, nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe, abbas edalat be released immediately. another very urgent case is that of ramin hossein panahi, only 22 years old, sentenced to death in a grossly unfair trial. release him and the others immediately. the human rights situation in iran is very serious. as a party to the international covenant on civil and political rights, iran has obligations. despite this, arrests of activists and human rights defenders have increased under the current presidency. the eu has an important role to play not only in the important nuclear deal but also in human rights in iran. we must always stand up against the death penalty and we must always ensure human rights.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, in saudi arabia, women are treated as less than human. it is good news that women can now start to enjoy some of their most basic human rights which they have long been denied, such as launching their own business and driving. but, without a fully-functioning democracy, even these freedoms cannot be enjoyed. 11 women’s rights activists are right now detained in prison – the very same who have been tirelessly campaigning against a ban on driving and the repressive and inhuman guardian system. the human rights defenders must be released immediately and the reforms in saudi arabia must go further and faster. why should women wait to enjoy their basic human rights? it is time for saudi to understand that without women, you are nothing, so please release these women from prison so they can enjoy their basic human rights. (applause)
author. – mr president, i call on the sudanese authorities to remove the death sentence on noura hussein. this is an inhuman and unjust sentencing of a girl, a child bride who was physically and psychologically abused by her family and raped by her husband. noura was defending herself from being raped again by a man she was forced to be married to when she was only 16. in its judgment, the court did not take into account forced marriage, rape and other forms of gender-based violence as evidence, so noura did not even get a fair trial. marital rape is illegal, child marriage is illegal, violence against women is illegal. noura was acting in self-defence. she is the victim. she deserves full respect for her right to a fair trial and appeal, in line with international standards, not to be judged to that sentence.
madam president, i am absolutely shocked to find that the ppe has asked for a separate vote on paragraph 8 to eliminate the condemnation of saudi arabia for the male guardianship system. so my question is: who do you serve, women’s rights or whom? (applause)
madam president, if i had travelled from the city, by the train i now live in, from stockholm, it would have taken me about six hours. if i had traveled from the city where i was born, from sarajevo, which is as far from strasbourg as stockholm, it would have taken me 28 hours. doesn't that say it all? the connecting europe facility is an instrument for better connecting europe in the areas of transport, energy and digital policy and the western balkans cannot be excluded from it as the western balkans are already on the path to joining europe. the european union should support these countries, should enable them to be both self-contained in a region and connected to the union. and so, border crossings need to be made, rail infrastructure secured and so on. and that will also increase economic development and improve the lives of citizens. the western balkans are part of europe, and then it is probably necessary to be able to get to the western balkans. thank you very much.
author. – madam president, various cases of sexual abuse and misconduct within international aid organisations have recently come to light. these include the sexual exploitation of syrian refugees by those delivering aid on behalf of the united nations and other well-known international organisations. several countries, including the united kingdom and the netherlands, have announced investigations into the funding they provide to these and other international organisations, and that they intend to make measures to prevent similar situations in the future. through its external financial instruments and the european development fund, the eu provides billions of euros in assistance to third countries through international organisations among other channels. i therefore have a few questions for the high representative on a response from the european union. first of all, will the commission or the high representative order a thorough investigation to determine whether eu funds have financed, either directly or indirectly, the organisations where sexual abuse has been established? secondly, what is the response by the commission and the high representative to the abuse cases that have recently come to light? in order to combat and prevent sexual misconduct within international aid organisations, is there room for guidelines within the eu’s external financial instruments that would make funding strictly conditional upon respect for principles, oversight, guidelines accountability and regular reporting from beneficiaries on this issue? last but not least, will the commission and the high representative consider working with member states such as the united kingdom and the netherlands to set up contact points in third countries including in crisis zones for victims of abuse?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to take this opportunity to thank rapporteur zoffoli and also the commission and the bulgarian presidency for the good cooperation they have shown here. i myself have been responsible for this issue in the epp group. without the truck, europe will stop. we simply cannot do without it, which is why we must do what we can to combat the emissions from trucks. they account for a significant proportion of emissions. in sweden alone, for example, road traffic accounts for about 30 percent of emissions, and trucks for 20 percent. there is a myth that trucks are not becoming more efficient. that's not true; they're becoming more efficient. in sweden alone, emissions from heavy trucks fell by 11 percent last year. it is not surprising that the buyer of a truck wants above all to have a truck that is fuel efficient, because that is the biggest cost when you buy a truck. market forces here work very well to help the environment. the problem is that it's not going down fast enough, and that's what we have to do something about. that is why we now have legislation to ensure that we measure the co2 emissions from our heavy trucks better, and soon we will also be working together to find legislation to limit the emissions from those heavy trucks. the big question we've been debating here, and having conflicts about, is what information should be made public. i have had a strong principle that the information that manufacturers should be obliged to publish about their products is the information we need to measure emissions, but some here seem to have the principle that all information about everything should be made available to everyone. almost as if the goal was to have our products copied by others. europe is the world leader in truck production and it should remain so, but then we will be exporting environmentally friendly trucks, not sensitive information about how we produce our trucks. that's why i think the balance we've made here -- to make sure we publish information that reduces emissions, not that allows others to copy our trucks -- is what's important. because if we do, we are exporting sensitive information, we are exporting jobs and growth from europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. youth unemployment is one of the biggest problems we have in all european societies. young people are among those hardest hit by the financial and economic crisis and have been the first to fall out of the labour market with their temporary contracts. they have suffered most from social exclusion and now they are even beginning to vote for the parties that we do not want to see in our societies. the reason for this is very often that they have a lack of education which does not allow them to gain a foothold in the labour market, and this is very drastic according to the pisa study: one in five young people have difficulty reading and understanding text. it is therefore necessary that we at least tackle the problem at european level and try to help the nation states to do something about it, even if they are the ones who have to do it. otherwise, we're gonna lose an entire generation, and we can't afford that.
madam president, reaction to the enlargement strategy at the council meeting in sofia has made it perfectly clear that there is enlargement fatigue in the eu. my question is the following. let’s imagine that we have ‘abracadabra power’ and can make all these countries fulfil the criteria immediately: everything, even more than that. would they be accepted tomorrow as eu members? if the answer to that question is ‘no’, then the problem is on our side, not on theirs. therefore, i believe we have to start working in parallel: we, the commissioner and the others, pushing them to fulfil the criteria simultaneously to shape opinion in the european union. we have to start talking about what we gain from enlargement: about the well-educated regions, the new markets, creating stability, creating lasting peace, etc. – what our citizens will gain. we have to remind everybody else how the opposition to spain and portugal was, and how today these countries are regarded seriously and are respected. so if we do not shape this opinion, we will have serious problems very soon.
madam president, we have been getting used to seeing the failures of summits lately. i regret it very much that the eu heads of state have consistently failed to show leadership on asylum reforms, and only last week we saw president trump crash the g7 summit. leadership should now be exercised and the tyranny of low expectations should be left behind. it is now high time for heads of state to rise above national egoism and show citizens all over the eu that we can deliver substantial, meaningful reforms of the dublin regulation, for which i happen to be the rapporteur. i know that some member states – and also members of this house – are tempted to declare the dublin reform process dead and suggest instead some form of externalisation of responsibilities in the field of asylum, pretending that we can wave a magic wand and send the asylum seekers to faraway camps, which would of course be an enormous error for the simple reason that it would never work. even if you ignore the obvious moral issues, there are still practical and legal issues. it would be a waste of time. instead, what we need today are practical solutions, not castles in the sky. it is now high time for the council to join the european parliament at the dublin regulation negotiating table. i can promise you that this house – and i, myself – stand ready for discussions. no more excuses and delays. it is high time to deliver. we owe it to the citizens of europe.
madam president, i would like to thank you. brexit is one of the items today, and it brings me into the budget unnoticed where the revenue loss that occurs when britain leaves this house is totally ignored. instead, high fees will be levied on the remaining member countries and own revenues will be generated in the form of customs duties and the like. for sweden, an increase of sek 15 billion is proposed. let me be very clear when i say that swedish taxpayers are not interested in paying additional fees to this house. we demand that the eu take responsibility for taxpayers' money and we demand that you take into account the loss of income that will occur when the uk leaves. if it does not, it is the duty and responsibility of the swedish government to the swedish people to ask for a renegotiation of the agreement, as we are now being used as a pawn of the eu. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the answer ('blue card'). thank you for asking. no, i don't think that's what you mean. as far as vat and taxation are concerned, there is a clear national competence; there is nothing that should be left to this house. and the eu should not even seek the possibility of having its own sources of revenue; the eu should be able to use the money it receives through membership fees. as far as sweden is concerned, we have always been a net contributor. i do not think we are getting what we want out of that agreement and therefore it should be renegotiated.
mr president, i would like to thank you. foreign minister mogherini! less than two weeks ago, we were standing here debating human rights in iran. although the debate today is about the nuclear agreement, i would like to begin by stressing the importance of the eu standing up for human rights and against the death penalty. i want to repeat one of the demands of the last: the release of ahmadreza djalali, iran! do it now! on today's subject, i would say that the unilateral decision by the united states to withdraw from the agreement is both disturbing and irresponsible. several have said that this increases tensions in the region and may favour the least reform-friendly forces. the nuclear deal is not perfect, but it is the result of 12 years of diplomatic effort. the agreement has meant that we have had a control mechanism in place. it's been important to our security and to global non-proliferation efforts. the eu must now end its support for mogherini and take a holistic view of the situation. in parallel with the work on nuclear weapons, we must continue to press ahead in the areas of concern.
mr president, as europeans we believe in political dialogue and disarmament. at the same time, the jcpoa is a deal with serious flaws, the first one being that the negotiations leading up to the deal were a missed opportunity to improve the human rights situation in the islamic republic. secondly, the deal allowed iran to keep its nuclear infrastructure intact. it was designed to put off problems, not to deal with them once and for all. thirdly, the revenue from lifted sanctions went into the pockets of the revolutionary guard, rather than to the country’s suffering people. the eu should now look at these failings and condition our future commitment to the jcpoa on human rights improvements, a complete stop to the sponsoring of terrorists, and the full dismantling of the iranian nuclear infrastructure.
mr president, it was a military invasion of a free and independent country, and it is a military occupation of a free and independent country. if we can’t stand up for the freedom and sovereignty of georgia, we can’t stand up for the freedom and sovereignty of other european nations and of the european union. it is one example of far too many of how russia is implementing aggressive policies versus its neighbours. military forces, warfare, support to separatist groups, disinformation, propaganda, economic blockades: russia is responsible for all that is happening under the occupation in south ossetia and abkhazia regarding human rights, and all we can do is to call on russia to withdraw its military troops and respect international law.
madam president, i say ‘no’ to nato. the eu does not need to strengthen relations with nato, but rather the opposite. i cannot accept the continuation of old-school militaristic thinking, with priority afforded to military alliances and increased spending on defence budgets and militaries globally, leading to tensions between countries. as a feminist and a pacifist, i call for a transformation towards a feminist security policy that puts human security, personal integrity and safety from interpersonal violence at the centre of our defence and security agenda. for a safer world we need to invest in conflict-prevention and mediation. the eu is meant to be a peace project, not a military project.
madam president, i would like to thank you. this is a very contradictory report, on the one hand it says that the eu and nato have different tasks, but then everything points in the direction of a total confusion, with the fight against terrorism, the fight against irregular migration, etc. despite the title, a more concrete partnership, most of it is very lame. i myself come from a non-nato country and i see the matter from that perspective too. paragraph 33 states that member states which are not members of nato should have other obligations in the framework of the european defence union. please explain what obligations are involved. paragraph 9 states that cooperation should also be deepened in the event of crises, not wars, on the european continent. what kind of crisis? is it storms and floods, refugee flows, or terrorist attacks? the report presents the possibility of joint eu-nato operations on eu territory, but does not discuss how and under what circumstances this could happen. in practice, this could mean turkish soldiers in greece or nato forces in neutral eu countries. who decides who does what, and what gets done? the text also opens up the possibility of voluntary permanent structured cooperation for nato before it has even started, and this is also very problematic for us both strategically and politically, but perhaps also legally.
madam president, with developing instability around the world, eu cooperation on defence and security is a necessity. with this in mind, we should welcome increased european cohesion on research and development. projects like permanent structured cooperation (pesco) and the european defence fund are really significant. at the same time, some eu representatives consider this the first step towards a common eu army. therefore, let me stress that the eu is not a military alliance. the relevant and credible military structure of europe is nato. since 1949 nato has been an effective, powerful instrument for security, stability and peace. so let’s spend our time and our resources efficiently. let’s not contribute to a parallel military structure in europe.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. commissioner dombrovskis, you are here. first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues who have worked on this proposal. ukraine is an important neighbour. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the eu continues to support the country's development in the right direction. especially in times of turmoil, it is especially important that we do not give up. we cannot abandon the pro-reform forces and the vital civil society in ukraine. since we started working in the european parliament's commerce committee, i have been very clear that the commission cannot expect us to accept its proposals automatically. we must be given time to review and debate the proposal. we need to do our job as co-legislators. we therefore want to be equally clear today to both the commission and ukraine on what is required for this macro-financial assistance to make a real difference for the betterment of society as a whole and not just a few. the agreed terms of the fight against corruption must be comprehensive and clear. a special anti-corruption court has just been approved by the ukrainian parliament, but now it must be in place and actually functioning in practice. the agreed terms must also promote sustainable and socially responsible development, which creates jobs, contributes to greater equality and reduces poverty. after much discussion in both the commerce and foreign affairs committees, we believe that we have succeeded in finding a good compromise and a strengthened position through a clear and strong joint statement by all three institutions. we now expect the commission and the council to continue to fully support our joint statement. we expect the commission to report continuously on the macro-financial assistance and the fulfilment of the conditions, and we expect the commission to present the memorandum of understanding as soon as possible.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for having this important debate on the agenda today. indeed this is not the first time i had the opportunity to discuss with you this very important topic. i would like to use the opportunity to reiterate the points which i have made previously. combating all forms of violence against women and young girls is a core element of the respect for fundamental rights. these crimes have no place in the union, and the council is clear on zero tolerance of violence against women. the istanbul convention is a comprehensive framework on violence against women and domestic violence. it constitutes a concrete tool to eradicate all forms of violence against women, protect its victims and prosecute the perpetrators. finally, it contributes to the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women and promotes equality between women and men. all 28 member states have already signed this convention, and 18 of them have already ratified it. the council has, on several occasions, encouraged those member states who have not done so yet to ratify the istanbul convention. on 11 may 2017, the council adopted the decisions on the signing of the convention on behalf of the european union. our presidency is carrying on the work on the conclusion of this important instrument. this includes reaching agreement on internal rules in the form of a code of conduct for the implementation of the convention. according to the eu-wide survey on violence against women conducted by the fundamental rights agency in 2014, one—in—three women, which means 33%, has experienced physical and/or sexual violence since the age of 15. one—in—five women, which means 18%, has experienced stalking; every second woman has been confronted with one or more forms of sexual harassment. violence against women cannot be seen as a marginal issue that touches only on some women’s lives. last but not least, gender-based violence also has a significant impact on economies and societies as a whole, for example in terms of health, legal and social services. in 2014, the european institute for gender equality has estimated that the cost of violence against women in the european union could amount to billions, or to be more precise, eur 109 billion per year. as president tajani strongly affirmed, ‘the struggle for the elimination of violence against women is a fight that each and every one of us must take part in. it is our duty to stand up for women by drawing awareness to this injustice.’ the council has repeatedly expressed its commitment to preventing and eliminating all forms of gender-based violence. we all know that only our joint efforts and a message of unity will help to improve the situation of all women and girls in europe.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, one year ago, the european union signed the istanbul convention, and since then we have seen women’s marches and the ‘#me too’ campaign confirm once again that violence against women is a global issue that continues to affect women and girls in every part of the world. we know that this violence is part of an effort to keep women in their place as lesser citizens and this is unacceptable. the convention is the first legally binding international instrument with enforceable provisions to prevent and combat violence against women. the commission’s intention is to conclude eu accession as soon as possible. since the signature, we have been working intensively with the member states and the council to reach an agreement on a code of conduct that sets out the practical arrangements for implementing the convention. the code should accompany the council’s conclusion decision and describe the division of roles between the eu and the member states in implementing the convention. we have been discussing legal competence issues, as well as issues such as reporting and sharing information. some member states, regretfully, are still reluctant to support eu accession to the convention. let me reiterate again that the eu will accede alongside the member states and will not replace member states. substantial aspects of the convention, such as those related to substantive criminal law, remain under member states’ exclusive competence. however, the advantage is that, if the eu becomes a contracting party in its own name, alongside the member states, certain obligations set out in the convention will be legally binding for the eu’s institutions, bodies and agencies and will therefore protect their staff. for example, the convention requires that staff are protected through the internal rules of the institutions to prohibit violence and harassment in the workplace and provide for procedures and services to support victims and to sanction offenders. the commission is currently in the process of analysing the relevant obligations in the convention, screening the existing internal rules, regulations and practices of all eu institutions, agencies and bodies, and determining whether there are any gaps in the current system. this is a task which will require the full engagement of all european institutions and bodies, and i warmly welcome the european parliament’s cooperation in this regard. unfortunately, achieving eu compliance with these international standards is not enough. despite the fact that all eu member states have signed the convention and that 19 member states have so far ratified it, we see strong opposition against the convention in a few countries. a lot has been said about this convention, some of which is frankly untrue. i would like to be very clear: this convention is about protecting women against violence. nothing more, nothing less. one—in—three women in europe has experienced violence at least once in their life simply because she is a woman, and one—in—three women in europe has experienced either physical and/or sexual violence. this is unacceptable. the istanbul convention is the first binding and comprehensive international instrument in europe that addresses violence against women. it is not about imposing new social standards. it is about banning violence. the misconceptions and misleading arguments voiced in the public debates about the convention need to be confronted. the commission is working on a communication strategy to rebut fears that the convention would challenge conventional family or religious norms or introduce an obligation to allow same-sex marriage or a new refugee status for transgender or intersex persons. i would really like to know in which universe social conventions or religious norms would allow for violence against women. which religion does that? (applause) gender equality is not a quick fix. we all know that. but unless we take concrete steps and move ahead together on this, we won’t achieve the behavioural and cultural shifts that allow change. i say this: i’m a son, i’m a husband, and i’m a father of two girls. i find it completely unacceptable that my mother, my wife or my kids – my girls – would not be better protected against violence. this is a duty shared by men and women. it’s not only up to women to make this happen, and this is a duty we should all take very seriously indeed.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the signature of the eu on the istanbul convention was a historic step to strengthen our tools to prevent violence, combat impunity and protect victims. since then, estonia, cyprus, germany and now croatia have ratified the convention, but 10 member states are missing, including the presidency. i am asking them: how many women have to be harassed, beaten up and killed? how many girls have to be married away, mutilated or trafficked for prostitution before they ratify and enforce? all women and girls should feel free and safe in europe, and no tradition or culture can justify men’s violence against women. the eu accession to the convention strengthens accountability for member states and external action of the eu in promoting women’s rights globally. it is about building a culture of respect for women and girls involving men and boys. the convention not only provides for sanctions, training, support for victims, but also measures to combat stereotypes and sexism. so together today, let’s call on the presidency to put the istanbul convention on the agenda of the european council for as long as it takes, and call on all countries – bulgaria, hungary, slovakia and ukraine – to engage with civil society, with religious leaders, across political parties based on facts. thank you, vice-president for what you said. let’s also call on the commission to open a dialogue on the misleading interpretation of gender in the convention. the convention is not against family – mr president, i’m finishing – it is against violence that is against families. as co-rapporteur of the istanbul convention, i will remain committed to zero tolerance to any violence against women and girls.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. gender-based violence kills. it's reducing the living space and the threat. sexual violence, harassment, intimate partner violence, threats in public places and spaces. the victims are women and girls, but also those with a gender identity or sexuality that is different from the norm, such as lgbtq people. but i think it's even more important to expose who's doing the violence. they're men. we have a kind of toxic masculinity that, at its worst, generates violent men. well, the good news is, it doesn't have to be that way. it's a construct of manhood that doesn't belong in this century, and that we can change. that's what feminism and gender is all about. and in that sense, yes, i welcome many more feminist men who dismiss that kind of masculinity. we who are here today, who are following the process of ratification of the istanbul convention, know what an important tool it is. we know what a valuable political and legal instrument it is, and we will not give up, because this fight is not over until we are all protected from violence against women and girls. we will not give in, we have human rights too.
mr president, i would like to thank you. welcome to the house, prime minister rutte. there are now many citizens around europe who see the eu becoming more powerful and less able to solve big problems, and all of us who point this out are branded as populists and face many other criticisms just for pointing this out. the only solution on the eu side is to increase budgets and fees. the netherlands, like sweden, is already paying far more than it is getting back and has been doing so for many years. now angela merkel is proposing that all net payers pay even more. how can the netherlands, with its 26 members against germany's 96 members, stop this? your people will have to pay for this, among other things, by raising the retirement age in the future. is this what the dutch people want, because it is their cause that you are speaking for as prime minister here today?
mr president, i would like to address the prime minister. prime minister, first i want to join the call from my colleagues for the council to find a solution to the migration issue next week. second, you said we need to regain the trust of citizens. yes. last week, chancellor angela merkel and prime minister kurz took a clear stand: the work of the european parliament should be in one location. don’t you think that, as eu leaders engage in talks on key reforms and on the budget, the time has come to put the issue of the single seat on the european council agenda? are you willing to take a stand and to open a constructive dialogue with your colleagues and with us for a roadmap for treaty change; for a more effective, a less costly, a climate-friendly european parliament close to citizens? you said, prime minister: ‘let’s show the people that we practise what we preach’. are you going to do it? (applause)
in writing. the future of europe is being decided today. europe, with its different cultures and nation states, is what we europeans call home. we have no other home. if this home is demolished or changed beyond recognition by other cultural practices, where will we, our children and grandchildren go? the eu was launched as a solution to strengthen europe through peace, trade and cooperation. instead, it has become a machine that, among other things, tries to force member states to accept huge numbers of illegal migrants, especially economic migrants, often from the most dysfunctional and violent states and cultures in the world. this is fundamentally transforming many of the countries of europe at such a rapid pace that we have lost control. there is no space, time or incentive for the assimilation of these groups and soon no space for the indigenous european cultures. the eu must now stop all migration except for a limited proportion of quota refugees, and stop all expansion of the eu. this is what a majority of europeans want and what is required as a first step if we are to continue to manage the common european cultural heritage as well as the specific national european cultures and to leave prosperous, secure and democratic states as a legacy to our children and grandchildren.
mr president, i visited kiev and maidan in 2014 when the revolution was going on. i remember these people in the audience who were standing in front of the stage longing for peace, stability, democracy and the eu. they were longing to decide their own future by themselves and not have it imposed by some bigger players in the region. four years later we have to say: yes, we have delivered a bit. the agreement between the eu and ukraine is in force. we have the mutual assistance, we have the reform that shows considerable progress in the country, and we have the ukrainian citizens who have been granted visas for short visits to the eu. some things might be better, of course. we have to help ukraine get rid of the occupants in eastern ukraine, in the crimea. but these agreements and the cooperation have made us both stronger, and i believe that this new macro—assistance in ukraine will be a further step on that path.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in recent years, the world has undeniably become much more uncertain, anxious and unpredictable. russian activity in the baltic sea is increasing, aggressions against georgia and eastern ukraine, crimea, have occurred, aggressive actions have been recorded against moldova and armenia and the tone towards us in the nordic countries has changed completely. last year, president putin said that swedish membership of nato would pose a threat to russia. so we swedes are expected to behave and choose our future based on what some other country thinks about it, how it affects some other country. it's incredible. it's actually incredible. on that basis, those who oppose swedish nato membership can no longer claim freedom from the alliance. it's impossible to be non-aligned with russia acting like it does. our troubled world demands that we turn to nato and demand that we provide ourselves with all the security that no one else can provide. we should have no illusions, because illusions in security policy come at a very high price.
mr president, i would like to thank you. talman tajani said earlier that we must find a solution, and quickly, and i agree with him. the solution is not for the eu to help attract more or less migrants to our member states through generous subsidies and residence permits. we should be aware that those who are coming now are up to 99 percent economic migrants who believe that the eu is a big atm. we will not be able to solve this by reforming dublin and this forced redistribution of which they speak. we have been discussing this for years without reaching a solution, and we are now seeing countries, one after another, moving away from this. it's time to change and do the right thing instead. instead of acting as a boat taxi for human traffickers, it is better to look at other solutions. sign a deal with some african country where we can send the migrants back. that way, we counter this by getting them into dangerous boats, and we save lives.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the g7 summit in quebec brought many surprises. one of the biggest was the day after, when we realised that president trump was not signing the final statement. the signal sent to the world was quite clear: the usa stands for protectionism, closeness and isolationism. the question is what the eu answer should be, and i do strongly believe that our answer should be to stand by our beliefs. we do believe in openness, we do believe in trade, we do believe in mobility. these are not just instruments to boost growth; these are also our values we should stand by. and this is exactly what we are doing tomorrow. the vote tomorrow is about 5 500 professions that would be able to move freely in europe. almost 47 million citizens will be affected by that. in most cases they can move from one country to another, but there are still significant barriers. in some countries, you have to live in that country in order to be able to exercise the profession; in other countries, you have to exercise this continuously. i do believe that tomorrow we are not just creating an instrument to boost growth and job mobility; we are actually defining our values. thanks to the rapporteur and thank you to the co-rapporteurs for their very fruitful work. i hope that tomorrow we will have a clear vote on this subject.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for this opportunity to address the situation of europe’s roma, our largest ethnic minority. many roma still face deep poverty, social exclusion and racial discrimination. we have a common duty to ensure decent life chances for all our citizens and we must pay special heed to those who find themselves in the most vulnerable situations. this is a topic that goes to the heart of our common european values. equal treatment and equal opportunities should be enjoyed by all of us. sadly, in europe, in the 21st century, this is not yet the case. it has already been seven years since the council, the commission and parliament joined their voices to call for action to improve the situation of the roma. back in 2011, we launched the eu framework for national roma integration strategies. parliament and the commission took the first steps and i’m glad to recall that the council swiftly endorsed the framework and the european council called for its rapid implementation. the member states duly prepared their national strategies and began putting the framework into practice. i’m also happy to note that, in its mid-term report published last year, the commission was able to confirm the added value of the framework. it is particularly encouraging to read that the participation of roma children in early childhood education is on the rise and that poverty is falling. there are definite signs that the implementation of the framework is bearing fruit. but let us be honest, we have not yet managed to end the discrimination, the deep poverty and the long-term disadvantages that have weighed on roma communities. there is no room for complacency. if anything, we must redouble the efforts to put things right and to offer the same life chances to all citizens, regardless of their ethnic origin. this is why the bulgarian presidency has put an important emphasis on issues at the heart of advancing the agenda in this area. the council is expected to adopt a set of conclusions on the early childhood development later this month. the focus has been put on promoting and protecting children’s rights, combating child poverty and social exclusion and providing all children with equal opportunities, irrespective of their social, cultural, ethnic or other backgrounds. member states should continue to provide multi-disciplinary support to children and families from disadvantaged backgrounds, such as roma children. investing in early childhood education and care is of high importance, not only for reducing inequalities at a young age, but also for preventing the risk of poverty and exclusion in adulthood by laying the foundations for successful lifelong learning, social integration and employability. the european parliament has worked tirelessly to keep this topic on the agenda. in matters where our common values are clearly spelt out in the treaty yet union competences are limited, strong political voices are needed to motivate us and to move us forward, so i thank you for helping us to keep the momentum. the framework focuses on four main areas: education, housing, health and jobs. these are the matters we must address. no one in europe should be denied the basic prerequisites for a decent life. the council has also made the point that racial discrimination is unacceptable because it is also a root cause of the social exclusion of the roma. may i also highlight just three other key issues. the council has repeatedly stressed the importance of the gender dimension in this context and the need for gender-sensitive approaches. the council also strongly believes that the roma themselves should be allowed to participate in planning and implementing policies that concern them. finally, we need an emphasis on the local level. it is the people on the ground who can make the greatest differences. none of this is controversial. i believe there is a broad agreement between our institutions on the approach we should take. the tools and the strategic insights are already here. a strong and sustained political commitment is needed, along with more forceful implementation. the eu institutions have been playing a leading role in the campaign for roma inclusion for some years now. this is most welcome. it’s making a difference. cooperation and funding at eu level can contribute significantly. the framework we established in 2011 is due to expire in 2020. it is painful to admit that ten years have not been enough to significantly improve the situation of europe’s roma. to make greater strides, we need both a sense of urgency and a long-term vision. for this reason, in 2016, the council called on the commission to propose a post-2020 strategy on roma integration and the council stands ready to work further on these vital subjects. i know parliament will be a faithful ally in this process.
member of the commission. – mr president, the debate on this topic is a timely contribution to the commission’s ongoing evaluation of the eu framework for national roma integration strategies. we will publish the evaluation by the end of this year. it will analyse the achievements and challenges of the framework. these could then be the basis for reflections about possible policy suggestions for the post-2020 period. without prejudging the outcome of this process, it is already clear that we have not undone centuries of discrimination in the few years since the launch of the framework in 2011. however, we can see the first signs of progress in some areas, like education. fewer roma youths leave school early, dropping from 87% in 2011 to 68% in 2016. more roma children participate in early childhood education, rising from 47% in 2011 to 53% in 2016. another important achievement is the development of necessary coordination and cooperation structures, such as national roma contact points in all member states and the annual european platform for roma inclusion. the most important overarching challenge is the limited impact on improving the present situation of roma. in several areas, there is still much to do. less, although still way too many roma are at risk of poverty: 86% in 2011 and 80% in 2016. extreme forms of poverty such as hunger decreased slightly, but remain alarmingly high. less, but still too many roma have experienced discrimination when looking for work in the past five years. in some aspects, the situation of roma even worsened in past years. segregation in education has persisted and even deteriorated. the roma employment stagnates at low levels – 25% – and the rate of roma youths not in education or in employment or training grew from 56% to 63%. the housing situation of the roma remains deplorable. sadly, strong external factors such as the economic crisis, competing political priorities and the rise of anti-gypsyism and nationalistic populist political movements have contributed to limit the progress. however, the commission will strive to make the situation of roma in europe better, in concert with the member states, which maintain the key competences in this area.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i want to start by thanking the commission for launching the eu framework for national roma integration strategies in 2011. due to this, the member states now have their national strategies and there are programmes and funds aimed at fighting anti-gypsyism in its various forms. although we are far from seeing the much-needed improvement in the lives of roma in europe, there has been some progress. now we need to up-scale the efforts following the clear and strong position of the european parliament. this position was based on the concrete demands and proposals in the report entitled ‘fundamental rights aspects in roma integration in the eu: fighting anti-gypsyism’ adopted by a threefold majority last year. in addition to addressing social inclusion, we need to situate anti-gypsyism in the focus of the post-2020 eu framework and to introduce anti-discrimination indicators in all fields. we need to set specific deadlines for measurable goals. there should be consultations with roma representatives to avoid the creation of discriminatory programmes, or programmes that do not reach out to the roma. we need close monitoring in order to identify quickly which actions can improve the situation on the ground and which do not. i therefore ask the commission and the upcoming presidencies to keep the fight against anti-gypsyism on their agenda and support the continuation of the eu framework. the 10 million roma in europe must be equally entitled to enjoy the rights and opportunities established by our treaties. their situation depends on the continuation of the framework. last year we heard some hate speech, so let me just finish by expressing my hope that, during this debate, our colleagues will refrain from using hate speech.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we sometimes forget that the eu was actually built on values such as tolerance and equality. today too, all eu citizens must have the same opportunities for education, free movement, health care, social rights and everything else, but unfortunately the situation in far too many member states is unacceptable. minorities are subject to discrimination and hate crimes, and roma in particular are subject to systematic discrimination, prejudice, marginalisation and exclusion across the eu. in fact, there are places in the eu where roma do not even have access to clean water and where 80 percent of all roma are reported to live in poverty. where children don't get vaccinated against diseases we thought we had eradicated long ago. in fact, roma have lived in the eu for over 700 years. it was called europe then, it is now called the eu. their culture and history are an important part of our historical heritage. despite steps in the right direction, such as the 2020 strategy, more rapid action and greater efforts by all member states are needed to end the systematic, widespread and unacceptable discrimination. i would like to highlight the soraya post own-initiative report from last autumn, which stresses the importance of education about roma history and culture and greater efforts to end social exclusion. all human beings have the right to a life of dignity and the right to choose their lives and shape their futures. we must therefore now demand that the member states step up their efforts to integrate the roma and thus put an end to prejudice, discrimination and marginalisation. only then can we build a strong europe to face the future.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is clear that, despite the roma integration strategies, there is still a long way to go to reach an acceptable level across the eu. it would probably take a big marshall plan to get it all the way, because centuries of discrimination don't disappear in just a few years of active work. we greens have previously suggested that a more specific eu strategy for roma integration is needed to speed up the implementation of national strategies and to deal with cross-border issues. this speaks volumes about the pace of national strategies, as many roma find it easier to support themselves and their families by travelling to other eu countries, where they often live in tent camps and beg in front of food shops despite minus 20 degrees, than by being given the opportunity to find work at home. the free movement of people is of course a right of all eu citizens, and yet there are voices, for example in my own country, calling for a ban on begging. that's not how we solve our problems. an eu strategy would be needed to address countries that do not implement their national strategies and other legal frameworks, and to ensure that the rights of eu migrants are guaranteed when they exercise their right to free movement.
mr president, i would like to thank you. despite the fact that we have an eu framework for national roma rights strategies, and despite the fact that member states have had their own national roma integration strategies since 2012, little has changed for the better so far. europe's roma are still extremely marginalised. they are subject to prejudice and discrimination and do not always have access to basic rights. anti-gypsyism is widespread and more socially accepted than other forms of racism. this is devastating both for the roma's living conditions and for their trust in society. we cannot let this continue; we must do more. of course, the commission cannot bear responsibility alone; it is in our member states that change must take place, but the commission has a very important responsibility to monitor and review the actual implementation of the member states' strategies. unfortunately, there are some flaws here that need to be addressed. the best thing we can do now is to continue work on the eu framework for national roma integration strategies. without pressure from you, commissioner, and the others in the commission, i do not think that national governments will give priority to the issue or do what is necessary, so we ask you to continue to press the member states on roma rights, preferably with a roma strategy.
blue-card question. – mr president, i am happy that member states are doing their best, but do you really mean, monika, that the slovak government is doing their best when they are creating walls and when they are creating segregated schools for roma children? is that the way to do integration? you have to ask that. you also had a sanction from the commission because of the segregated schools.
author. – mr president, in the name of my committee, the committee on petitions, i have the pleasure of presenting the oral question to both the council and the commission on improving language learning and the mutual recognition of language competences in the european union. in my committee, we have received a number of petitions asking to improve language learning and the mutual recognition of language competences in the european union. the petitioners claim that the existing differences in the teaching, evaluation and recognition of language skills in different member states undermine the freedom of movement, which is very serious. they also claim that it discriminates against children in school whose mother tongue is one of the smaller languages of the 24 official languages of the european union. my committee decided therefore to table this oral question to both the council and the commission on this issue, and both these questions were unanimously – and i underline, unanimously – adopted by the committee on petitions. according to article 165 of the treaty, member states are exclusively competent for the content and the organisation of education and training systems. so in this sense, the offer of languages for secondary school exams is the decision of the member state’s ministry of education on the organisation of their educational system. however, proficiency in very much more than only one language is considered essential to strengthen employability within the european union. it is also a critical key competence for active citizenship. the eu therefore supports and supplements the actions of the member states, with the aim to improve the efficiency of language teaching and learning. the oral questions to the institutions therefore tabled by my committee are in line with the commission’s initiative on the creation of the european education agenda. i’m proud of that. we are completely (inaudible) within that scope, and in particular the concerned package of measures presented by the commission in may this year suggesting, among other things, a council recommendation for improving language learning. the committee on petitions wanted to have a debate on these oral questions in this plenary, taking into account the adoption by plenary of the own initiative report by the cultural committee on modernisation of education in the european union. the eu has long promoted language learning with an aim to increase mutual understanding and mobility, this by supporting supplementing actions and cooperation between national educational systems. parliament is taking serious note of these petitions that we have received, in which eu citizens do raise their severe concerns about the lack of teaching and recognition of language skills in their mother tongue. every eu citizen should be able to take advantage of their freedom to live in a member state other than his or her own, and unfortunately this problem is today making it difficult to do so. therefore, we ask and call upon the council and the commission to elaborate on the following issues – and i have them, there are four: firstly, what actions have you taken to support member states in order to improve the mutual recognition of language competences in all the official eu languages, based on the levels existing under the common european framework of reference for languages? secondly, how does the council and the commission assess the added value of teaching official eu languages and particularly the recommendation for ‘mother tongue plus two’ in the context of modernisation of education in the eu, and more particularly for stimulating entrepreneurship, job opportunities and preservation of cultural diversities within the european union? thirdly, does the council and the commission have recent and accurate data available concerning language assessment opportunities and the recognition of language exams, diplomas or certificates in the official eu languages other than english, french, german, spanish and italian – the big five? how can the european union further support educational institutions that do provide classes in the official eu languages for eu citizens living in a member state other than their own? and lastly, what measures does the council and the commission intend to put in place in the european education area to develop an online system for the cross-border recognition and validation of eu language certificates for the purposes of school-leaving diplomas in order to facilitate accessibility to higher education across the eu? those are our four questions. they conclude my committee’s oral question to the two institutions.
member of the commission. – madam president, first, as a general message, let me convey to you that the european commission is still committed to fight corruption and corruption activities and wrong-doings at european level. let me reflect on the probably three most frequently asked questions during the debate. the first was on the self-standing eu anti-corruption report. while the eu anti-corruption report provided a useful overview of the situation, streamlined coverage in the european semester of economic governance, which is the main economic policy dialogue between the member states and the european union institutions, appears to be an equally efficient way to address the matter and is in line with the general approach of this commission to streamline processes and focus on key issues in the relevant fora. others raised the question about olaf activities and the fight against corruption at a practical level. let me say that the olaf management will enter into detail of their achievements for the year, where i am pleased to see the office has once again delivered tangible results for taxpayers. 197 investigations concluded, over 300 recommendations issued and significant recoveries recommended to the eu budget, stemming in particular from the conclusion of major under-valuation fraud cases. the money we get back in this context can be used to serve european citizens and to promote growth and jobs. olaf was also able to further reduce the duration of its investigation to 17.6 months on average, despite its limited resources. this speaks for the commitment of olaf staff to getting the job done. in 2017, olaf activities brought a significant contribution to protecting the revenue side of the eu budget, with a string of large cases concerning the under-valuation of goods at import. this is important work; any gaps in the legislative setting or operational capacity of customs administrations to function across borders are quickly exploited by organised criminal groups. in this context, due to its ability to operate transnationally and to gather and share information, olaf plays a crucial role in preventing and tackling revenue fraud, as well as in assisting national customs administrations in their challenging work. last but not least, the european commission’s participation in uncac. the review of implementation of the united nations convention on anti-corruption (uncac) plays an important role in the global fight against corruption. the review helps us assess where we stand globally and what gaps need to be addressed. while being fully committed and active in fighting corruption at eu and global level, the european union is in the process of assessing the full extent of the modifications of the union’s competence with regard to all the matters governed by uncac after entry into force of the lisbon treaty. one aspect that needs to be kept in mind is that the convention is binding on all eu institutions, and therefore the scope of the uncac review would not be limited to the commission but would extend to the other institutions as well.
author. – madam president, it is about time that we in the eu and the international community raised our voice and supported economically and morally the courage of russian human rights defenders who work tirelessly for democracy and justice in the shadow of putin’s propaganda machine. also now, during the world cup, we will speak out loudly and show that we clearly condemn the state propaganda and repressive laws that undermine russian civil society. human rights organisations are labelled as spies if they receive funding from abroad, and one person was convicted under the so-called gay propaganda law for sharing an article from ‘the guardian’ on facebook. these are two examples of the serious situation of human rights in russia right now. we must support, including financially, the democratic work in russia. it is only through free and democratic societies that stand firm on the fulfilment of human rights that we will build long-term security in europe and in the world.
mr president, oleg sentsov opposed russian annexation of crimea. he was active in the maidan revolution and helped deliver food to the ukrainian servicemen blocked in their crimean bases during the deadlock imposed by russia. mr sentsov is a man who exercised nothing more than his freedom of expression and his freedom of thought. that can send you all the way to jail in russia. he was tried in a military court, and his trial had numerous grave procedural violations. he’s now serving his jail sentence in labytnangi, that is to say 7 000 kilometres from here in the far north of russia. for what? well because he publicly opposed president putin. i urge the russian federation to do the only thing possible – to immediately release mr sentsov and to respect its international commitments. this should be done immediately.
author. – mr president, it is time for the government of bahrain to free nabeel rajab. he is in prison right now simply for standing up for human rights. nabeel rajab is one of many human rights defenders, political activists, opposition leaders and journalists that the authorities have unjustly imprisoned in the past years as the human rights situation has got increasingly worse, including for female human rights defenders. it is time for the eu to act and react. i am also very concerned by the dramatic increase in the use of the death penalty and the new laws allowing civilians to be tried in military courts. we call on bahrain immediately and unconditionally to release nabeel rajab, as well as abdulhadi al-khawaja and all imprisoned human rights defenders, and stop the use of the death penalty.
author. – mr president, i have seen the devastating situation in cox’s baazar, the world’s largest refugee camp, where 1.2 million rohingya refugees are seeking protection from ethnic cleansing in myanmar. the majority are women who have fled along with their children, many being victims of violence and sexual assaults. not only do these children lack food, clean water, health care, trauma therapy, education and security, but they are also victims of trafficking, violence, sexual exploitation and child marriage. during the monsoon season, they will also be at high risk of deadly disease outbreaks and landslides. the international community has to place the personal safety of every individual on the top of their security agendas. to keep these women and children safe, and to put pressure on myanmar to end the persecution of the rohingya, there is a need for an independent investigation.
madam president, in august it will be ten years since russia’s aggression towards georgia. we all know what happened then. lives were claimed; russia seized part of georgia’s territory; many became internally-displaced persons. and now, ten years after the conflict, there is still only limited hope that we will soon reach an agreement and a resolution to that conflict. quite the opposite: russia continues contracting new bases, bringing in new troops, putting fences and barbed wire across new parts of the region, and we let it happen. the eu should never forget georgia, because what is at stake is the belief that the international community should respect the territorial integrity of all states and should respect international law. this is why the eu must do the utmost to urge russia to implement its commitments undertaken under the six-point peace plan and stop violating the sovereignty of georgia.
mr president, the eu’s general affairs council decided last week that albania and northern macedonia cannot start association negotiations but it will, maybe, open them in june next year. both countries have fulfilled their conditions. northern macedonia and greece have found – after 27 years – a solution to the name issues, and albania has made significant progress in almost all areas. still, when these countries need our support our answer is: maybe, in the future the countries are too corrupt, well we will see. what happened when we need them? then, suddenly, there are no problems! the same countries that were blocking the association negotiations are now suddenly talking about albania helping them build these refugee camps that nobody wants to build. suddenly we don’t have any problem with giving them millions of euros for building these refugee camps and everything is perfect. this is nothing more than hypocrisy. we are letting these countries down when they need us, and we use their weak position when we need them. it is shameful. western balkan countries have to open their negotiations right now, otherwise we will be nothing more than hypocrites.
madam president, well, the council meeting last week was clearly disappointing in many ways. asylum and migration were put at the top of the agenda but there was no achievement at the end of the day. let me be clear: there is no migration crisis today, but there is a crisis – a crisis of lack of political leadership, lack of vision, lack of commitment. so there is a political crisis after the migration crisis, that is very clear. instead of an agreement on a resilient asylum policy that would truly resolve the situation in the european union, the council decision, is focusing on the externalisation of our responsibilities to third countries. let me ask you what makes you believe that that which we, as 28 eu member states, cannot resolve together could be better resolved by, tunisia, morocco or albania? the austrian presidency’s responsibility will be to be an honest broker and to start to work towards a truly european solution, towards an asylum policy that is not in place today. we owe it to our citizens and – we need only look at the eurobarometer – we need to deliver on it. the price of not delivering is far too high.
madam president, i would like to thank you. and now i've seen this happen so many times, i have to say something about it. you in the front row: mr verhofstadt, mr lamberts, mr weber, mr bullmann, all of you in the front row, what do you think gives you the right to steal speaking time from your colleagues in this house? is it because you feel that you are more important and bigger or is it simply that your ego has become so inflated that you completely ignore your fellow members of the house and think you can behave exactly as you wish? it's a shame what you're doing. and you should address it from the bureau, because it's too bad what's going on. and now i turn to chancellor kurz: welcome to the chamber, chancellor kurz. to the circus at the house of europe. you see how things work in here, and i am extremely grateful that you are coming in with a national presidency. finally, a presidency with sound values, a presidency that does not suffer from the stigma of political correctness, i look forward to your presidency.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the eu's downfall is likely to be the lack of action to stem the flow of economic migrants pouring into our member states. at the same time, i am positive that the word 'voluntary' is now being used at the highest level of the eu. the redistribution of migrants has been discussed and tried for a long time, but then with force. now, countries are going to have to decide this themselves, and of course, most countries are not going to take in migrants. however, it took far too long to see this and the result is that we have a large group of migrants who now need help to return to their home countries. the fact that there is now discussion of setting up camps in third countries where economic migrants are separated from genuine refugees is a step in the right direction. as i have said before in this house, europe must use a solution similar to that adopted by australia. these measures ensure law and order in europe, the well-being of our citizens and the saving of thousands of lives in the mediterranean. in addition, in the extension of the period when order is restored, countries like sweden can spend part of the huge budget that is currently predominantly spent on illegal economic migrants instead of helping people in need on the spot in their home countries or in nearby areas. but time is short and until that decision is made, the flow of migrants will continue and the problems within the eu will grow. (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, there is a tendency here to say that if we don’t solve the problems that we are facing, the union has failed. i think that is totally the wrong approach, for it is a way of underestimating the problems and challenges which we are facing and which, in many cases, are not of the kind that you can solve by a political decision today or tomorrow. we need to deal with them, and the only way to deal with them in a proper way is to stand together. that goes for the migration issue. it wouldn’t be easier if member states were on their own. that would not be feasible at all. but together we can do it, if only step by step. and it is also true when we look at the more fundamental threats which we are facing from aggressive russia or state capitalistic china, or which stem from the fact that we have a president in the united states who is unreliable. we need to stand strong – strong in security, strong in cooperation – and not see every political conflict as some sort of dividing line. the right thing to do is to make us as strong together as possible and to see the threats to our democracy and our open society.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? we are at a crossroads, should road transport in the eu be exempted from the fairest conditions for workers that we operate in other areas? do heavy-duty truck drivers have more endurance than everyone else? of course not. i'm not going to. we cannot have an eu where a race to the bottom with depressed prices, undignified working environments and dumped wages is the norm. at the same time, we must ensure the safety of drivers and all those on the roads. that they are not put before individual companies that want to exploit people to drive for weeks at a time, living in their lorries, without a reasonable rest: we cannot have that. and so would my friend and colleague, the recently deceased member of the european parliament, jens nilsson, have said if he had been here: we cannot have that.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, usually in the field of migration we are asking the commission for new or revised legislation, but in this case we have a directive, the facilitation directive, which is being applied differently in different member states and therefore what we need from the commission is guidelines. of course, a regulation instead of a directive could help but, judging from recent experience with the asylum package, adopting a new regulation would take a very long time and we need to act much more rapidly on this. what is at stake? well, this concerns the directive that affects citizens who are helping other human beings and providing humanitarian assistance at sea – and who can end up being charged with criminal activities. i chair the committee on petitions and we have received a number of petitions on this. i would argue that we need to do more so that we manage migration properly in the union, but until this becomes the case we should not punish citizens for doing what every human being should do when they meet people in distress, at risk of losing their lives at sea. so we need the commission, now, to provide guidelines to member states to ensure once and for all that real humanitarian assistance is not, and will never be, a criminal act in the european union.
mr president, i would like to say to the prime minister that for me as a swede the emergence of poland as a free and democratic country, with the economic reforms of the 1990s and the achievements in this decade, belongs to one of the most impressive things in european development. we got a new neighbour, a new friend and a new partner in the middle and the centre of european development. and i would like to underline to you, mr prime minister, that the debate here is not about poland—bashing. we love poland. we want poland to be there but the european union is a union of laws, and if you are undermining the rule of law you are undermining trust, and you are undermining our strength for the future. can you promise that you will follow the verdicts of the venice commission, the european court of justice and all the legal institutions that we have together? (applause)
madam president, there is no other way to prosperity than through growth and competitiveness. as politicians, we cannot decide on the levels of prosperity, but we can create the preconditions. the main problem is that far too many have believed that you can decide on incomes and welfare. far too many believed that if you spend more money than you have, in the end you will have more money than you had. that was the road map to austerity because if you spend more money than you have, in the end, you will have no money and you will have no one loaning you the money. what we see today is an achievement for the greek people, who should be congratulated on that, but let’s remember that it is because of the implemented reforms regarding budgets and structures that we can see these developments. budget reforms and structural reforms that were rejected by successive governments in greece, not least the present government, which threw the country once again into a deeper crisis than it was in before, in the belief that you could spend yourself out of the crisis. in the future, it must be the main task of the commission to ensure that the stability and growth pact is respected. the way to deal with problems in the economy is about reforming and consolidating public spending. it must be learned that we can never achieve anything without ensuring that we have the competitiveness, the growth, the entrepreneurship and the investments that are needed for growth. they can only be created in the respective member states. the responsibility always lies with the member states, not with the eu, which financed them with loans, and not on the euro, which is a currency, but on the need for reforms. let’s make this the big lesson from today: you can change direction, but you need to implement reforms.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you for the opportunity to speak here today. of course, as you will understand, it is not for the presidency to comment on public statements made by individual ministers in member states. instead, i would like to build on what the bulgarian presidency said when you discussed the situation of the roma at your last session. firstly, i would like to recall that equality is a core value of the european union and that it is a value we rigidly uphold. it is part of the european pillar of social rights jointly proclaimed by parliament, the council and the commission at the end of last year. in our joint proclamation, we once again committed ourselves to the principle of equal treatment and opportunity, regardless of racial or ethnic origin. we also stated that equal opportunities for under-represented groups would be fostered. allow me to add a personal note to this discussion as i am politically responsible for the mauthausen memorial, the former concentration camp in austria where approximately 100 000 people were killed during the second world war. most of them were jews but there were also homosexuals, people who opposed and fought against the nazi regime and roma and sinti. it is essential, especially in the commemorative year which we are celebrating in austria in 2018, to uphold this memory but it is not less important tirelessly to seek equal rights for all these groups. we all know that many roma in europe face deep poverty, social exclusion and racial discrimination and we know we must do more to put this right. i am sure we all agree on one thing: a europe that protects should especially protect those who find themselves in the most vulnerable situations. in this spirit, seven years ago, the council, the commission and parliament jointly called for action across europe to improve the situation of roma. we successfully launched an eu framework for national roma integration strategies. as part of this drive to improve the life chances of some of our most vulnerable citizens, the council, like parliament, has strongly emphasised the importance of fighting discrimination and prejudice against roma – a specific form of racism known as anti-gypsyism. anti-gypsyism is a root cause of the social exclusion of roma. i would also like to take this opportunity to recall the council’s position on hate speech, racism and the fight against discrimination. on several occasions the council has invited member states to ensure the effective transposition and implementation at national level of the framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia, as well as other relevant hate crime laws, in order to counter the plague of hate crime. in addition, the council has asked member states to develop effective methods to report, and ensure the proper recording of, hate crimes. moreover, the council supports the ambitious plans of the commission high-level group seeking to develop, with member states, concrete practices and tools to improve responses to racism, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance. we also welcome and support the ongoing eu-level dialogue with major it companies to address hate speech online. last, but not least, we should remember and commend the remarkable work done by the fundamental rights agency in this field, and concerning roma in particular. equal treatment is not just an ideal but a solid principle enshrined in european law. the council has already adopted a directive that prohibits discrimination on grounds of racial or ethnic origin. this directive protects, inter alia, the rights of roma, europe’s largest ethnic minority. the framework we established in 2011 is due to expire in 2020. the council stands ready to work further on this important subject. already, in 2006, the council called on the commission to propose a post-2020 strategy on roma integration. the matter is urgent: the rights and wellbeing of millions of european citizens are at stake.
member of the commission. – madam president, in 2011 the commission adopted the eu framework for a national roma integration strategy up to 2020. this came at a time when the roma people were facing a series of threats and pressures and, in response to the council, i can confirm that we are now working on the evaluation of this framework, with the aim of preparing the ground for the new strategy after 2020. but back to today’s reality. it is regrettable to see that, seven years later, similar issues are re-entering public discourse in some member states. the commission has always made it clear that the fundamental rights of eu citizens, including free movement and non-discrimination on grounds of ethnicity, must be respected. respect for fundamental rights is a key european achievement which both promotes and gives concrete expression to mutual understanding, openness and tolerance in european societies. while all eu citizens have the right to move and reside freely within the eu, this must be done within the conditions and limitations set out in eu law. as regards stateless persons, member states are bound by obligations under international law. in particular, the 1954 convention relating to the status of stateless persons and the 1961 convention on the reduction of statelessness. however, not all the member states of the european union are signatories of these conventions. under the eu treaties, for migration and border-control purposes, stateless people are considered as third-country nationals, and expulsion of stateless persons to third countries is possible only if carried out in line with eu law as set out in the return directive. this directive is applicable to all third-country nationals, for instance all persons who are not eu citizens staying illegally on the territory of an eu member state. where challenges arise because the presence of marginalised roma communities is placing particular strains on some localities, the commission supports the efforts of local authorities to improve their social inclusion by promoting good practices and also, of course, the effective use of available eu funds. in its latest assessment of the implementation of italy’s national roma integration strategy, the commission emphasised that addressing the issue of camps should be carried out within an integrated approach, fully respecting individual rights and freedoms, and addressing simultaneously the challenges in the areas of education, employment and health. it is evident that member states have to be reminded of their commitment made in 2011 when the eu framework was adopted by consensus in the council. more importantly, it must be clear that inclusion cannot be achieved by denying people’s fundamental rights and violating human dignity. the commission condemns all manifestations of racism and xenophobia, as these phenomena are incompatible with the values and principles on which the european union is based. statements associating anti-social behaviour or criminality with people of a certain ethnic origin or nationality are stigmatising and totally unacceptable. they fuel racism and xenophobia, they can contribute to the spread of intolerance in society and they are therefore very damaging. public authorities must distance themselves from, and actively rebut, such discourses targeting roma, and proactively fight against racist and xenophobic behaviour.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, lívia járóka really surprised me in a negative way; i will not comment on that anymore, but really! salvini has shown us what we can expect from a populist and far-right government: absolutely no respect for either national or european law. such governments say no to people in need and leave them to die in the sea. such governments want to register roma people so that they can deport them. such governments attack, criminalise and exclude those who do not fit into their racially dictated boxes. such governments use our democratic tools to crash our jointly-built democracy, our commonly set european values, which we have worked on together for decades. such governments incite fear, hatred, anger, and make innocent people scapegoats and treat them as criminals. we have already seen the horrific consequences of such political groups gaining ground in europe, but it seems that our european memory is very short. fellow citizens, we are at the crossroads. we have to decide if we want to keep an open, democratic society, or if we want to live in a europe of growing intolerance and racism. the choice is yours, and it is one with far-reaching consequences. and to those politicians feeding hatred, intolerance and fear in order to get votes and gain power: what are you? i say, shame on you! finally, let me use this opportunity to raise my voice for those roma people who have been targeted, injured or killed by far-right groups in ukraine recently. colleagues, the reality is that there are pogroms in europe in 2018. i urge president poroshenko and the ukrainian government to condemn the recent horrific acts of violence and killings, and to condemn police negligence. i demand a proper investigation of the cases, fair legal procedures, and i demand measures aiming at roma inclusion and countering anti—gypsyism. and to end my intervention, i ask you nationalists, the far-right, to act as human beings and to stop hunting roma as if they were animals. (applause)
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. to be honest, madam president, i am frightened when i hear salvini's statement about the roma, and i ask myself two things. first of all: where's his humanity gone? and second of all: where is italy heading? italy was one of the founding countries of the european union, a union built on the fundamental values of tolerance and freedom. we cannot accept salvini's statement that roma should be registered in illegal registers, it goes against democratic principles and brings the idea back to history, the days of fascism. that's how the roman holocaust once started, too. we must reject this statement here and now. the systematic discrimination, marginalisation and special treatment of roma must end. european citizens shall not be registered or deported on the grounds of their ethnicity. it is appalling that we have witnessed today such a flagrantly insulting statement by an italian minister of the interior, who has also been a member of this house for a number of years. the xenophobic, undemocratic developments in italy of recent times are a major step in the wrong direction. i would like to remind salvini and all those like him on this day who threaten and incite against roma and other minorities that every human being, no matter who you are and where you come from, is a human being and has the right to be treated with dignity and respect. it is a lesson this house must impress - literally - upon those who question these rights.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like the president to add to the record that she used discriminatory, xenophobic language. it is not permitted in this chamber. this is the heart of democracy in europe, so shut up!
madam president, i would like to thank you. we live in a time when deeply-rooted international and shared values are being challenged: the un declaration of human rights, the european convention, the eu treaty and the charter of fundamental rights. our common values are increasingly being overridden by selfishness, nationalism and populism. and it is a populism that has been there for a long time, like a cave in the sky, and that we have not taken seriously enough, but which in europe in recent years has exploded in scale and has found its way into governments and parliaments. but if the union is no longer based on common values and the rule of law, what is the cohesive framework? if we allow member states to violate human rights and minority rights without anyone reacting and putting a stop to it, our violations of international and domestic rules will become the norm and become the new norm, and then we might as well abolish article 2 of the treaty. and what do we have left? and it was with great sadness that i read the statement of the italian minister of the interior on roma the other day. citizenship does not distinguish between the majority group and the minority group, we all have the same rights and obligations. yet, roma are treated differently everywhere. for example, in one municipality in sweden, the police kept a register of roma for law enforcement purposes until it was discovered that the register registered all roma - children, adults and elderly - solely on the basis that they were roma, in complete contravention of our regulations. and salvini is not the only politician either. in the swedish parliament today we have a deputy speaker from a far-right party who believes that jews and sami from sweden are not swedes. if we who believe in the equality of human beings, our shared basic values, stand back and allow the populists to take over the democratic conversation, it looks very dark for europe.
the committee on employment and social affairs has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? thank you for giving us the opportunity to have this debate. i am also glad that commissioner oettinger mentioned the issue of unemployment, particularly among young europeans, in the introduction. for the committee on employment and social affairs, it is obvious that this is our main issue. young people should not be unemployed, and if they are, it should be for as short a time as possible. for us it is about the future of all the member states, that young people are not thrown into despair and that they are not used and that they do not even get an education that will perhaps give them the opportunity to enter the labour market. we believe that this is something that can also be achieved by reallocating funds within the budget. we have a very clear proposal in which we believe that we should launch an emergency plan on the eu side to combat youth unemployment, which would complement other measures already in place, and we want to allocate eur 500 million to this. each euro counts, and preferably through redistribution, not necessarily through money but through priorities.
author. – madam president, in 2010, the united states, which is the only democratic country in the world to have adopted citizenship—based taxation, enacted the foreign account tax compliance act (fatca), which is an extraterritorial law aimed at preventing tax evasion, through offshore accounts, by us citizens and residents. as part of the global efforts to fight corruption, cross—border tax fraud and tax evasion, eu member states have concluded bilateral intergovernmental agreements with the usa in order to implement fatca, obliging european financial institutions to report to the us tax authorities all the holdings of their customers who are so—called ‘us persons’. i would like to emphasise that the committee on petitions and the parliament strongly support tax transparency and all the efforts being made to fight tax fraud. however, more than eight years after fatca’s adoption, while unilateralism and protectionism unfortunately appear to be the cornerstones of us foreign policy, it is now high time to assess the extraterritorial effects of fatca on thousands and thousands of law-abiding eu citizens and their families. therefore, in 2016, a collective of european citizens from nine different member states submitted a petition to parliament, to my committee, alerting us via the committee about the impact of fatca, and its implementing intergovernmental agreements, on european citizens. they testified to the violation of various fundamental principles of eu law, including the right to respect for private life, the prohibition of discrimination, and data protection rules, as well as the eu payment accounts directive. all this was brought to our attention and, to tell you the truth, it was shocking. in practice, fatca has affected a large number of citizens in europe, such as citizens who are nationals of both the usa and an eu member state and, in particular, the so—called ‘accidental americans’ who, by accident of birth, inherited us citizenship but who maintain no ties at all to the usa, never having lived, worked or studied there, and do not hold us social security numbers. they are, in many cases, completely unaware that they are us citizens. fatca requires foreign financial institutions to search for us persons by looking at a variety of indicators, including indicators of power of attorney over the account of a us person with a us address, against which the individual is required to prove that he or she is not a us person. because non—compliance with the requirement imposed results in heavy fines for financial institutions, many of them in the eu have responded by avoiding all commercial business with customers presenting any us connection, whether actual or not. this appears to be in breach of the payment accounts directive and the right of all eu citizens to have access, without discrimination, to a payment account with basic features. in addition, financial institutions have to disclose detailed information on accounts held by presumed so—called us persons to the us internal revenue service via their national governments. this – and i am eager to convey this message to the commission this evening – could constitute a breach of eu data protection rules and eu fundamental rights and, therefore, it requires further investigation. the lives and livelihoods of thousands of citizens in the eu are at stake here. those falling within the definition of us persons have their savings accounts frozen, they have no access to banking services, including life insurance, pensions and mortgages due to the reluctance of financial institutions to follow the fatca reporting. their family members are also affected. these issues need to be addressed at eu level, all together. commissioner, it is now high time that the commission took appropriate action to protect the rights of the european citizens affected, in particular the so-called ‘accidental americans’. i wonder how the commission and the council intend to include the situation of accidental americans in your transposition assessment of the payment accounts directive. more generally, a full impact assessment of fatca on eu citizens is badly needed now to determine whether a serious discrepancy exists between eu citizens and residents in different member states with regard to data protection. last, but not least, a common eu approach, and in particular an eu-us agreement on fatca, could in fact prove to be more effective in ensuring reciprocity and upholding the fundamental principles of eu law. i very much look forward to hearing from both the commission and the council on the diplomatic and legislative steps that you are considering in order to protect the rights and interests of the eu citizens concerned against the effects of fatca.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. as mr tannock says, somalia is making some progress towards more democracy, but the road is very long and is affected by a number of factors. for example, after years of drought, the recent hailstorm has forced 130,000 people to leave their homes. it's estimated that half of them are children. before that, 2.6 million people had already been affected by the drought and conflict. the dadaab camp in kenya is home to 350,000 people whom the kenyan people would like to see returned to their country, because the international community is not providing adequate support. many somalis have also sought refuge in europe. but to solve problems, you have to go to the root causes. the main causes are decades of conflict and poverty, and both reinforce each other. climate change, which leads to droughts and floods, is an increasingly contributing factor. climate change has been a clear element for many years, but it is overshadowed by other more direct and visible problems. another major problem is impunity, and we therefore welcome the establishment of an independent national human rights commission. we expect all violations to be investigated and the perpetrators brought to justice.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the people of burundi have experienced a huge crisis in recent years. not only have we seen worrying changes to the country’s constitution, and tremendous violence surrounding the referendum, but burundian civil society is also under threat. since 2016, burundi has banned six human rights organisations from operating in the country, as well as many media outlets. human rights defenders are being punished for doing their legitimate work. in april, human rights defender germain rukuki was sentenced to 32 years in prison. we know that those in detention can face sexual violence and torture, and he is just one example of many. the eu member states, including the delegations and embassies on the ground, need to step up support for civil society in burundi and call strongly for the release of all jailed human rights defenders.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we fully agree with the criticism of the burundian regime and its continued violations of human rights, and with that i would like to move on to the role of the eu in the country. according to the european network for central africa, the eu contributes substantial sums to the financing of the burundian regime, despite sanctions. the contributions are being diverted through amisom and the african peace facility, as the burundian regime forces its soldiers to pay 20 percent of their salaries to the state treasury. i'd like the foreign service to find a solution to this problem. this is an unintended and problematic consequence of linking security and development. in paragraph 6 of the resolution, we commend the host countries for their efforts to host the burundian refugees and we call on them to ensure that the return of refugees is voluntary, based on well-founded decisions and carried out in safe and dignified ways. i assume that this also applies to the burundians who have taken refuge in europe, where far from all are granted asylum. the situation of dissent in burundi is not new, but nevertheless, over the years, burundians have been forcibly deported by frontex in chartered planes from several european countries... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i would like to thank you. the single market is the greatest success of the eu, which no country opposes. it has enabled the free movement of people, goods, services and capital across borders. it has increased eu gdp by 1.7%, created 3.6 million jobs and new jobs since 1990. the completion of the internal market must therefore remain one of the priorities of the 2019 budget. because the single market is simply too important for us to treat it badly. we must therefore ensure that there is adequate funding for the completion of this market, for the customs union, for consumer protection, for competitiveness in the eu, etc. the budgetary impact of brexit on the union budget is considerable, but we must not forget that the internal market is at the heart of the eu and that it must work better and more efficiently for everyone, and then we will all be better off.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the promotion and protection of human rights is at the heart of multilateralism and a central pillar of the un system, the report says. i fully agree, but the un cannot function if there are countries that create inefficiency and partial lack of legitimacy of the un system. who thinks the un can deliver when countries that systematically persecute and oppress their citizens sit on the un human rights council: venezuela, china, cuba, congo, saudi arabia? who thinks the un can deliver when the security council is completely paralyzed, unable to make decisions on bloody mass killings and ongoing conflicts, such as syria? that is why we in the european parliament need to support un secretary-general guterres in his ambition to reform the un. the un needs to focus on its core mission, reduce bureaucracy, increase transparency, improve anti-corruption work and reform its decision-making. we must help rebuild the confidence of the un.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, yes, it is a request from the s&d group to have a statement from ms mogherini with a resolution. the reason for it is because last wednesday the israeli high court gave its green light to the demolition of the bedouin village of khan al-ahmar in the west bank and the forcible displacement of its population, which can take place any time after 12 september. the case of khan al-ahmar is a key precedent in the policy by the israeli government against bedouin communities living in the negev and in the occupied palestinian territory. the european parliament has to raise its voice against this policy, and we have to do this now as it is still possible to avoid the worst. (applause)
mr president, commissioner creţu, i would like to thank you for your reply. cohesion policy is close to people. together, european regions are building infrastructure, creating growth and enabling greener innovation. the crossborder cooperation of european regions is a concrete example of the great added value of european cooperation. of course, we must therefore guard the lessons and good examples of european regions now that the new programming period is being negotiated. it is therefore difficult to understand why the commission wants to tear down the current structure of cohesion policy. i share the commission's view that we must have an effective eu and i see the value of existing cooperation which today facilitates commuters through common transport networks, such as between tallinn and helsinki, or which brings young people together through transregional youth networks. the commission's proposal to include regional cooperation at the maritime border in transnational programmes is therefore worrying, as examples such as these may be lost.
thank you very much, mr president. the efforts macedonian and greek governments have done regarding the name-related issues are enormous. just try to imagine how we would react if luxembourg has been asked to change its name because there is a province of luxembourg in belgium. and just try to imagine how we would react if luxembourg accepted to do it. we would certainly think the demand was almost ridiculous. we would certainly think that luxembourg has sacrificed itself to the limit of implosion and it showed extreme will to compromise. the greek and macedonian government have found this difficult compromise now. they have found a solution, overbridging emotional, historical and identity issues on both sides and they have to be helped to finalise the issue. years have been lost in this conflict and we cannot afford to prolong it. people from both countries have to show maturity to finalise this deal. they have to have the audacity to believe that another future might be possible, and we have to help them in that.
mr president, bearing in mind europe’s ageing population and the fact that almost 30% of europeans report having a chronic physical or mental health problem, illness or disability, the issue of the reintegration of workers is of the highest importance. i would like to thank all my colleagues who worked on this report. i hope that we will raise awareness about stress and burnout at work, talk more about mental health in the workplace and, most importantly, recognise the psychological and social factors that a return to work entails for individuals, and recommend tailormade measures in different cases, since we don’t have one measure that fits all. workplaces should ensure a physically and mentally safe and healthy working environment throughout people’s working life, and active and healthy ageing for workers. member state employers should have the obligation to keep a positive work-oriented approach to people with disabilities, especially because they are very often excluded. older workers are in favour of upskilling, ensuring their competences are used in the best way possible.
mr president, i would like to thank you. democracy is not something you taste sometimes as a dessert today i take dessert, sometimes i don't. it's something that's fundamental to the whole of this work, how we're going to have it together. you are failing, mr orbán, and the right here does not really know how they will vote tomorrow. i believe and hope that you will land right in the end. what i'm also concerned about is the idea of the nation that you have, and it's shared by some people here on the right side of the house. it is patriarchal, it is authoritarian, it is anti-democratic, it is racist, and it is dangerous for us women, for us lgbtq people, for all our racialized sisters and brothers. the nationalism you represent, it destroys and it destroys. europe cannot be built on racism and oppression and anti-democracy. civil society is fighting against this oppression. we in the european parliament are now doing our job carefully in sargentini's report, and i ask the right to do their part and vote for that report tomorrow. anything else would be a shame. then i would ask the council to do its job. sitting down at a table and not having the basic rules ready for you does not bode well for the political content to be decided on.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the behavior in the first row reminds me a lot of my school days, when bullies would line up in front of their bully victim, gawking and screaming. when they were done, they'd go off and fuck, pat each other on the shoulder, congratulate each other on how good they were. that's the behavior we see at the very bottom. first row, you think you're good. it's appalling to see the way you behave towards democratically elected representatives who visit the house. the sargentini report is a cut-and-paste model, which does not give an objective picture of the situation. hungary has responded to the allegations in the report. the question must also be asked why the report, which is based on the observations of other organisations, should carry more weight than what hungary claims in substance. the eu is trying to punish hungary, and the eu's actions are restricting hungary's sovereignty in a totally unacceptable way.
mr president, today i am proud to stand up for democracy. this debate is not about condemning, sanctioning and accusing. it is to reach out to the hungarian people, to engage in an open dialogue and to uphold our shared values and their rights as europeans, based on facts and rules. democracy is more than winning elections. our union is founded on human rights, civil liberties and freedoms. prime minister orbán, high—flying rhetoric and a denial of reality does not help us to move forward together. you and i shared an inspiring moment of history at the funeral of helmut kohl, the great statesman who united europe and shaped a union based on liberal democracy and christian values. instead, splitting east and west and pursuing hard nationalism undermines our union. you do not represent helmut kohl’s heritage, nor the salvation of christian democracy. christianity is about respecting human dignity and helping the most vulnerable in need, not sabotaging any european solution on migration. there is no illiberal democracy. everything else is regimes. now you want to export your model, spreading the acute salvinitis virus that is affecting italy, lining up with populists in france, poland, the swedish democrats and even putin. bad company! rest assured, we in the ppe group are not going to give up our identity, nor lose our compass. please, mr orbán, i truly hope you will find yours again. citizens are watching. either we stand up for our values or we are dragged down in the populist meltdown. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank you. the proposal for a copyright amendment is unacceptable. it's going to force upload filters across large parts of the internet. these filters are stupid! they will prevent people from doing fully legal sharing of images, music, videos and political commentary, and it risks affecting a lot of platforms whose business model has nothing to do with copyright infringement. sites like tripadvisor, which is all about giving us tips on nice restaurants and great places to go. many of these sites won't be able to afford upload filters. we need to resist the pressure from the copyright lobby and put the public interest first. i urge you to vote no to upload filters and instead support imco's proposal for a balanced copyright that both supports the right of artists to get paid better and the right of the public to a well-functioning internet.
in writing. – a word of advice is needed for those who advocate an ever-expanding eu in terms of both territory and competencies. the eu that most citizens had the chance to vote for is not that which has emerged over the past 15 years: therefore, this expansion must cease. furthermore, the eu has an obligation to ensure the integrity of its external border in order for member states to be able to uphold law and order, which is a prerequisite for the contract between citizens and the eu itself. should that contract be broken – and it has been broken – then trust in the union will decrease. the cultural absorption level has already been exceeded in all the member states that had unchecked mass migration during recent decades. mass migration to the eu must cease, and support must be provided so that the vast majority of migrants who have arrived are supported to return in a dignified manner, integrate effectively in their home countries and be enabled to become vehicles of democratic change. if european notions, values and ideals are not to be changed irrevocably, or indeed lost, in the near future a migration moratorium is needed.
mr president, i fully supported the report on article 7 asking members to assess if there is a risk of a serious breach of european values in hungary. i voted for europe and for ppe values, on the side of the hungarian people. raising concerns, based on facts, about the hungarian government’s policies is not punishing the people. i am proud to be a swede, an italian and a european. there is no contradiction. as a friend of hungary, i appeal to prime minister orbán to move from denial to dialogue and to reconsider policies violating article 2 of the eu treaty, in particular restrictions on academic freedom and on civil society, and breaches of european asylum law. i believe in building bridges, but we urgently need to see concrete changes and results in hungary. i am proud the ppe stood united for european values, showing that we are a credible political family. i will continue to stand up for the rule of law against populism and extremism in europe.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is time for the eu to take the lead even more clearly today and show that today's plastic consumption is not sustainable. plastic waste is a global problem and the eu needs to show much clearer leadership. but it is also about the eu doing its own homework. every year, up to 500 000 tonnes of plastic litter ends up in eu seas, and the mediterranean is in fact the sea with the highest concentration of plastic litter in the world. if nothing is done, by 2050 there will be more plastic than fish in the oceans. this is madness that must be stopped. as we tackle the environmental impact of plastics, we must also ensure that hazardous chemicals are phased out and replaced by a toxic-free cycle. because, my friends, that's not least of all the microplastics that end up in our oceans. while we only see about one percent of the plastic in the oceans, most of it is hidden beneath the surface, absorbing chemicals that can be harmful to both human health and the environment. i therefore want the commission to present the action plan for a toxic free environment promised under the seventh environmental action programme. i want to know when, and when exactly, the promised strategy against endocrine disruptors will come into force.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. today we're debating the threat of plastic. it takes 20 seconds to produce new plastic, 20 minutes to use it, and more than 400 years for it to break down in the environment. and speaking of our oceans, they never break down, they just break down into microplastics, which eventually end up in our bodies. we don't have time; we have to deal with this big environmental threat now. that is why i welcome the commission's proposal to ban 10 single-use plastic articles. but unfortunately, that's not enough; we need to be much more ambitious and take a stronger stance against this plastic threat. we must raise ambition so that everyone takes responsibility. let's really work together now, all of us together, to reduce our plastic dependency. business, civil society, us here in the eu system and all member states - we have everything to gain from de-plasting.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. transport today accounts for a quarter of europe's greenhouse gas emissions, and now is the time to digitise the transport sector, so that we can both reduce emissions and ensure that we introduce the polluter pays principle. for example, we need to introduce electronic road charges based on the climate impact of vehicles. we also welcome the development of new innovations for smart mobility, but more needs to be done and therefore we call on the commission and the member states to promote more ambitious plans to make smart mobility sustainable, both in our cities and in the countryside. at the same time, the eu must become more secure. we will protect the most vulnerable in traffic and ensure that we have better connections between vehicles, infrastructure and the network itself to ensure a smooth and safe flow of traffic. finally, i would like to emphasise the role of innovation for a clean and sustainable future. we need to ensure that raw materials and battery cells are produced and recycled in a way that is sustainable, transparent and fair. an ambitious green transport policy is needed to reduce emissions quickly and efficiently. we need to do this now because the climate cannot wait.
author. – mr president, we will not and cannot allow ourselves to stand by while crimes against humanity and genocide have been happening in myanmar. the rohingya people are victims of ethnic cleansing. they are being punished, killed, raped and displaced from their homes. they are suffering and dying in refugee camps like cox’s bazar in bangladesh. journalists have been persecuted simply for reporting on the atrocities committed against rohingya people. the myanmar military and the government led by aung san suu kyi have to be held accountable. we call for justice for the rohingya people and for all those who stand up for their rights and investigate and report on these crimes against humanity. we demand the immediate release of the two reuter journalists. there are reasons for us to consider whether we should continue to give economic support to the myanmar regime.
madam president, to all of those who believe that brussels is just composed of grey bureaucrats imposing their decisions on the national governments, i would advise them to look at what we just voted. for example, people who wanted to take advantage of the single market, those who want to work somewhere else in some other states, who may want to open business in some other state, they need that crucial information online. for example, how to register in a new city, how to calculate taxes, how to find where the closest garbage collector is, etc. 92% of the european population don’t know that they can get that the information online and now, today, we’ve fixed that problem. we have just voted to establish a single digital gateway to ensure that citizens and businesses have easy online access to complete, accurate and up-to-date information. thanks to this house, we have made the lives of european citizens much easier.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? we have to stop bowing to putin. now, we are here one year after the last debate on the vulnerability of lgbtq people in chechnya, and we are stating facts: lgbtq people continue to be abused, murdered, persecuted and forced to flee in russia solely because of their sexual orientation. this is completely unacceptable! innocent people are rounded up, thrown in prison and subjected to torture. more than 100 people are estimated to have fled the republic in fear for their lives under president kadyrov's reign of terror. president putin must now take seriously the investigation into the atrocities in chechnya which he has promised the world, and we in the eu must launch the independent international inquiry which we have been calling for so long. above all, however, the eu must end its dependence on russian gas and oil so that we can stand up freely and independently for the human rights of all people. it's about lives now. all lgbt people who have sought asylum in the eu in these circumstances must be allowed to stay. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
(blue card) what we are discussing today is how the eu implements its guidelines on lgbt rights. it's not a crime to be gay or to have a different gender identity. that is what we are discussing today, and that is why my speech in this house is about the rights of lgbtq people in chechnya.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. i thank the commission and the rapporteur for acting so forcefully on this matter. it is really important that europe shows leadership here because blockchain, or distributed databases, is a technology with enormous potential and with a multitude of possible applications. the technology could be a safe and effective alternative to encryption to protect personal data, and something that will become increasingly important in the future. with blockchains, we also have the potential to democratize energy markets, for example. individual households will be able to produce green electricity and easily sell their surplus to the grid. there is also the potential to tackle corruption worldwide. by decentralizing systems and data, we reduce the opportunities for corrupt officials to exploit their position for their own gain. the system itself makes that impossible. blockchain has the potential to revolutionize many fields. by raising this question now, we increase the chances that europe will not fall behind in this transition. if we are to take advantage of the opportunities that blockchain brings, europe needs to be at the forefront of that development, which i am glad we are now acting on.
madam president, i would like to thank you. as regards migration, we know that people who flee to the eu are in a very vulnerable situation. however, they must be given the right to seek asylum throughout the eu. the situation we live in now is untenable. more people need to be involved and share the responsibility. if we do not share the responsibility, it will lead to a serious imbalance in the commitments of the rest of eu cooperation and break up all other cooperation. as regards brexit, i would just like to say that as a swedish social democrat i am very sad that the british are leaving the eu. we have had a lot in common from the swedish side, from the nordic side, with the british. we could have continued to do so and achieved great results. now you're going away. it's sad. we must not allow a race to the bottom to develop, for example, in the area of workers' rights.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? so tired of just hitting it sometimes. you want to get some culture and sell your country. but the culture is us and our blood. selling the land to mining companies, that's called genocide. these words come from the sami activist sofia jannok, from falling one, fall all. in my home country of sweden, the indigenous people, the sami, are being denied their human rights. it is a clear case where the interests of the forestry and mining companies are put before the rights of man and nature. so how are people and the environment affected? forestry and mining are transforming the landscape, depleting biodiversity and making it difficult for reindeer to feed. the mining industry's massive daily operations affect land and water and create huge amounts of hazardous waste. sweden must ratify ilo convention 169 on the rights of indigenous peoples. it's time for justice!
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the united nations has called the conflict in yemen the world's worst humanitarian disaster. in the three years of civil war, tens of thousands of people have died, many have been displaced and 22 million are in need of humanitarian aid. both government forces and the rebels have been accused of war crimes by human rights organizations. under the eu's common arms export rules, we are not allowed to export to countries at war. yet, practically all arms-producing eu countries do so, to a greater or lesser extent, and those that initially decided to stop arms exports have soon resumed them. the spanish prime minister even said on television that spain was not responsible for what happens to the weapons that are delivered after they leave spain. he's wrong. in many eu countries, civil society is pushing to stop arms exports. it has led to stricter arms export legislation in my home country but not to a halt in arms exports. sweden also continues to export. parliament has repeatedly spoken in favour of an embargo. we need it now. the european union is a major player in the world economy, and it is the world's largest exporter of goods and services. how can european jobs be more important than ending the suffering of the yemeni people? europe is a major participant in this war.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu must be carbon neutral by 2050 to limit global warming to a maximum of 2 degrees. road transport today accounts for 27% of emissions. at the same time, passenger car traffic is expected to increase by 42% by 2050. it is clear that if we are to live up to the paris agreement, we must vigorously reduce the emissions of the new cars entering the market. at the same time, however, conservative parties seem to believe that strong climate action is harming industry, but in reality the opposite is true. it's no coincidence that tesla is based in california, which not only suffers from climate problems in the form of drought, but also has an ambitious climate policy that in turn fuels innovation and industrial development. in sweden, for example, we provide long-term investment support for the conversion of the energy and industrial sectors. we think it's good for industrial development. like every industry, the automotive industry needs clear policy objectives if we are to succeed, and it is policy that must guide and provide strong incentives for the green transition so that we get new electric cars to market. now is the time - now is the time for proof - for the conservative parties who say the eu should act on climate to show that they are serious about keeping their promises. we can't keep dragging this thing along. now is the time for the eu to lead.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is not difficult to live up to or bask in the glamour of climate agreements if you do not intend to live up to them. it is therefore up to the legislative process to prove which parties and politicians are truly ambitious. today, cars and vans account for up to one fifth of europe's total carbon dioxide emissions. climate emissions must be reduced in all sectors of society if we are to meet both the eu and the paris agreement climate goals. this is why this framework is one of the most important pieces of eu climate legislation at the moment. sweden is one of the countries in the world that is most dependent on the automotive industry in the social economy. we actually have the highest number of employees in this industry per capita. we know how important it is to create the right conditions for a viable and greener automotive industry, both today and in the future. that is precisely why the swedish position on behalf of the social democrats, both here and in the council, has been very ambitious. we are working to send a clear signal to the market that it pays to invest in climate-smart vehicles and to be at the forefront of the development. anything else - low ambition - is actually a dead end for the automotive industry. it is a matter of putting the european car industry in the backwater of global competition, and i do not want to see it in that position either. we have a good and possible vote tomorrow on a good report, for which i would like to commend rapporteur miriam dalli. it's important to vote for ambition tomorrow. it's up to the evidence.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? it's not the bootstraps on our streets that scare me. nor are it the gap-necked people who are bellowing slogans from the past that worry me. my focus is entirely on the people who manipulate and support these people. our democracy is not a stable system. it must be defended. our facilities are under constant attack. scientific findings are confused with opinions. well-known experts are referred to as elitist, white-collar types who should shut up. in these murky waters, resistances to facts, racism and fascism are growing. opinions and ideologies that we thought had disappeared are now making a comeback and are here. what was previously unknowable is now allowed to be aired. hate and threats against journalists and politicians are on the rise. anti-racists and feminists are particularly vulnerable. after hate and threats comes violence, and violence breeds more violence. we must fight for democracy in small and large deeds. we can't just give up and lay low. we must have the courage to continue to paint the picture of the society we want to see and to fight for it every day. it focuses on the inviolable rights of man.
in writing. – nazis are allowed to march on our streets and spread their hate. these groups attack everyone that does not fit into their fascist view of society: ethnic and religious minorities, refugees, lgbti-people, feminists, human rights activists and political opponents. they attack our democracy and freedom. why and what are we as a society waiting for? we have already seen in europe what fascism can do. when are we going to learn from the past? we have to ban nazi and fascist organisations in europe. we have to stand together against hate and violence. it is our duty to stop this growing neo-fascist violence and hate. it is our duty to protect and revive our democracy before it is too late.
author. – mr president, it’s very interesting to be discussing this issue, which is of great importance to eu citizens, at this hour. however, i’m very pleased that this debate is taking place since voting rights is a key issue for the committee of which i am chair, namely the committee on petitions, in this house. participation in the democratic life of the eu and the electoral rights of eu citizens living abroad in another member state in the union is frequently the subject of petitions to my committee. six member states – namely cyprus, denmark, germany, ireland, malta and the united kingdom – systematically deprive their nationals of the right to vote in national elections due to their residence in another member state. the same member states also disenfranchise their nationals in european elections if they live permanently in a third country. however, the right to vote is a fundamental right. therefore, depriving citizens of the right to vote once they move to another eu member state is effectively equivalent to punishing these citizens for having exercised their right to free movement in the union. these persons very often feel like second—class citizens. these practices can change their whole lives without giving them the opportunity to participate, which was the case for all the british citizens who were not allowed to participate in the referendum about brexit because they had lived in another member state for some time. however, they were directly affected by the result when brexit was a fact. it is therefore high time that the member states in this union address this very concrete concern because disenfranchisement has huge consequences for all the individuals concerned. the loss of electoral rights for citizens moving to another member state can be seen as an infringement upon freedom of movement under eu law. it could potentially stop eu citizens from exercising their right to free movement in the union. indeed, the discouraging effect in each individual case may be difficult to prove, but the violation of eu citizenship rights does not require statistical or other evidence. it’s enough to read the petitions to our committee. the main justification for disenfranchisement, that citizens living abroad no longer have sufficient links with their home country, seems completely outdated in the globalised world of today. we are interconnected with each other. the nationality bond with a state is still the main connecting factor for the rights and obligations of each citizen, but citizens resident abroad still have obligations deriving from their nationality so they should also be conferred their corresponding rights. in addition, there has been a eurobarometer on electoral rights, where two—thirds of the respondents thought that it was not at all justified that people lose the right to vote in national elections in their country simply because they reside in another eu country. the committee on petitions considers that eu citizens who move to reside in another member state should have the possibility to exercise their right to vote in the national elections of their country of origin. the committee therefore calls on those member states that disenfranchise nationals who choose to live for an extended period in another member state to ease the conditions for these nationals and preserve their right to vote in national elections. the committee is aware of the fact that the decision on who is conferred the right to vote in national and european elections lies with the member states. nevertheless, we also know that the problem of the disenfranchisement of voting rights has been known for a long time. it is therefore high time to take action now. we therefore urge the commission to propose specific measures for removing any obstacles to free movement. especially in view of the upcoming elections in may next year, we must safeguard the right of all eu citizens to choose to vote either in their member state of origin or in the host member state where they reside. i look forward to hearing your answers to the questions put forward by the committee on petitions.
blue-card question. – i am more and more surprised about the debate here. i heard the socialists and democrats (s&d) group applaud the extremes up here when defending corruption in romania, and the question i would like to raise is: aren’t you concerned about a government that is not just not sufficiently fighting corruption, but is fighting those who are fighting corruption? could i have an answer to that?
for the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. welcome to the house, prime minister ratas. it's nice of you to take the time to visit us. we have heard many positive voices about eu membership. in this house, we believe in diversity. i will therefore be delivering a somewhat different picture of membership. i'm swedish and i'm from sweden. in 1994 we had our referendum on membership when we were really overwhelmed by the yes campaign because they had the financial muscle to run a real campaign. the no side was more of a nonprofit. we were inundated with all the things that would be great about the eu. there was not a voice that spoke of what would be the back of a membership. we became members, and in 1995 we joined the european union. i actually voted yes myself that time. i saw the clear advantages of trading with all of europe. what i never saw and could not foresee was the development that this house itself would take, where national self-determination is increasingly being eaten up. we have troubles today. we have a transport industry threatened by fraudulent companies operating under the protection of eu rules. we cannot control this ourselves in sweden because the eu rules automatically override our own rules. at the moment, at a border checkpoint. otherwise, we have border controls that don't exist. we no longer have control over the people who are in our country. we have, in many ways, uncontrolled immigration. thank god we never joined the euro project! all the experts declared that if sweden did not join the euro, disaster awaited. i think we, the swedish people, are glad today that we never listened to the experts, because it has been good for sweden to be outside in many ways. for estonia, membership has had a very different effect. for you, it's been very positive. estonia is a very beautiful country that i have visited several times, and which also reminds me of sweden in many ways. i am glad that you have so many positive experiences of membership. however, given the current situation in my country, sweden, in this cooperation, i would like to renegotiate our agreement. i would like to renegotiate it just as i and all other swedes and europeans renegotiate their contracts, for example with the electricity supplier, with the bank where you have your mortgages, or with all those institutions or associations that you have joined but are no longer fully satisfied with membership. however, such a renegotiation is very difficult to achieve. sweden is a small country we have only 20 members in this house and 14 votes out of 340 in the council of ministers. i would, however, like to see such a renegotiation because i do not like the idea of all the member states being molded into exactly the same shape within europe. i want cooperation with our friends and neighbours, and i want it to be under the preservation of national sovereignty.
mr president, mr prime minister, tallinn is the capital in europe closest to stockholm, yet for decades it was still very far away. the first time i arrived in tallinn i met kgb police border patrols. i had to pay with roubles, there was surveillance and – i can confess today – i did smuggle three ericsson mobile phones. (laughter and applause)i confess to that criminal act. i met with dissidents and heroes under the dictatorship. today, we are closer than ever thanks to the european union – open markets, freedom of movement, freedom of expression. those who compare this european union, which estonia is an outstanding example and part of, to the soviet union, don’t know what the soviet union was. (applause)but, worse than that, they don’t know what freedom is and i want you, prime minister, to show, with strength, how we can develop our union with digitalisation, open markets, the dynamic economies making europe strong versus russia, versus china and versus all those who would like to undermine the international order of law and justice. (applause)
madam president, coming from sweden, i can only reassure my colleagues that i am very committed to keeping a strong safety net that can alleviate the impacts of poverty and social exclusion. however, listening to this debate, i have a feeling that some of you are proposing the basic income guarantee, which is a completely different thing. there, i have to say the basic income guarantee undermines the incentive to participate in society. the help and minimum income connected to it should be designed to help overcome unemployment and find work for those able to work. help can never be an unconditional free ride for healthy adult people to live off other people’s incomes. on the contrary, if you design it that way, you are likely to lead to high rates of inequality and poverty. reallocating welfare payments from targeted transfers, those for unemployment, housing disability, etc. to a generalised transfer for everyone, means that the amount that goes to the most deserving will be lower. do we really want less for everybody? do we really want less for those who need more? therefore, i urge you, we have to have a minimum income in a certain way, designed to help overcoming the troubles and the poverty that exist, but if you design it as an income guarantee you will end up stripping people of the incentive to participate in society and make it worse for the needy.
madam president, i would like to thank you. free movement is one of the pillars of the eu, but unfortunately it is not just jobseekers, students and businesses who benefit from it. according to europol, there are thousands of criminal syndicates operating within the eu, involved in drug trafficking, human trafficking, child sex trafficking, money laundering, fraud, cybercrime. this makes it an obligation for the eu and for all member states to do more for law enforcement and the safety and security of citizens. a eurobarometer survey last year showed that 92 per cent of eu citizens want us to work strategically to fight serious crossborder crime. in other words, citizens across our member countries expect us to deliver on the challenges we face. the problem is that cooperation between member states in sharing and interpreting information does not work very well - partly because of the different systems used. the eurojust legislation we are now voting on is therefore a very, very important step in the right direction. another important step forward we have made is the european public prosecutor's office. i regret in this context that member states, including poland, hungary and sweden, have chosen to remain outside this cooperation against crime and corruption. we can still go, and that would be important. however, what we are voting on tomorrow is a major step forward in improving and making law enforcement more efficient, so let us look positively at the possibilities for free movement to also work in law enforcement and prosecution.
rapporteur. – mr president, the digital revolution is changing all parts of our lives, and we are still only at the beginning of this exciting development. movement of data will grow in volume and importance, and my vision is for an open, safe and global internet for all. with this regulation we will remove barriers, borders and burdens impeding the free flow of non-personal data. we have, de facto, established the fifth freedom in the internal market – data – next to freedom of movement of people, goods, services and capital. it is a game changer for the digital economy. the free flow of data (ffod) regulation is a regulation to deregulate. we are removing national data localisation requirements and facilitating portability of cloud service providers. step by step, we are creating a legal framework for the future digital economy. we are creating a level playing field for companies to compete globally. with the usa and china moving fast – as you always point out, vice-president ansip – and with much more data available than in europe, access to data for companies and especially for smes is crucial. ffod has the potential to create efficiency throughout the value chain, to enable economies of scale and to boost innovation, paving the way for artificial intelligence, cloud computing and big data analysis. it is a good example of better regulation, with the clear added value of a europe that delivers concrete results. the estimated associated gdp growth is eur 8 billion per year – equal to the two free-trade agreements between the european union and south korea and canada. so what have we achieved? with the new rules, any data that is non-personal can be stored and processed anywhere in the eu – sales data, revenues, profits, stock prices, balance sheets, product design, price lists – to name but a few. we have succeeded in keeping just one exception: in the case of a threat to public security, the member states may still allow restriction of data localisation. companies and public administration will have the possibility to outsource data processes anywhere in the eu, but it is not an obligation. we have clarified that this applies at all levels of government – national, regional and local. also, public administrations which run in-house cloud service systems, like the bundescloud in germany, will be able to use them, and we have succeeded in ensuring that the public procurement of cloud services by member states will be open to operators from throughout the european union. we have also facilitated portability of cloud service providers. it has to be as simple for companies, especially for smes, to move, for example, from icloud to tieto as it is to change telephone operators from vodafone to telia. the market players, which are the ones best suited, will have 18 months to develop and implement codes of conduct to ensure easy switching between cloud service providers. the new law will not affect citizens’ privacy. the general data protection regulation (gdpr) will remain untouched. in cases where personal and non-personal data are inextricably linked in a mixed data set, ffod will not prejudge gdpr. we have clarified the concept and added safeguards to ensure that the rules afford legal certainty and are up to date and fit for purpose, including in the future. we have asked the commission to present guidelines on how the regulation will apply to mixed data sets, before its entry into force, and we have shortened the review time to four years. lastly, competent authorities with a legitimate reason can access company data stored in another member state via a simplified procedure and a point of single contact. i am proud that we can deliver rules that are simple, net neutral and easy to apply in real life. the time has come to stand up against the data protectionism that is threatening our digital economy and society. and in this case, if i may dare to say so: mission accomplished! (applause)
mr president, there have always been many obstacles for movement of data across systems in europe. businesses were not able to choose the most cost effective locations for it resources; it was complicated and it was bureaucratic. thanks to this regulation we have improved the mobility of non—personal data and made it possible for professional users to choose and switch service providers while, at the same time, ensuring the security of such data. it shows, once again, that the eu can deliver and can make a difference. removing data localisation restrictions can make our economy grow by eur 700 million in 2020. this also means that we treat the freedom of establishment very seriously by allowing companies and public administrations to store and process non—personal data wherever they choose in the eu. this regulation is therefore a small, but very crucial victory, for the citizens and businesses of europe.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, this regulation is a key pillar of the digital single market. it will bring benefits and immediate business efficiencies, particularly for smes, start-ups and scale—ups. it means that there will be no more need to duplicate it resources across different member states, a heavy burden for smaller companies. it will be easier for them to enter new markets and scale up. there will be no more constraints on cross-border scaling of innovative technologies that require data storage. i believe the proposal will have three important effects: legal certainty on the free flow of data in europe; a higher level of trust between public authorities; and more competitive eu cloud markets. it will lead us closer to a european common data space, in which data is shared, reused and flows freely. however, we still need to update the rules on public-sector information and encourage businesses to share private-sector data. all these elements are necessary to build a strong european data economy. as we all know, the data economy – including artificial intelligence, which was mentioned many times here today – is nonsense without data. we have to look at the bigger picture. china and global service providers were also mentioned many times today. in china they have huge data sets, they have 1.3 billion images and, of course, it’s much easier for them to create face recognition systems based on artificial intelligence. in the united states they have global service providers. they have google, amazon and facebook. they have huge data sets and they can teach computers. even when looking at cloud service providers here in europe, we have to remember that 50% of those services are provided by amazon, microsoft and ibm. they have access to this data and they can teach their computers. even when thinking about our hospitals or local municipalities, too often global service providers are able to provide services with higher quality at lower prices. the question is about what happens when data is cut off. if they do not get access to a certain data set, that is just another data set for them. the question is how our start—ups and small and medium—sized enterprises will get access to data. in the european union we already have 56 different rules on data localisation in 21 eu member states. free flow of data is about our jobs. this is about the salaries of our people. it’s a very practical issue. we have to provide access to data, including to our start—ups and our small and medium—sized businesses. i would like to thank parliament and the council for their constructive comments and contributions during the negotiation phase of this regulation.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am touched and grateful for the amazing support that i received from colleagues, cross-political groups. let me tell you, vice-president ansip, how much i truly appreciate your commitment and cooperation, together with commissioner gabriel and director-general viola. i noticed, mr president, that only the extreme right populists have been against. they want the next generation to live in the past, instead of the future. they have not given us the answer on how france, for example, under the front national, would compete alone by closing digital borders with china or the us. as usual, they are attacking without giving any answers. let me tell you instead that i am proud that we have managed to keep the national exceptions restricted to just one. i am proud that we have succeeded in overcoming the member states’ concerns that data process outside of the territory would be less safe and accessible. tell us please, dear colleagues from the extreme right: how would data be safer in a box in a cellar within a national border instead of in the cloud with the most efficient and safe cloud service providers? if they are not efficient, they are out of a job. and let me tell you that we have seen attacks, mr president, against central government systems, and it is actually decentralisation more than centralisation of data storage and processing that can provide more security at a time when hackers are proliferating. wake up to the digital realities. many sectors directly benefit from the free data flows. some colleagues mentioned e—health. the transport sector is a good example. the truck industry, from scania to volvo, are depending on the free flow of data to deliver environmentally friendly and innovative solutions and to speed up maintenance at a distance. mr president, we are only at the beginning of seeing the advantages for public authorities and companies. there is already more efficiency, fewer cars and more climate-friendliness in the use of a cloud provider located in another member state. let me finish by telling you how much i have appreciated the cooperation with the estonian presidency, which managed to find a common solution quickly in the council and the precedent set by bulgaria for good cooperation in quickly finding a final agreement. a warm thank you to all the shadows: christian, daniel, dita, julie and marco, the commission, mark from the enca secretariat, silva from the epp, the legal and policy department and stakeholders for their invaluable contribution. mr president, together we have truly delivered a volvo and a ferrari, ready to drive into the new digital area.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i also want to speak about the italian mayor who was arrested for facilitating illegal immigration. he comes from a place that is famous for the way it has managed to receive many migrants. he has integrated them, and he has also managed to create jobs. this win-win model of coexistence between residents and refugees that has been built has been positive for the economy of the whole community. i also wanted to talk about aquarius and about proactiva open arms and about the criminalization that is happening today also for those who save lives, but there is little time. since the large influx of refugees into the eu in 2015, we have unfortunately seen an increasing trend across europe of member states trying to criminalize in various ways the provision of assistance to refugees and equating it with human trafficking. then, in 2015, some member states showed a total lack of solidarity, both with the refugees and with the other member states. however, where states failed to take responsibility, local and regional authorities took over, and together with civil society organisations, they managed to provide the newcomers with housing, food, healthcare and education - often without any financial support from national authorities, and sometimes quite the opposite. we greens therefore believe that it is necessary to give municipalities, regions and organisations that take on their humanitarian responsibilities for the migrants who arrive both legal support and the resources to do so. there are so many good examples from different municipalities in europe where integration between the indigenous population and the newcomers works extremely well. especially in towns with a declining population, population growth can be the key to the economic boom that the town so badly needs. for us greens, there is also no way that humanitarian aid to refugees can be criminalised. on 5 april this year parliament adopted a resolution setting out guidelines to avoid the very situations we have seen in italy today, which many others may wish to follow. we want the commission to draw up guidelines in line with our resolution.
in writing. it is urgent to prevent further deaths in the mediterranean, but this does not mean that those in need must be brought to europe. the best support the eu can provide to authorities that have been affected by illegal migration so far is to ensure that the flow of migration is regulated from outside the eu. we know that the majority of migrants crossing the mediterranean are economic migrants, not refugees or asylum seekers. when looking for work and income, it is very useful to apply for a work permit through a national mission, i.e. in the applicant's home country. it seems hard for too many politicians to realize that this is what legal migration is and the way our voters and citizens once mandated us to manage it. the smaller part that really needs protection will of course get it, but for them it is secondary where this protection is provided. we should in cooperation with the un and unhcr look more closely at australia's model to prevent deaths and illegal migration in the mediterranean. if there is the will, adapting this model to european and african conditions will save lives and be part of a long-term solution to many of the problems we see today.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to thank mr coelho and the shadow rapporteurs for their smooth and good work. the potential of public procurement is obviously enormous. 250 000 public authorities in the union spend around 14% every year of our gdp – nearly eur 2 000 billion each year on purchasing services, work and supplies – and still, this enormous potential is not fully achieved. there are three reasons for that. firstly, because member states have been very late in transposing the 2014 directives on public procurement – so late that the commission had to initiate infringement procedures against some of them, and, unfortunately, i do suspect they will again be late transposing for the next round of deadlines, notably regarding e—procurement. secondly, member states’ authorities on a national, regional and local level are not using public procurement strategically. that’s why i urge them to not consider public procurement as an administrative burden, but a way to promote a smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, to force innovation to help smes to gain new markets, create new jobs. thirdly, because the practitioners of public procurement need further education. those directives are indeed complicated and member states should therefore organise training in order to get it right in public procurement and open university courses to develop public procurement studies and public procurement law. that’s why i welcome all the action proposed here, all the strategies taken by the commission, and i wish to remind everybody that an effective public procurement will lead to taxpayers’ money being better spent in the union.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the situation of the press in belarus has continued to worsen. belarus now ranks 155 out of 180 in the world press freedom index. harassment, intimidation, threats now form part of the daily life of independent journalists in belarus. in early august 2018, belarusian authorities carried out raids in the newsroom of the independent belarusian outlets tut.by and belapan. at the same time, the government recently extended its control over media outlets by compelling everybody to register with the authorities before even being able to publish. this is beyond what anybody even in this chamber could imagine. therefore, belarusian authorities have to lift the ban of the charter 97 and all the other independent media and i ask this chamber to continue our support to the belarus ngos. we owe it to the citizens of belarus to defend their freedom of expression.
author. – mr president, at a time when we see an increasing number of human rights defenders harassed for doing their legitimate work, we also see that the situation in the united arab emirates is extremely concerning. human rights defender ahmed mansoor is in prison for allegedly publishing false information to damage the uae’s reputation abroad. what is actually damaging the emirates’ reputation abroad is the violation of the right to freedom of expression. we demand the immediate and unconditional release of ahmed mansoor and all other human rights defenders and prisoners of conscience. how can eu member states continue trading arms and security equipment with uae? how can the eu maintain its visa waiver programme with uae when they clearly violate the human rights clause it is based on? i call on the eu to condemn the treatment of mansoor and clearly and loudly call for his release. i say again that the eu must uphold human rights clauses in our international agreements and trade policies.
rapporteur. – madam president, we have removed the barriers to the free flow of data within the european union. the fact that we are establishing the fifth freedom within the internal market is a game changer for the european digital economy. i would like to say it’s a good example of a europe that delivers and i want to thank all of you warmly for great cooperation and support.
mr president, yes, it is about the same problem. as you might know, last month the metoo european parliament movement launched a blog which collects and publishes anonymous testimonies of victims of sexual harassment and sexual assault within the european parliament: ‘metooep.com’. the blog is intended to be a first port of call for victims, to provide solidarity and information, to raise awareness on what forms sexual harassment can take and to show victims that they are not alone. we need to break the culture of silence around sexual harassment. we need to support this movement of workers who are bravely sharing their stories, so we must fully support and implement the european parliament resolution on combating sexual harassment and abuse in the eu adopted by a vast majority more than one year ago. i stand strongly with the metoo european parliament movement. we have to take this seriously and stop this culture. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is time to ban fossil fuels and invest in climate in the most vulnerable regions and people. the transition to a green economy must take place within the next few years. the un panel on climate change is very clear: for every degree of global warming, the human rights consequences will be catastrophic, and we will see millions of climate refugees. that's why it's so incredibly important to limit emissions now. climate action is not just about limiting emissions, it is also about adapting to a changing climate, transferring technology to poor regions, building capacity for the most vulnerable people and a just transition to a green economy. these are the building blocks. if we don't invest in gender equality, we're not going to be able to cope with the climate. we need to strengthen women's rights. we greens believe that a progressive climate policy with the power to change must always go hand in hand with a fair development, where we guarantee the rights of the most vulnerable people and regions. we're gonna work really hard to make sure no one gets left behind.
madam president, i would like to thank you. 15-year-old greta thunberg from sweden stood in front of the swedish parliament and went on a 15-day school strike. as a parent, i can't of course urge all schoolchildren to do the same, but it was a brave act to point out to all the politicians in parliament that they are not doing enough and that she - as young as 15 - sees what the world needs. i would therefore like to say to all those citizens who, like greta, are wondering what we are doing in these houses that there are allies who want to fight so that the paris agreement is not just beautiful words, but that they are also applied in law and in our future. my message is this: don't give up on me! the un climate panel reported last week that there is a high risk that we will not reach the paris agreement. we need to increase our work significantly if we are to reach the 1.5 degree target. there's no turning back the clock. we have to do a lot more. i will support 55% by 2030 and i expect all my colleagues to stand behind it, so that we have a good message for the climate conference in december.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – madam president, europe is facing a lot of challenges – from the rise of populism, to the impact of new technologies, to the refugees that have to be integrated – and the budget is supposed to be our solution to these problems. that is why it is a bit surprising that we are not making bigger cuts, reprioritisation and relocation. everything seems to be as important as last year, but it cannot be, because the world is rapidly changing, it has changed. but the good thing about this budget is its support to the single market. the single market is our biggest success. it is actually the core of this business – the possibility to move to another country, to work, to study, to export, import – that is what this union is about. that is why i am supporting this budget and that is why the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) is very glad for the support it has been given.
mr president, i would like to thank you. today we're discussing the right of all people to clean water. without water, there is no life. but how do we actually treat our most important resource, our drinking water? real security is about having access to clean water, clean air and food free of toxins. yet we allow powerful interests to poison our drinking water. in the vättern, the largest drinking water reservoir in northern europe, our defence forces are practicing sniping. this means that large quantities of toxic waste in the form of ammunition are disappearing into the water that actually supplies drinking water to more than a quarter of a million people. climate change is also likely to make more europeans want to draw their water from this drinking water reservoir, the vättern. it is time to prioritise drinking water as one of the most important safety issues. the waters of the river should be a matter of national concern. over the next few years, we will have to invest heavily in our water treatment plants to remove pharmaceutical residues, microplastics and other toxins and chemicals.
mr. chairman, i must confess that i do not understand anything about the elections in bosnia and herzegovina and the comments of my colleagues here in parliament regarding the president of the neighborhood. what's the matter with them? they are bothered that the candidate, they say, was chosen not only by croats but also by some others. well, let's say that it is. well, isn't that what we've been begging people for 27 years? that they behave not as ethnicities, not as nationalists, but as citizens. and once they do, that's a problem. what's the other problem? well, not enough croat. yes, he is croat, he is not a nationalist. that's what bothers them: that man is not a nationalist. but i don't see anywhere in the dayton accords that the presidency is reserved for nationalists. and third, colleagues don't understand that when you support nationalists then you get nationalists, and then you complain afterwards that all the nationalists in bosnia and herzegovina are nationalists. president komšić must be supported by the european community and he is always welcome here.
mr president, at the beginning of this year we saw the facebook cambridge analytic scandal unfolding, an event of major proportions. we saw how our private data was harvested without our consent and subsequently used for political purposes – not a small one, but the biggest and most important one. the reaction was justifiably harsh. a common voice from all over this parliament protested about the illegal use of private data. mr zuckerberg himself stood here and spoke about the change. he promised better security and assured us that something like this would never happen again. and why is it that, just a month ago, we saw another facebook security breach aimed at our private data? how many more ‘sorrys’ are we going to have from mr zuckerberg? i don’t think there is any meaning in asking him anything anymore. i therefore urge the commission and this parliament to respond appropriately and prevent this from happening again. we need stronger privacy rules and we need better enforcement of existing laws in order to have our personal data information secured.
mr president, i would like to thank you. what we have learned so far about the circumstances of the murder of saudi journalist jamal khashoggi is appalling and i very rarely agree with the turkish president, who does not have a good reputation for human rights. but in this case, i also want to emphasize that it is not enough to blame the security men who carried out the murder. someone or some planned, someone ordered. we need an independent and impartial investigation. my thoughts on saudi arabia's respect for the human rights of its citizens have never been high but now the saudis have crossed all borders. it is frightening that it is a country with which many eu countries have close ties, not least because of its arms exports. i'd like to argue that any sale to the saudis at this point is against our common rules. in this parliament we have repeatedly called for an arms embargo against saudi arabia. it is an honour for mrs merkel to want to stop german exports, but it is time for more people to follow suit. and it is time to implement the embargo, mrs mogherini. in fact, anything else would be shameful.
madam president, the russian activities in the sea of azov are, of course, illegal actions against ukraine, they are part of the warfare against ukraine. but they are more than that. this is a violation of the freedom of the seas: it violates international laws; it is a demonstration that russia does not respect the order of the international community. it is an action against us all. it is an action against european sea vessels. and, of course, we need to react because if we can’t demonstrate to russia that it is not acceptable for it to break international laws in the sea of azov we are opening the way to further such action by russia in other parts of the world and also directed at the european union and its member states. madam president, high commissioner, we need to be firm regarding sanctions and firm in telling the russians that we do not accept this – not in the sea of azov and not anywhere else.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the exchange of information is generally good, especially with regard to third-country nationals. we need to control who moves within the eu's borders. i shall therefore vote in favour of this proposal. but do not forget the crippling internal border controls. sweden has been heavily criticised this week for its lack of border controls in a classified report. rejected by the eu on 95 counts. but we don't know exactly what that is, and we're not allowed to know. but even functioning border controls do not solve all problems. the length of an asylum procedure in sweden is about 500 days. many of those who are rejected refuse to accept the decision. the eu should urge member states like sweden to make return more efficient, with shorter processing times and more storage facilities, which unfortunately is needed.
madam president, unfortunately i could at this moment repeat the same conclusions from any of the past three years’ council meetings, because it’s very obvious that the leaders are failing european citizens’ expectations miserably and profoundly. we have delivered on climate change and security, but when it comes to migration, there is a complete failure. council does not deliver. this parliament acted responsibly. after careful studies and consultations, we made difficult compromises and came up with a text on the reform of the dublin regulation that a two—thirds majority of this plenary – this house – could tolerate. meanwhile, in the ivory tower far away from any contact with citizens and reality, heads of state are throwing insults at each other and refusing any compromise. frankly, i find this embarrassing for this union. council has not made one single step of progress. and i would just ask this: when can we foresee any kind of result from the council?
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to focus on the migration part of the council's work. here in parliament we have worked to create a system of legal and safe roads, where we share the responsibility for receiving people in a dignified manner. in the council, mr tusk, you focus exclusively on repressive measures, cooperation with dictatorships and shifting responsibility onto third countries. it's a dangerous alignment with orbán, the pis, austria and the far right. they're obsessed with shutting down our continent. it's not the future. it's an unacceptable policy. it's a dead end. it is time to take responsibility, to put together a coalition of willing countries that want to share the responsibility of taking in refugees, that want europe to live up to the international law of asylum. it is time to have proper life-saving operations in the mediterranean, not to criminalise those who do something when member states and europe leave people in need. so again: take responsibility, put this proposal for 10,000 new border guards and mass expulsions in the paper. we need to respect the right to asylum and save people in the mediterranean.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by saying a few words about the discussion that took place earlier. i find it a little boring when a discussion goes a little off the rails like it did. i understand that you have different views and you have to be able to respect each other. there are many people in this chamber with whom i do not share my views, but i would never try to stop you from having your own views. i believe deeply in democracy, and i find it very sad when such scenes are played out as they have been. i would just like to say very quickly that i am a little disappointed that at the last summit absolutely nothing was achieved on brexit. they were sitting in the grande place drinking beer in the early evening and it shows how little effort was made to reach such a solution. where, i wonder, did the night owls go in such an important matter? has all the will to find a solution to this gone? so now is the time for both sides to get serious about finding a solution to the brexit issue.
madam president, first of all, banking legislation: in order to reach a compromise, the council needs to understand there is a need for compromising, and then we can achieve a lot. africa: a continent of hope and despair. countries in war but also countries with growth. when china wants to increase chinese power, we need to support african democracy. when the us makes itself smaller, we need to get taller. when china gets meaner, we need to be keener. regarding frameworks and agreements for trade, investments, modernisation, new infrastructure: doing what we can in order to have the best possible development in this continent of huge opportunities and one of our most important neighbours. brexit: let’s hope for democracy. let’s hope that the millions of people wanting to stay can make their voices heard. but letʼs also ensure that we can get the best possible agreement if there is no change. of course, the united kingdom is an important part of europe and an important country, and we need to safeguard the best possible relationship. russia: let’s not underestimate what russia is doing to the europe of today. cyber warfare, hacking, destabilisation, warfare (as in ukraine), repression, corruption: let’s be strong in standing together and do what we can regarding africa, safeguard ourselves against russia and ensure that we can have the best possible economic development. then we will be strong in the world.
mr president, the illicit trafficking of antiquities is estimated at usd 6 billion per year, of which part is certainly contributing to the financing of terrorism. we have rules to prohibit the trade of cultural goods with iraq and syria and we also have legislation that regulates the export of cultural goods, but no rules regulating the import of cultural goods into the eu. this gap obviously has to be filled. unfortunately, the text we have in front of us today is far from perfect. i would prefer a less detailed text that did not impose on the art importers the requirement to provide documents that sometimes they cannot have, and that lets customs authorities concentrate on the goods that can – and could – contribute to the financing of terrorism. i hope these flaws will be corrected in trilogue, introducing smooth dialogue and user—friendly procedures for art importers that will allow them to safely import cultural goods into the eu and, for the goods that run a higher risk of being exposed to illicit trade, setting up a more thorough procedure so that custom authorities have the power and means to properly check the goods in question.
mr president, i would like to thank you. antibiotic resistance is already a life-threatening condition if you are born prematurely, have a serious illness, or undergo a major operation. we must therefore put an end to the indiscriminate use of antibiotics in animal husbandry, so that antibiotics really work when you are sick. i am glad that we are now making progress and that we want to ban the use of antibiotics for preventive purposes in healthy groups of animals. but there are still many examples where we need to go even further to really protect both vulnerable groups already suffering from antibiotic resistance, but also animals and livestock farming. i therefore want to see even stricter rules on how and when antibiotics are used, so that the eu can be a strong voice for a responsible antibiotics policy globally. it's a win-win to reduce antibiotics in animal husbandry. it's a win-win for animal welfare, for whoever is sick today, and for antibiotic resistance in the world.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the transport sector is the only sector where emissions have still increased since 1990. if we are to achieve the goals we set out in the paris agreement, it is time that road transport starts paying for its environmental costs. distance-based charges for heavy vehicles are a step in the right direction. it makes freight transport by fossil-fuelled trucks more expensive, but thereby strengthens the competitiveness of rail and boat freight transport and thus also provides incentives for the environmental efficiency of truck transport. however, it is incomprehensible how conservative groups propose that the revenue from the kilometre tax should go to new parking spaces or motorways. it is completely unreasonable and undermines the green transition to a sustainable transport sector. so it is time to take responsibility and vote for aggressive measures to incentivise a green transition in the transport sector.
mr president, this house should know that my group, the ecr group, was blocked from signing this joint text because of the childish political games of the socialist, greens and the gue groups. despite having worked together to try and agree on a resolution that would condemn violence by both communist or nazi extremists, those groups were more concerned with childish political games than having a statement that this parliament ensures free speech but does not tolerate provocation to violence. shame on them.
mr president, could we possibly have a block vote on the remaining amendments and speed up the process? (applause)
the rapporteur. i am pleased to see that the commission has taken this step. the regulation on the governance of the eu's energy union and on climate action is one of the most significant regulations we have been able to deliver in energy and climate policy during this mandate. for the first time, we have a unified and unifying tool to bring order to climate policy. we would never have got here without the skilled colleagues from the green group. i would like to highlight the great work of michèle rivasis and claude turmes on this legislation, but without underestimating my colleagues from the other political groups who, together with the commission and the council of ministers, have shown a great willingness to compromise. we often disagree, not least on climate policy, but given the very urgent situation, i am very happy that we have been able to come together, to agree and to show a common willingness to compromise. we can no longer afford to be passive. we can no longer put off the deeper green transition into the future. the consequences of climate change are becoming more and more obvious, and we see how it will become more and more costly and painful if we do not act. in sweden, this summer was the hottest in a long time. we had serious forest fires all over the country, and had it not been for the help we received from our european colleagues, the situation would have been very problematic. now we're seeing the fires in california, too. the situation is becoming more acute in more and more countries. in recent weeks, we've been getting reports from the ipcc on how far we are from meeting our climate goals. that is why this regulation is so important. it's a roadmap for us to achieve the paris agreement. we're seeing a clear climate policy framework to get us all the way to paris now beginning to take shape as we finally get to a zero-emission goal. we are demanding that all countries must produce national energy and climate plans and that a mechanism be put in place to identify when our actions are not in line with our objectives, so that we can correct course with a firm target towards paris. this regulation also creates long-term rules of the game for european businesses and industries. european companies need to know what is going on, what strategies, what technologies european countries will be investing in, so that they know that the investments they make in new and green technologies will be profitable. this legislation also shows how the eu is for the first time starting to work with carbon budgets. it is an important and historic step towards having a scientifically sound climate policy. the climate will not be saved by fancy speeches but by science-based policies and carbon accounting. this regulation is a first important step towards the union taking its climate responsibility. with this roadmap, we are now laying the foundations for a future climate policy framework that ensures that the eu is doing its part to achieve the goals of the paris agreement.
the committee on employment and social affairs has tabled an opinion. president. - the debate is closed. this week, europe is taking another step towards a more efficient and climate-smart society. all the calculations show that the more energy we save, the better it is for society, the climate, human health, our energy security. we are also creating new jobs and growth by investing in more efficient energy use. it's a real win-win-win. as the lead negotiator for the environment committee, i've been involved throughout the process. i was of course particularly pleased to see the environment committee's ambition to achieve 40% energy savings by 2030. i have unfortunately seen some dilution of that position and i can see that we did not really go all the way. however, we were able to reach many good decisions and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the very good cooperation. with a target of 32.5% more energy efficiency by 2030, hundreds of thousands of new jobs will be created in europe while reducing climate emissions, reducing our fossil fuel imports and improving health. thanks to this, we are making a very big win-win for europe.
madam president, i would like to thank you. as i said, we are making historic decisions, as many colleagues have pointed out. we are laying the foundations for greater energy security within the union, where we are not dependent on third countries outside the union. we are taking clear steps towards achieving the goals we set out in the paris agreement. but is this enough? i dare say it's not actually. that is why we have included in this and other environmental and climate legislation, such as the ets regulation, a review clause which means that after we have made the major review of the paris agreement 2023, we will also review our own legislation to see if it is sufficiently robust. i am particularly pleased to have been involved in negotiating the renewable energy package, which is of the utmost importance not only for the energy transition but also for jobs across the european union. however, i am sorry to hear colleagues here today spreading a lie that is not true, that we who come from countries with a lot of forests only want to export biomass to those who have a lot of carbon. that's not true! what we want to do with our forest is make sure that we produce productive things from the fiber and don't burn the forest.
the rapporteur. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to thank you very much for this debate and to end by highlighting a particularly important aspect of this regulation. carbon budgets are one of the most important instruments we have to ensure a scientifically robust climate policy. it is an easy-to-understand and effective instrument to ensure that we achieve our climate goals. it is therefore important that this tool is now introduced in this legislation for the first time in an eu context. it is time that climate policy was treated as seriously as fiscal policy. a european carbon budget opens the door to that. then we can see, in black and white, how much carbon dioxide we have left to spend and match our climate action to that amount. just as europe's finance ministers are now being held accountable for their countries' budgets, i hope that the climate ministers of the member states will be held accountable in the same way. it should not be possible to overstep its country's carbon account without consequences. there's still more work to be done before we get there, but the vote tomorrow is an incredibly important first step. building on this work on the road to a future european cohesion, ambitious climate legislation, with a proper emissions budget for the union, we can bring order to climate policy. we must take seriously the concerns of citizens about the extreme weather events we are now seeing around europe. we need to make sure that our voters get the climate policy that they expect.
member of the commission. – madam president, on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank you for putting this important issue of minority rights in the european union on the agenda of the european parliament. one of the key assets of the european union is diversity: diversity of languages, cultures, traditions, religions and origins. after all, as has been said here, our motto is ‘united in diversity’. besides, our union rests on the values of human dignity, equality, the rule of law and human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. any discrimination against national minorities is explicitly prohibited under article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights. however, as noted in your report, the european union and the commission have no overall competence to rule on the protection of national minorities. these questions fall under the sole responsibility of the member states, which have an obligation to guarantee minorities the full enjoyment of their human rights. in that respect, the commission closely monitors the transposition of the relevant eu legal framework. this includes the race equality directive, the employment equality directive, the framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia by means of criminal law, the eu free movement acquis and the audiovisual media services directive. to extend the current anti-discrimination legislation, the commission proposed, ten years ago already, the horizontal equality directive. i take this opportunity to call on all member states to adopt this proposal, which will benefit many while disadvantaging nobody. we are also doing substantial work to tackle discrimination, racism and xenophobia. we have a high level group on non-discrimination, equality and diversity, a group on racism and xenophobia and the national roma contact points network. all this work brings together representatives from member states to exchange good practices and put non-discrimination, hate speech and hate crime on their national agendas. the commission is also promoting best practices regarding the democratic participation of underrepresented groups. this topic will be part of the discussion at the annual colloquium on fundamental rights, dedicated this year to democracy. promoting minority languages is also an important driver for social and economic inclusion. the commission has recently adopted a proposal for a council recommendation on improving the teaching and learning of languages by taking the multitude of linguistic realities into account. we also have the rights, equality and citizenship programme, the erasmus programme and the creative europe programme. besides, the commission raises awareness on the importance of language learning through public events like the european day of languages or the national awards of the european language label for innovative learning projects. let me conclude by emphasising that the commission strives – and will continue to do so under the next financial framework – to ensure that fundamental rights – and in particular the right to non-discrimination – are respected when eu law is implemented. where we cannot propose legislation, we will use a soft law instrument, exchange of best practices and funding to help promote the rights of minorities.
in writing. – there is a well-known saying: ‘a country should be judged on the basis of how it treats its minorities’. this sentence can also be applied to the eu, where we cannot be proud of ourselves yet. the commonly set values in our treaties demand respect for human rights and human dignity, equality and non-discrimination, also concerning the rights of minorities; however, reports by the eu fundamental rights agency (fra), ngos and watchdog organisations show us a very sad reality. our work is not done until we safeguard that people belonging to minorities can learn and use their language without limitations, can practice their traditions without fear, can live without being deprived of their rights and discriminated against in all spheres of life, and can participate in policymaking and decision-making processes. to achieve this, those in power have to take equal responsibility for people belonging to minority groups; they have to actively fight all forms of discrimination, condemn and impose sanctions for hate speech and hate crime, and they have to ensure minorities’ representatives participate in decision-making. furthermore, they have to raise mainstream society’s awareness of the history of minority groups and mark their commemoration days.
madam president, i would like to thank you. on my way here, i crossed a number of ancient national borders, which remind you of what we have been trying to create on this continent since 1945: a union without borders dedicated to peace and openness. unfortunately, my own government has recently chosen to go in the opposite direction. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. the reason given is internal security and concerns about terrorism. however, the number of returning jihadists has declined sharply. the 2015 refugee wave is just a trickle. it can therefore be said that the measures are not aimed at preventing terrorism, but rather at reducing the influence of the extreme right by giving them a message of 'racism light'. the dream of 1945 is still possible. it is important to remember this these days, as we remember how many people died on these battlefields on this continent. the functioning of internal borders within the eu naturally presupposes the existence of functioning external borders. but that dream is possible, and that's the path we should take.
madam president, i hear a lot of my colleagues here arguing what is lacking in the commission proposal: somewhat more agriculture subsidies, support for youth employment, more regional funds, etc. all that is fine, but what i personally find lacking here is the answer to this question: what kind of europe do we want to be? should the eu do everything, or should we be big on the big things and small on the smaller things? for my part, i want the eu to tackle the challenges that we have to tackle together: all the national challenges – migration, terrorism, the deepening of the single market, climate change, etc. but i also i want us to reflect on the lines that haven’t been effective at all – like the globalisation fund, for example. so the mff should be a reflection on our priorities, not the ugly christmas tree where everybody wants more and nobody wants less.
mr president, i would like to thank chancellor angela merkel: trust and european values are really the key message in your speech, and for that i thank you. the cases of lampedusa, of aquarius, clearly show that what we need in europe today is a common european asylum system based on humanity, on european values and on solidarity. the dublin file is still blocked in council, and i would like to ask you, what can you do during the days to come to unblock and enable us to deliver on a common european asylum system before the elections so that trust and solidarity – and even reconciliation – can remain a core message of the european institutions? i wish you all the best for your future, and i thank you for everything that you have done for this union. (applause)
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the common regulatory framework for the control of exports of military technology and equipment is binding on the member states, but when you see how it is applied, it is hard to believe that this is actually the case. for example, we cannot issue an export licence if there is a clear risk that the military technology or equipment to be exported could be used in serious violations of international humanitarian law, or used for internal repression, such as torture and other serious human rights violations. however, this is precisely what is happening in both yemen and saudi arabia, as we all know - in yemen, flagrant violations of international humanitarian law, and in saudi arabia, serious violations of human rights. the attacks on the port of hodeidah have dramatic repercussions for the population, already badly affected by cholera and famine. in saudi arabia, bloggers are imprisoned, and journalists are murdered. the fact that member states continue to sell arms to saudi arabia means that we are complicit in this if we do not put an end to it. with an eu embargo, we can stop all arms exports, not just new sales. that is why we have so often called for an embargo in this parliament, but the member states seem to care more about jobs at home than about the suffering of people in other countries. under our common rules, jobs are never grounds for arms exports. we have also asked in this parliament that the embargo be extended to other countries in the saudi-led coalition. instead of an embargo, however, the commission is preparing a multi-billion-dollar european defence fund. it will lead to even greater excess capacity for war material in europe and an even greater need to be able to export to the cretaceous and the pleto to make it fit together.
mr president, the eu is collectively the second largest arms supplier in the world. this is the reality, even if we know that disarmament is an imperative for human rights and human security. also, goal 16 in the sustainable development goals (sdg) states that peace, stability and human rights are deeply connected to sustainable development. we must control the weapons in the world, but most of all, we must act for a complete and global disarmament. we have to change the global agenda on security. the first priority must be to make every individual secure in their daily life. this is security – human security. we, the eu, should not supply the world with arms. our moral and human duty is to supply the world with peace. i am a proud pacifist.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the eu competition rules and the national competition authorities which are able to enforce them are the cornerstone of the proper functioning of our single market. however, many breaches of the competition laws still do occur. each year losses of about eur 250 billion happen because of the undiscovered cartels. these cartels are not raising the prices by 5% or 10%; they are raising prices by up to 30% and this situation is of course unsustainable. why is it happening? because the national competition authorities cannot enforce the rules. some of them do not have proper human, technical and financial resources, some do not have proper tools in order to detect competition law infringements. not all of the authorities can impose fines and not all competition authorities interpret competition law in the same way. my colleague, andreas schwab, in his excellent report has proposed to solve these problems. he proposed to reinforce the impartiality of national competition authorities, to provide them with a greater budgetary autonomy, to allow them to carry out joint inspections and to harmonise somehow the level of fines against competition infringement in the eu. this report is aimed for better implementation of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. as is said in article 102: ‘any abuse by one or more undertakings of a dominant position within the common market [...] shall be prohibited as incompatible with the common market’. i therefore urge the member states and this parliament to swiftly conduct a negotiation on the matter.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the mediterranean is deadlier than ever, according to the unhcr report of 3 september this year. at the time of writing, 1,600 people had died or been reported missing on the way to europe so far this year. unhcr claims that more are dying now, even though fewer are actually fleeing, and calls on us to create more legal pathways for refugees. the question must be asked what the eu has done wrong when more people are dying on the way to europe, even though fewer are actually fleeing. one argument for the turkey deal, barbed wire fences at the eu's external borders and various other devices to get people to opt out of europe as a potential escape route was that they would be kindly waiting in refugee camps outside, and then be allowed to come here legally, but without any real prospect of being able to come here legally. the result was new and more dangerous escape options, slave-like conditions in the libyan desert, etc. we have been arguing in this parliament for many years that humanitarian visas are needed to save lives and to break up the market for human smugglers, but the council has totally rejected this. the council's response to the problem is instead tougher surveillance of our borders and agreements with other countries to take in all those whom the member states wish to send back. the rapporteur will of course have our green support tomorrow.
member of the commission. – madam president, it is a pleasure to be here today for the debate on the commission proposal setting co2 emission standards for heavy—duty vehicles. following the debate last month on the proposal on co2 emission standards for cars and vans, this is another key proposal to implement the 2030 climate and energy framework and continue to follow up on our commitments under the paris agreement. shortly before the upcoming cop24 in katowice, the recent intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) special report on 1.5 degrees celsius has once again demonstrated the urgency of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in all sectors. this is the first time ever that we are making a proposal to set co2 standards for heavy—duty vehicles. we do this for a number of reasons. first, we need to act to tackle the growing co2 emissions from heavy—duty vehicles. without action, these emissions – which represent almost 25% of road transport emissions – are set to increase by almost 10% by 2030. this new legislation will therefore help to reduce emissions from heavy—duty vehicles, while also supporting the member states in meeting their binding national targets under the effort sharing regulation. we also need to act to keep europe’s industrial leadership. as has been said by the rapporteur, other countries, such as the united states, china and japan, have already set emissions standards and competition in the global market is fierce. this legislation will contribute to europe’s economic prosperity and global competitiveness, keeping us at the forefront of developing low—carbon solutions. finally, we need to act to support our transport companies’ savings on fuel. fuel today accounts for about one quarter of transport companies’ operating costs. this legislation will bring fuel savings to the 600 000 small and medium—sized enterprises that operate in the european union freight transport sector and employ almost three million people. your vote today is therefore instrumental to allow the adoption of this proposal during the current legislative term. we need to give a clear and stable regulatory signal to our industry as soon as possible because this will stimulate the right investments in the transition towards low and eventually zero—emission mobility. i therefore want to thank the rapporteur mr eickhout for his very hard work on this proposal, bringing together very rapidly the position of the european parliament. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their efforts in the same direction. the commission proposal, underpinned by a thorough impact assessment, is both ambitious and realistic because it strikes the right balance between the three main policy objectives, which cannot be considered in isolation: first, achieving environmental benefits; second, bringing savings for transport operators; and third, supporting employment, growth and competitiveness. as this is the first time this sector is being regulated and in view of the uncertainties on some key data, a stepwise approach is followed. the proposed 15% and 30% targets by 2025 and 2030 will bring significant environmental benefits, estimated at around 54 million tonnes of co2 in the period 2020 to 2030. this is equivalent to the total annual emissions of sweden. an early review is foreseen in 2022 to expand the scope and set the 2030 binding targets based on additional information on new technologies. besides the targets, the proposal includes an incentive system to speed up the transition to zero— and low—emission vehicles. the situation in this sector is different than for cars. there are virtually no large zero—emission trucks on european roads, and today 98% of the trucks rely on diesel, while almost all manufacturers have announced plans for zero—emission vehicles. we therefore propose to support the deployment of these technologies through a system of super credits, while preserving the environmental integrity of the co2 targets. let me conclude by saying once again that the commission remains fully supportive of the efforts of the european parliament and the council to conclude the discussion on this proposal within this legislative term. i look forward to continuing to work with you and bringing it to a successful conclusion.
for the ppe group. president. - the debate is closed. if we are to meet the climate challenge, we need to reduce emissions from heavy transport and radically. it is therefore good that we now have this legislative proposal, so that for the first time in the eu we are taking seriously the issue of reducing emissions from heavy duty vehicles. however, this is the first time we are doing this, and therefore we should do it with a certain humility. after all, it is not we in this room, in this house, who are seriously implementing the reduction of co2 emissions from trucks and buses, but it is the skilled technicians of the vehicle manufacturers with the right conditions who can make the difference. this often and rapidly develops into a bidding process, where the impression is given that those with the highest demands for emission reductions are the ones that are most beneficial to the climate. i would argue, however, that it is wrong. it is those who find the right level and create the strongest incentives for technological development that make the real difference. we need to find a level that the technicians can deliver. above all, we must ensure that the vehicles produced are those which anyone can afford to buy. it is only by replacing the old trucks and buses with high emission levels that we will really reduce emissions. unfortunately, i do not think that the committee on the environment will succeed in doing so, for three main reasons. the first is that they say we're going to raise the ambition for 2025 to 20 percent reduction. so these are trucks and buses that have already been developed, they are being developed, and this will not change them. the only question is whether there will be high fines. that's the second problem for the one who fails. the last requirement, which we find difficult to understand how it will actually help to reduce emissions, is to ask for a specific share of low-emission vehicles, in practice electric as early as 2025. we need a switch to electricity, but we in this house do not know and cannot determine exactly when that technological change will occur. that is why i am trying to order technical development here. i am sorry, but it is not possible. that is why we should vote against those demands.
mr president, we need to ensure that those who are elected to the european parliament and to all the national parliaments are elected in order to do their best for their nation and to do their best for europe and not for those who want to divide and destabilise us. we need to ensure that neither russia nor anyone else can influence the elections but there let’s also be aware, this is not anything that is going on just during elections, it is going on now and there is a link between money-laundering by estonia, novichok in salisbury, rumours in germany, cyberattacks in france and cyberattacks in all of our countries. let’s not be naive, this is not a threat, it is something that is going on right now and it is implemented in order to undermine democracy and the rule of law. and those foreign actors, they have the help and the support of those forces inside here, who would like to undermine the rule of law and democracy. this is a fight for democracy and freedom. let’s be clear that we shall disclose those who do it, we shall have transparency, we shall sanction, and we shall do with criminal actions what is required to do with the criminal actions. we shall ensure that they are punished and they are revealed and disclosed and that we can safeguard our european union.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. today, we take an important step towards creating a toxic-free everyday life for our children and our communities. we must limit the use of substances such as ddt and dioxins - long-lived organic compounds that do not degrade. these substances can cause chronic diseases, and they are carcinogenic. they affect the central nervous system and act as endocrine disruptors in the reproductive system. we ingest these harmful substances through food, as they are stored in animal fat. what we are legislating on today is to update the eu's chemicals legislation in line with the stockholm convention to restrict the use of these non-degradable organic compounds. we are also clarifying the role of the european chemicals agency. our children should not be exposed to these poisons in their daily lives. this decision is therefore an important 'green step' in the fight for a toxic-free everyday life.
madam president, i would like to thank you. every day we are exposed to a variety of chemicals. they're in our everyday lives. they are in toys, food packaging, our clothing, the water we drink, even in the dust we may throw under the carpet. for a large number of these substances, we do not know what the effects are for us humans and for the environment, even though they should only be proven safe substances in our daily lives. the pops regulation contains some of the worst substances known to man, including brominated flame retardants, such as decabde, which are regulated by the stockholm convention. however, the recycling of these substances into plastics, for example, does not make them any less dangerous. recycled plastic is not going to make us healthier, so it's important that we do two things at the same time: both make better recycling and make sure that we have a toxic-free everyday. i will therefore fight to keep the limit value for decabde in line with the report of the committee on the environment, i.e. 10 mg/kg. this is important for human health, it is important for the environment and it is also important for the public's confidence in recycled materials to remain intact.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. that's not surprising when it comes to president trump. anything can happen. most of the time, what he does is very disturbing. it is not least worrying that on 20 october this year he terminated the agreement between the united states and the soviet union on the elimination of medium and short-range missiles. the question is how we in the eu and the member states should react to what comes in the form of a letter in the post. firstly, we want to ensure that mrs mogherini, the presidency and the member states do everything possible to ensure that the agreement remains in force. secondly, we believe that it is clear that a new initiative is needed to achieve total nuclear disarmament in europe and that a regional nuclear-weapon-free zone is needed, as the un calls for in its resolution 3472 b of 1975. however, as long as there is no new agreement in place, it is crucial that we stick to the various disarmament agreements that already exist. with american nuclear weapons in europe and russian nuclear weapons close to our borders, and with both the british and the french continuing to invest in their nuclear arsenals, the prospects are slim for an eu decision to join together the new un convention on the prohibition of nuclear weapons. thirdly, we should therefore join the convention. nuclear weapons in europe are not going to make us safe. on the contrary, it is not difficult to imagine that europe could once again risk becoming the great battlefield and that nuclear-armed medium-range missiles could detonate on european soil if something goes wrong. we can and should therefore take the lead in disarmament, but it is also crucial that other countries, including russia, the united states and china, support all disarmament agreements, including bilateral ones.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? we need "care without subordination". these famous words come from gertrud åström, who laid the foundation for the strategic work on gender equality in my home country, sweden. the care sector is female-dominated and underpaid. some of the most important jobs in our society - caring for children and young people, the sick and the elderly - are so heavy and poorly funded that almost no one can afford to work full-time. no machine or smart robot can offer what a human can - a warm hand, comfort, kind words in the moments when life is most challenging. it scares me and makes me angry that our nurses and doctors barely have time to eat lunch or go to the toilet, that the kindergartens cannot find trained teachers, that our old people are denied a moment of fresh air, and that women have to be afraid to give birth because the midwives are on strike. this can't go on! in my community, we prioritize women's work. we'll give it a higher status and a decent salary.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this is a very important feminist issue, as it affects women's daily lives and society at large. however, i think that the report goes too far. the way in which member states organise their care should be left to member states and no one else. however, the gender perspective is extremely important and cannot be stressed enough. women and men in the eu participate in the labour market to different degrees. women take the lead in child care and unpaid domestic work. some leave the workforce for a while. some of them never come back. the situation is devastating economically. for the woman, the income is less, not to mention the pension. in addition, society loses a lot of money because women do not work as much as men. women are also discriminated against in care. women have less access to care, have longer waiting times, and their concerns are not taken as seriously as men's. we have to talk about all this! we must take all this into account in our political work! all of us in this house have just as much responsibility, whether we are women or men!
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? the tick is a stealth epidemic. every year, around 800 000 europeans are affected by lyme disease, causing great human suffering. there's an explanation for why tick-borne diseases like tbe and lyme disease are on the rise. forests love humid and warm weather, and that's what climate change is giving us. climate change is accelerating and is more widespread in our northern hemisphere. the european union has already adopted a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. the problem of a warmer climate and the spread of ticks goes hand in hand with other health problems. extreme weather spreads bacteria, not just in water, but in food. new diseases and viral infections are spreading in europe. we therefore need a common eu strategy to deal with this silent epidemic of lyme disease. this is a symptom of the great challenge we face: stopping climate change and living up to the paris agreement.
member of the commission. – mr president, almost two years ago, the european union, our member states and cuba, signed a new agreement – the so—called political dialogue and cooperation agreement – which opened a new chapter in our relations with cuba. around a year ago this agreement entered into provisional application, after having received parliament’s overwhelming support in its assent vote. while there is broad—ranging agreement on political dialogue and cooperation, it was very clear from the beginning that human rights should be a central part of it, and even before its formal application we started holding human rights discussions, both in brussels and havana. last may, at the joint council meeting, federica mogherini and the cuban foreign minister decided to start formal political dialogues on a number of areas. the very first formal political dialogue we had with cuba was precisely the human rights one held last month in havana. this was an important point for us to underline the continued relevance of human rights in our bilateral relations. for the first time, it involved the participation of our eu member states as observers, and the organisation of a civil society seminar in its margins. we all know that there are still important differences between the eu and cuba on many issues, notably on the way human rights and democracy are applied. this is why during last month’s human rights dialogue we raised important matters, such as the need for ratification and implementation of the relevant international instruments on human rights, proper legal guarantees in criminal proceedings, freedom of association and expression, and the protection of human rights defenders. the civil society seminar that was organised in the margins of the dialogue tackled the situation of lgbti groups and gender equality. while only registered cuban civil society organisations were able to attend the seminar on this occasion, we recalled the importance to enlarge these discussions to the whole range of civil society, whether registered or not. i would like to give some numbers about our projects. most of these projects, indeed for around eur 10 million, are implemented by european and cuban civil society organisations, including religious organisations. vulnerable cuban people’s rights have been specifically addressed by a number of these projects – women, elderly people, people with disabilities and lgbti – lesbian, gay, bisexual and so on. we will continue raising this, and all other subjects that are close to our hearts, with our cuban counterparts in different meetings. human rights need to be promoted on a day—to—day basis. i would like to reiterate our conviction that the best way to address the differences we have with cuba in these matters is through a process of dialogue based on clear and consistent messages. it is certainly difficult and trying, but it is the best manner to sustain results in the long term and to contribute to cuba’s and its population’s path to reform and modernisation.
author. – mr president, we in the eu must remind bangladesh of its international human rights obligations. there is a visible increase in attacks on, and arrests of, journalists, students, human rights defenders and members of the political opposition. this crackdown on civil society must stop. bangladesh must safeguard media freedom and freedom of expression and release all activists, journalists and students. the rates of early marriage are still alarmingly high in bangladesh. it has one of the highest rates of child marriage in the world. bangladesh has to ensure that the minimum age of marriage for women is 18, without exceptions. i also urge the government of bangladesh not to return thousands of rohingyas living in the refugee camps in cox’s bazar to myanmar against their will and in spite of objections by the un.
mr president, the employment rate for women is 12% lower than for men. one in four people in the eu lives at risk of poverty and over half of them are women. the main reason is the difficulties that arise when families have children or when they have to care for elderly or disabled persons. those difficulties are due to the shocking lack of public care infrastructure and the persistent gender-based division of labour. it’s high time that the member states address this situation. it is actually 2018, even though not everybody has realised it. i urge member states to develop paternity leave, to step up efforts to provide good care for children, the elderly and disabled people, and to ensure equal opportunities for women and men regarding participation in the labour market. that’s why i voted for this report.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in its new climate strategy, the commission finally confirms what the paris agreement already commits the eu must become carbon neutral. it's both a welcome and a late insight. the commission has also recognised the value of the green transition. the strategy well describes how climate change can go hand in hand with economic development, enhanced competitiveness and new jobs. however, in the light of this, i am very critical of the fact that we are waiting until 2030 to start working on the new strategy. if you describe it as urgent, why not act now? it is crucial that this strategy is translated into new initiatives now stronger legislation, higher climate pricing and aggressive green investments. otherwise, the zero-emission target is impossible to achieve. it is time to act now because the climate cannot wait.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, mr lange and mr rübig, for your report. it is very timely and you highlight many of the challenges that the world trade organisation (wto) is facing. you also point at ways forward and they are very much in line with what we are trying to do in the commission with support from you and member states. it also sends a political signal in this moment that the european union is strongly committed to strengthening and to modernising and to preserving the wto. as you said, the multilateral trading system has been good for europe. it has been good for the world. we have had clear rules. it has been good for companies. it’s been good for economies. it has helped economies to grow, lifting hundreds of millions out of poverty and promoting stability and peace. as you say, the wto is now under huge pressure and experiencing a very, very severe crisis and, even though the wto is not perfect, without the wto, we would not be well off. that would be bad for us in europe and it would be really bad for the most vulnerable countries in the world. we in the european union depend on open, rule-based, fair trade. that is essential for our economic prosperity and that is why the european council, already in june last year, asked the commission to take forward comprehensive approaches to modernising the wto in its main functions – rulemaking, monitoring and dispute settlement – as a way out of the crisis. this was also echoed in the g20 meeting, for instance, so this is something that the whole world is aligned on. there are many threats to the wto. the appellate body is the most urgent one and there is a clear realisation about the need to resolve the appellate body crisis. until recently, we hadn’t seen a real strong awareness in the wto community about the urgent need to reform, but i think this is gradually changing. the european union is leading the reform efforts here and working with many other countries as well, and we are deepening and accelerating the work that i presented to you in september. there is a long list of challenges that need to be addressed – you mentioned them in your report – and it is absolutely necessary to put the wto at the centre of a rules-based, multilateral trading system. as i said, the appellate body is the most urgent challenge. we believe that the proposal that we put on the table this week, together with 11 other countries, is a credible basis to engage with the wto and show a way forward that would lead to a strengthened and modernised appellate body. we have also tabled, together with the us, japan and a handful of other countries, a proposal on transparency and notification, which is important for trust and the functioning of the wto internal procedures. we also need to address gaps in the wto rulebook. mr lange said that the rulebook is from 1995. absolutely. so, of course, we need to update it. we need to address issues such as non-market policies, forced technology transfer and other items. we are working with the us and japan to try to see if we can draft new rules in the wto on these, and, of course, there are many other issues as well. we are working together with a large group of wto members on e-commerce. there were more than 80 countries engaging in this in geneva as a result of the joint statement made in buenos aires almost a year ago – many of you were there – and that has translated to very active engagement and that is really good news. of course, there are the outstanding doha issues, the development issues, which are not to be forgotten. we need to address them as well. finally, i agree with you that more should be done to contribute to achieving the sustainable development goals, as we set out in the september paper. this is a vital strand of the wto modernisation. we are engaged in the fisheries subsidies. that is one key in this, of course, but we are also working on identifying how the wto could contribute to achieving the sustainable development goals. i am committed – and so are we all – to continuing to make every effort to engage with the wto membership. the members of the council of the eu countries are all supporting this strategy. we’re engaging with major trading partners, as well, to support our ideas and to push this forward. prospects are uncertain. they are gloomy and, therefore, i very much appreciate not only the support that you are giving to the commission, but also the hard work that you are doing and i encourage you to continue reaching out to parliamentarians across the world to support this as well. thank you very much for this very timely debate and i am looking forward to the debate.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the world trade organization, the wto, is facing two threats right now. first, the growing protectionism in the world, with more and more countries challenging regulated trade, most notably the united states. we have talked a lot about this, though. second, and this is just as important, the grave threat that the wto is becoming outdated, that it is actually failing to meet the challenges of our time, and of the future: chinese state capitalism, trade in services, digital trade, and our increasingly overregulated societies. that is why i say that anyone who defends world trade and the wto is defending reform of the wto. that is why the commission's proposal is very good. if we fail to do so, we will leave regulated trade. europe and countries like sweden will be the biggest losers. we'll leave behind a system of rules that govern trade, and instead the law of the strongest will govern. we must prevent this at all costs, and this work has only just begun.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, my thanks go to the rapporteur for the excellent report that shows that certain things are developing in a good direction in kosovo, especially when it comes to the economy and economic criteria. however, certain other issues have to be worked on: relations with serbia, certainly, and the rights of minorities, while the informal economy remains an issue, a big one. however, the ratification of the border agreement with montenegro in march 2018 was important, a major breakthrough. on this matter, kosovo showed that it fulfilled the criteria, together with the development of the economic area and together with the fight against corruption. it shows that it fulfilled the criteria to get the visa liberalisation, as the commissioner has stated. now it’s up to the council to do its job. we cannot play with kosovo, they fulfilled the criteria, we have to give them what we have promised.
madam president, i just want to remind everybody of something that the rapporteur has hinted at, which is what a tremendous sacrifice the citizens of northern macedonia have made. it has demanded a tremendous amount of energy and no other single european country would accept to change the name of a country, which is so deeply connected with identity. you can see from the reactions here in parliament from the nationalists as to how this affected it. so now i really beg the council, really beg, to fulfil our part of our obligation and start opening the negotiations as soon as possible. the commission has hinted it will do it. parliament will do it. it’s up to the council now, because if we let these people down we will lose every credibility and it will make a mess in the region of outrageous proportions. (applause)
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i find it astonishing that several eu countries are now, under the pressure of nationalism and racism, pulling out of the global agreement on migration. on the left we see major problems with the text before marrakech, but we fully support the need for global objectives and processes to deal with migration within the un framework. migration is not a problem. it is the exploitation of migrants, for example in the european labour market, that is a problem. we need to re-examine our foreign policy, the arms trade in europe, our climate emissions, which are driving people to leave and forcing them to move and migrate. this is what needs to change. we must also have these negotiations on a more equal footing between the north and the south. i think that this failure also shows very clearly that the eu is on the wrong track, that we have not been able to agree on anything here at home, that we are not accepting refugees with dignity, that we are allowing deaths to continue in the mediterranean, that we are putting up 10,000 border guards instead of talking about how to deal with migration and refugees in a dignified and human rights-based way. the criminalization of ngos that is happening now is terrible. i don't see why we... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the global compact is important as it recognises that migration is a global challenge that requires a global response and solidarity. there is nothing binding. richer countries have to share responsibility and, for example, do more resettlement. i regret that trump turned them back but, even worse, that some member states walked out. to just say ‘go home and stay home’ is no solution. no state can deal with migration alone. a common european response and global cooperation is the way forward to safe and legal migration because europe must work with third countries, from prevention to combating trafficking, and to implement return. it is also crucial to invest in africa in the long term. i was in agadez in niger with the european parliament delegation and, thanks to the eu’s effective action, we have reduced migration, we have saved lives, and we are combating trafficking: more of those partnerships. i look forward to participating, on behalf of the ppe group, in the european parliament... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i have a point of order. i’d like to take my name off the resolution by the committee on petitions (peti) on jugendamt. the text that we have just voted is not the draft text that i proposed. it has been substantially changed by the vote in the committee, and therefore i’d like to take my name off the text. this is not my text and should not be recorded as such.
madam president, albania has made significant progress, and this needs to be acknowledged and rewarded. that’s why i very much like the idea of supporting the accession negotiations with albania next year. while being aware of the progress that has been made, especially in the juridical reform, we have as well to point out the things that still remain to be done. the electoral reforms remain a concern. the issues of corruption, organised crime and good neighbourhood relations – the reforms in these areas are painful, but they have to be done; they are essential. the rule of law, respect for human rights and the fight against corruption have to be improved. with this goal, we should all ensure the opening of the negotiations and avoiding further backsliding.
madam president, i thank mr tannock for his excellent and detailed report. montenegro remains a frontrunner in the western balkans, with chapter 31 open, and we would like the process to continue on that path. however, certain things have to be pointed out, like the fact that media freedom remains an issue in that country. the olivera lakić case is one that should never happen in a country wishing to join the eu. freedom of expression needs to be guaranteed and attacks on journalists need to be condemned. i would also like to urge montenegrin officials to launch public awareness—raising campaigns to fight discrimination and violence against lgbt and roma people and to safeguard investigations and prosecutions in cases of crimes committed against them.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we must ban fossil fuels and realise our zero vision of a carbon-free europe, which we greens have fought for so long and which the european commission is now finally supporting. we're also facing the great extinction. sixty percent of the world's vertebrates have disappeared in the last 40 years. these are terrible and catastrophic figures which show where our focus must be, namely on safeguarding biodiversity and the habitats where animals still live. we need climate action now! more and more people want to live climate-smart and the awareness is increasing every day. however, there is a great deal of uncertainty about what is effective and whether the contribution of the small person really matters. then i really want to reassure everyone here today. your contribution is very important! about 25 percent of the population can change the direction of an entire society, and the critical mass is already there. in my home country of sweden, for example, about 24 percent of the population rank the climate challenge as the most important issue for the future. i welcome this proposal for an improved and more ambitious life programme. it is an important programme to accelerate the pace of change within the eu.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. yes, it is a great thing we have been able to accomplish to protect wage earners from dying from their jobs. it's a great job! we had a good proposal from the commission to start with, which would help us to achieve this, and we managed to improve this proposal so that it became superb, i would say. it is a blessing to be able to give away something that will mean a great deal to many individuals. i would also like to thank the rapporteur who has worked on this. he has had what we in sweden call 'ice in the belly', that is, a calmness in the face of a challenging situation. it was something that was required of all of us in order to accomplish this task. the limits we are voting on this week are precisely those recommended by scientists and the social partners. i also think that it is a demonstration of how we should legislate in the social field in the field of the labour market. it's the parties that are supposed to be very involved. without them, it's not gonna be okay. i hope that this can serve as an example for future legislative processes. as many of you are aware, we are also about to begin tripartite negotiations on the third round of limit values for these dangerous substances. i am convinced that we will be able to complete it before the end of the mandate. we got a bloody tooth. we want to make a difference. people shouldn't die from their jobs. they're gonna live off their jobs.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is a very important piece of legislation that we are discussing today. it is a little bit the crowning achievement of a lot of what the european union has actually come to achieve. if we go back just a few decades, if you were a swede travelling in europe, you were advised to 'beware of the eggs, beware of the chicken' because the risk was that you would get salmonella of such an aggressive nature that death might be imminent. i don't think we've ever had as much food security, food standards, food research and everything related to food and our health as we have today. we should cherish and respect that because it probably saves many lives around the european union every year and makes us healthier than we otherwise would be. at the same time, there is a pretty clear food poaching going on, food producers and food producers across the entire chain. what makes me a little nervous is that the commission is listening a little too much to a number of opponents who are quite few. we've all been able to follow the heated debate about glyphosate in here. no scientific evidence has been produced that we have mishandled glyphosate within the european union. yet we have a committee in the european parliament which is working on this very issue and it is the glyphosate issue which has raised this whole piece of legislation. as our colleague from the ecr said, this is legislation which affects tens of thousands of people who work in the field of food, food quality and foodstuffs. i think we need to ensure that we get a balance and it is clear that we will listen to the citizens when they come with demands for more transparency. however, we must find the balance and i feel that parliament is in danger of going too far in this. i was rather attracted by a proposal circulating in the council at the moment on the proposal of the austrian presidency. i think it strikes a better balance than the commission. we tried to reach an agreement with the socialist group, but unfortunately they backed out of this compromise. that is why we in alde will support the rapporteur's proposal on this. we believe that in the forthcoming negotiations, where i believe the commission has gone too far and has lost the balance, it is important that parliament weigh this. the consequence of going too far is that we're just releasing trade secrets. it doesn't build trust. it does not improve food security either, but it only drives industry out of europe and we cannot have that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. today we take a big, important step. we are calling on the european parliament to put an end to the dirty secrets in the authorisation procedure for pesticides, gmos, food additives and novel foods. democracy and science have a lot in common. they cannot be carried out properly in secrecy. they demand transparency. the row over the approval of the pesticide glyphosate in 2017 casts a gloomy light on the lack of transparency in this process of approving pesticides within the eu. the european citizens' initiative stop glyphosate was signed by more than 1.4 million citizens and the demands are in line with what we greens have always pushed for, namely that studies that underlie the implementation of such states of glyphosate should be made transparent and published in scientific journals. it shows we can make a difference! allegations of so-called industry-driven research and undue influence showed that lack of transparency undermines the quality of judgement as well as the trust of eu citizens in our institutions, and we will change that.
madam president, i’ve been standing here many times defending kosovo and kosovars on their way to the european union, believing the decisions taken by the government to have been mostly right, but this time i simply cannot do it. the decision to take 100% tariffs on the neighbouring countries, serbia and bosnia herzegovina, is just catastrophic. it will hurt the neighbouring countries’ economies, it will hurt the kosovan economy, and it will result in the loss of friends in the european union for kosovo. that’s why this decision has to be revoked immediately, because we need it for the sake of the region, for the needs of the country, and for the sake of european unity and europe’s friend kosovo.
madam president, first, a brexit in disorder causes damage to us all and must be avoided. second, the agreement on the banking package lays the ground for the banking union, but also for clear action in order to increase the potential growth of europe and the european union, and all these actions need to be taken. third, we need – as the council has said here – to counter russian disinformation. we need to be firm when we do it, but we also need to see this disinformation in a wider perspective: what happened in salisbury; money laundering via the baltic states and other places in europe, financing subversive activities in all parts of europe; the war in ukraine; the breach of international law in the sea of azov. if russia can breach international law in the sea of azov, it can do it in the baltic sea. this is a time when the european union must be firm against those who are threatening us and be clear about the fact that russia is a threat to europe. it wants to divide us, it wants to undermine us, and it wants to threaten our integrity. now is the time for council and commission to do the action that is required.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, monica hohlmeier and helga stevens, for a job well done. the terrorism report is an important step in promoting the security of europe's citizens. fortunately, we have avoided major terrorist attacks since barcelona last august, but unfortunately we must always remain vigilant. now i think with gratitude of all those in the police and other agencies who work every day in silence for our safety. if we in the european parliament can support those who are working in the field by helping to increase safety, then we have also contributed. finally, although i belong to a party which is critical of the european union, i would like to stress that on issues such as this, which concern the security of the citizens of europe, we are in complete agreement.
madam president, i would like to thank you. states don't trade with states. people trade with people and tomorrow's vote should be self-evident! the free trade agreement with japan is supposed to make it easier for europeans to trade with the japanese, or is it supposed to make it harder? although it is obvious, it is likely that one third of our colleagues here in the european parliament, and many swedes, will vote against tomorrow's vote. i am proud to be able to vote tomorrow on what will be the world's largest free trade agreement covering about a third of world trade, abolishing 99% of all tariffs, opening up services and procurement markets, working together to remove trade barriers and rules that impede trade. in an age of protectionism, of trump and of chinese expansion, we cannot overstate the value of this particular agreement. europe is shining like a bright light, perhaps in complete darkness. this means that the responsibility for those who vote 'no' tomorrow is very great. it's an irresponsibility beyond all reason.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you so much. thank you. i am going to speak about the annual report on the common security and defence policy which i am following on behalf of my group. i regret to say that it is very unbalanced, as is the case with most of the security and defence matters we are discussing in this parliament these days, and also with the longterm budget. the annual report ignores in principle altogether the fact that civilian operations are as or more relevant to discuss as military ones. especially when we compare the number of civilian and military operations and missions that we actually carry out. the focus of the annual report is military, although civilian operations are almost twice as many, 11 out of a total of 17. i do not deny that we face many security threats: military, climate, terrorism, cyber threats and natural disasters to name just a few. but we cannot solve them all with military means or with a two per cent target in the budget. we need a new security policy adapted to the 21st century, a security policy based on human security first. one of my amendments is to double the funds for civilian conflict prevention work. another is that we must avoid our civilian efforts being used to stop migrants in the future, and i hope to get support for them in the vote tomorrow. thank you, sir.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the connecting europe facility will determine the future of eu investment in transport and energy beyond 2020. to meet the paris agreement commitments, we need to invest in zero-emission transport rather than in the development of gas pipelines or motorways. despite the recent declaration by the european commission that the eu should become climate neutral, a proposal is now on the table as if these decisions had not been taken. it is incomprehensible that the majority in this parliament wants to design the connecting europe facility in a way that is totally incompatible with the commission's own climate strategy and the paris agreement. to keep global warming to a maximum of 1.5 degrees, the eu needs to invest in cross-border projects that promote renewable energy and sustainable transport systems. it is through investing in a fossil-free future that we have an opportunity to modernize our societies and achieve the climate-neutral project that we all want to see. we should decide that tomorrow!
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i wonder why so few people are protesting against the €13 billion in aid for the arms industry? it is a huge sum of money for an otherwise prosperous industry and it is the taxpayers who are paying the bill. this is particularly remarkable when we know that in the eu as a whole we have a huge overcapacity in arms and weapons systems. this leads to increased exports to the countries where the market is, that is to say, in the war-torn middle east. it's a shame, you know? the commission has shown that we can save 25 to 100 billion euros a year by working together and yet there are no mechanisms in the defence fund that lead to a reduction in duplication, fragmentation, corruption and overcapacity that we see today. it is rather like an in-blanco check where basically anything goes. parliament has stated on a number of occasions that we do not want the fund to be used to develop lethal autonomous weapons. the council didn't agree to it, so anything is possible, like i said. we have put forward proposals aimed at strengthening ethical controls so that we do not end up in a situation where the fund is used to develop weapons of mass destruction. you're welcome to vote for them.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. three years ago we adopted the paris agreement, and today, a month ago, the european parliament adopted legislation that says the eu must become climate neutral. right now, the cop 24 climate summit is taking place in katowice, poland. the time for talk is over, and now it's time for action. this is exactly what we can do now with the eu's research and innovation policy. we can make the decision to climate-proof it. we want one third of the proposed budget of 120 billion euros to go to the climate. it will be over £100 billion for renewable energy, sustainable transport and new climate-smart innovations. it will facilitate our joint work to get us all the way down to zero emissions.
mr president, my view differs from that of most of my colleagues here and from my own group. first of all, to tax american companies in europe, just because they are currently taxed in the usa and not in the european union, is not a good argument. it turns international logic upside down, it risks reprisals against europe and it will not help the very difficult relations we have with the usa today. however, to change the logic and tax the turnover instead of the profits is a way of hindering the emergence of new companies. this has nothing to do with digital or non-digital. moreover, trying to identify specifically ‘digital’ companies at a time when everything is digitalised – when the car industry is producing computerised vehicles, for example – is trying to draw an artificial line that will hinder development in europe. but also, and this is serious, if we change the logic of international taxation to require that companies pay tax where they have their sales and turnover, this will damage the export-orientated economy and it will damage all european companies exporting to other parts of the world. it will, in the end, lead increasingly to taxation – digital or not – of european companies in china, in india and in the usa, rather than helping european taxpayers.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by saying that i very much agree with what the previous speakers have said in this house. it is very much about eu policy in general. i find that we talk about numbers a lot more than we do about people. we have, in a way, dehumanized the entire immigration debate. these are people who come to us for various reasons seeking protection, but we speak of them as if they were numbers in a statistic. that's the big problem for all of us, i would argue. we are in the situation we are in today because not all countries have taken a solidarity responsibility for those who have come to us. some countries have refused to take in migrants altogether. other countries, like my own sweden, have taken in an enormous number. we have to do this together, and then we can also have a humane, humane migration policy where we don't see people as numbers, which i feel is the big problem. if we are to proceed from what has happened, or from the subject we are discussing today, namely the border in bosnia and herzegovina, then i think it is good, as the commissioner said, that we must investigate thoroughly what has happened. it is obvious that our eu countries must comply with the rules we have, and that means that if a person enters croatia or any other country, that person has the right to seek asylum there. that person cannot just be sent back to another country. regardless of whether you have a bilateral readmission agreement with that country, that person has the right to seek asylum. that person shall not be mistreated, shall not be humiliated, shall not be robbed, but that person shall be allowed to seek refuge in the country to which he has come. the union shall be founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. that's what we're all gonna do.
mr president, bosnia and herzegovina has until now been mainly an emigration country, with young people leaving. now the situation has changed: we have a lot of people, 23 000 this year, coming through the country, seeing it as a transit country, wanting to go to the eu but then getting stuck at the border. the facilities and the possibilities of the country to deal with this situation are very limited. the country has only two asylum centres and has been improvising by using abandoned factories, but i’m sorry to say there are migrants who are sleeping outside in temperatures of below zero, so the conditions are very difficult and the days are getting colder. the country has neither the financial nor the administrative resources to deal with this situation and we have an obligation to help. so far the citizens have been helping. the country has done a decent job in handling this situation, given that they had never been in this situation previously. the border situation is critical. there has been violence at the croatian border. i’ve received reports from the ground and i’ve received reports from human rights watch saying they have seen this, that the police are using force and violence against migrants, pushing them back to bosnia. this inhuman behaviour should be stopped and investigated, as the commissioner said. i am very grateful for the help the commission has offered. i think it should be increased and we, as partners of bosnia, need to provide administrative support to give them any hope of coping with this situation. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i totally disagree with you because giving the country monetary and administrative help to cope with the situation doesn’t mean anything to migrants, they don’t know about it. so this will be neither good nor bad for them: they will not come because of it, they will not refrain from coming because of it, it will just help the countries to deal with the situation in a decent human away, and it is our obligation to do that.
author. – mr president, the egyptian women’s rights activist amal fathy has been sentenced to two years in prison for something thousands of women have done during the #metoo movement. she posted a video on her facebook page, where she shared her experience of sexual harassment and she criticised the egyptian government for not acting to protect women. amal is not the only person in egypt who has been jailed for the peaceful exercise of freedom of expression. the egyptian government must release immediately all human rights defenders, peaceful activists, lawyers, bloggers and journalists; must drop all the baseless criminal investigations of ngos; and must stop applying the death penalty against individuals, including two children under the age of 18. it’s shameful.
author. – mr president, sadly enough, we have to remind the authorities and the government of tanzania that lgbti rights and women’s rights are human rights. the tanzanian government has an obligation to protect the rights and dignity of all its citizens. i demand that tanzania cancel its laws criminalising homosexuality and stop the arrest and violence against lgbti people, and health and human rights activists. i demand that the tanzanian government immediately cancel the law banning pregnant girls from attending school, and also girls who have given birth have to be able to return to school. the right to education is a human right and needs to be respected all over the world.
