(fi) mr president, my colleague, mr joke swiebel, has chosen a demanding method of working for his report. he takes aim at the countries mentioned directly, blaming them for their lack of human rights. the method gives concrete evidence of the human rights situation in europe, but places a great responsibility on its user to ensure that the picture given is correct. unfortunately, this has not been entirely successful. it is clear from paragraph 27 that there is no functioning civil service system in finland. it calls on finland and greece to unconditionally recognise the right to conscientious objection to military service without reference to any religious grounds. however, the right to civil service has existed in finland since 1931. under the law now in force, virtually every conscript can choose to serve in the civilian service. some 2 500 people, or 7% of the age group, exercise this right each year. about 80 percent serve in the military, and a little over 10 percent are exempt. the concern expressed in the report is apparently that the length of civilian service in finland is twice as long as the shortest service. care is also taken of the many twenty total rejects in prison who do not want to fulfill their civic duty in any way. the longer service period for civil servants in finland is justified by the fact that their duty is eight hours a day within the normal working week when military service is 24 hours a day. i think it is still up to the finnish parliament to weigh up the matter. the fact that the vast majority of finnish young men join the army is not due to a lack of alternative civilian service. the importance of conscription for the country's independence is still well remembered in finland. after all, during world war ii, helsinki was the only capital of a belligerent country, along with london and moscow, that was not occupied.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking all the rapporteurs for the railway package on behalf of my group. they've done a really good job. but the railroad was not started until too late. now, among other things, the promotion of competition in both freight and passenger transport, the increase of interoperability and the improvement of safety are huge challenges that require really fast action. the railways have lost much of their competitiveness. transport has shifted to busy roads and airplanes because the railways have not been able to improve their services fast enough. this railway package will help to make european railways more competitive, and improving competitiveness will enable businesses and citizens to use a more environmentally friendly form of transport. at the same time, congestion can be reduced and short flights replaced by rail transport, and a better balance between different modes of transport can be achieved. the development of railways also opens up the possibility of increasing the use of intermodal transport, while improving the interoperability of ports and railways. i have been following the preparation of mr savary's report as a shadow rapporteur. mr. savary has done a good job, too. when properly implemented, the agency shall promote the development of railways, monitor and act as a catalyst for new innovations and good practice. however, our group believes that the same principle should be followed in the formation of the agency's management board as in the maritime safety agency. we have tabled an amendment to this, which we hope will be supported.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr markov, for the preparation of this report. he has done a thorough job and listened to us, too, who disagree with him. road safety is a big deal. the social status and the value of drivers must also be improved. the commission proposal was poorly prepared. the committee considered that the proposal could be improved, but the outcome is still not acceptable to our group. the proposal will increase inflexibility and lead to practices that are difficult to control and will add costs to the sector. in addition, natural breaks associated with work cannot be taken advantage of. the new regulation does not improve road safety either. our group proposes that we reject the commission's proposal and ask the commission to undertake a thorough study of the need to change the current rest periods, taking into account digital tachographs. we have also made important suggestions for improvement in the event of rejection of the proposal. the basic idea is that the rest periods provided for in the current regulation are sufficient, provided that they are effectively observed and controlled. more effective controls will produce better results than mere paper-based enforcement.
(fi) mr president, thank you to greece for a very good presentation and for bringing up some very good points. recently, though with good reason, the focus has been on enlargement and preparation at eu level. greece has presented these good things, which it intends to pursue in the next six months. but unfortunately, we cannot make the whole world a better place, even if we wanted to. we should also respond to the call that we heard in lisbon for a more competitive europe. it's the opposite: america has run farther and farther away. i don't think we have a visual on him. if it is, the americans will outflank us in who knows how many rounds, to borrow a sporting term. in view of the above, i ask greece what it really intends to do during its presidency to get its own economy back on track in order to achieve the lisbon objectives. does it intend to implement the economic reforms requested by the commission, which mr prodik mentioned earlier, and what is the timetable for this? if greece, italy, portugal, spain and germany stick to their commitments, we can indeed talk about the lisbon strategy and about improving our competitiveness, but if this does not happen, we can use the lisbon declaration as toilet paper and say goodbye to european competitiveness.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, clearing is an essential part of all transactions in the securities markets. the commission communication on clearing and settlement in the european union analyses the reasons for the inefficiency of crossborder clearing and settlement. the inefficiency is largely due to technical requirements and market practices, as well as fragmentation due to national differences and legal barriers. it is very important that the authorities responsible for supervision follow a common approach and harmonised rules. the first step should be to remove technical barriers and move towards interoperability of systems. the preparation of single market directives understandably often starts with the situation of large member states, which sometimes seems to lead to the application of the 'one size fits all' principle. the solution chosen in the preparation of eu securities legislation does not necessarily reflect the european single financial market, but rather the application of the national solution on a european scale. this principle is very poorly suited to the stock market, which will for a long time be characterized by national characteristics. i believe that this is also partly the case in the report by mr generoso andria which we are discussing today. paragraphs 11 and 12 of the report set out the most desirable way of organising securities clearing and the relationship between the csds and the depositaries. in summary, the message of those paragraphs is that clearing activities should define the core activities that csds and clearing houses should carry out for profit and under the control of users, while separating the providers of services. i am sorry to say that i cannot agree with the proposal for a solution put forward by our colleague on these two points. the clearing and custody of securities is much more diverse between member states than the securities exchange. for example, in germany, physical securities are still stored in vaults, whereas in finland, securities have been converted entirely into electronic records, into securities. the german shareholder's position differs substantially from that of the finnish shareholder in company transactions, for example, because of the national company law. the fundamental difference between the structure of the continental and nordic csds is that in the nordic csd, the information on the investor is entered directly into the csd system and, except in denmark, also directly into the issuer's shareholder register. in continental european schemes, custody management is recorded and the investor has no direct contact with the issuer. the commission has also been aware of these differences and is approaching the investigation with caution and from a functional point of view, which is very good. if a directive is adopted on this subject, the commission's approach, which takes account of these market differences, should be maintained. for example, in my home country of finland, finnish issuers have valued value-added services based on the shareholder register in their day-to-day operations; for example, the large company nokia considers them to be very important. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i have prepared two amendments with my colleague astrid lulling, which aim to maintain the efficiency of the national markets and to allow all structural systems and alternatives to exist. there is an english proverb that says: "if it ain't broken, don't fix it". the rapporteur, mr andria, is trying to remedy a situation which is working. in this connection, i would stress that these two amendments should be adopted and i hope that my group will support them.
mr president, i would like to thank you. on behalf of myself and my colleagues, i would like to thank perry for being a good candidate in this election. roy perry is, as you have noticed, one of the greatest champions of good government. i would also like to put it on the record and, above all, to say to those present that in our future ombudsman, mr diamandouros, we have a worthy successor to mr jacob söderman. diamandouros is certainly a person who can follow in söderman's footsteps, and i think i can say on behalf of the members that we will look forward to a good cooperation with him. we should also be grateful that we had a good selection of professional candidates. i believe that the fact that we have elected a new ombudsman during the current term of office has also made our colleagues in parliament even more familiar with the work of the ombudsman and that we are in agreement on what needs to be done. finally, a little taste of the joy cup: more than half an hour ago, the finnish news agency sent a text message about the results of the elections. i ask our worthy vice-president and all the others to ensure that candidates and others do not learn of important news like this in the corridors or through text messages from news agencies, but that we can save such news as far as possible for the solemn sitting that we are holding here in the house.
(fi) mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner patten, in the early 1990s i had the pleasure of participating in the cooperation between a small group of about 25 people, chaired by the current french president, jacques chirac, the democratic forces in russia and the bourgeois parties in europe. we adopted the slogan of this cooperation as 'there is no great russia without europe, and no great europe without russia'. this is even more true today, as the european union is expanding eastwards and russia is becoming the climate for the union in which we have the greatest potential for economic cooperation, but also for overcoming the numerous, even innumerable obstacles which, despite the disappearance of the security threat, still pose a regional threat, such as organised crime, trafficking in human beings and drug trafficking. the northern dimension naturally means cooperation between all the countries in the region, the german, polish and baltic states, finland, sweden and the more distant countries, in areas such as environmental threats, nuclear safety, infrastructure and the prevention of infectious diseases, but our main problem is to integrate russia into this work. despite the length of the commissioner patten's respected list of achievements, it would be easy to criticise the commission and the council for lack of initiative in the context of the northern dimension, but the fact is that the problems are not primarily our own, but the attitude of russia. for the union, however, as we heard, the concept of the northern dimension has been a good tool for defining a strategy. on the ground, president putin has not yet succeeded in his goal of making russia a state of law, a 'dictatorship of law' as he put it, but corruption, crime and the totally unpredictable behaviour of the administration are still hindering the development of cooperation at the level of citizens, business and the union perhaps more than russia's scarce economic cooperation resources combined. but that is why, and precisely because of that, the next action programme for the northern dimension for 2004-06 will require a strong increase in political activity in that direction in order to convince the russians that our cooperation is mutually beneficial, but certainly more important to them than to us. the commission will be enlarged by several new members in 2004. i still think it is worth considering that one of them focuses on developing cooperation with our neighbouring regions, russia, ukraine, belarus and the mediterranean. this would be a practical action which, commissioner patten, would not compete with the broad foreign policy lines drawn by other people in the commission or in the council. we in parliament too, as the commissioner said, can and must be activated in a new way when the focus turns from enlargement to the immediate neighbours. the existing delegations from these countries are becoming more important and their activity should be increased. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, how many of us have been acquainted with the conditions in the countryside and the border regions of north-western russia or ukraine? our paths have led us mainly to the big cities and to the governmental authorities. the questions of africa and asia are important, and we in the north understand that, but for the europe of our children the most important direction is russia, with its great opportunities, which is close to us. my experience is of course based on the close cooperation between finland and russia, but i think that the free ngos, to which parliament's motion for a resolution also refers, are already doing at least as good a job in finland of making up for the lack of social security in russia, for example, as the authorities and the state are doing with their own work. our job is to encourage them and help them. i thank the commission for the report and also for the forward-looking ideas. i believe that a lot of groundwork has already been laid since 1999 in order to get russia to get even more actively involved. the idea of examining or opening up the budget in the joint motion for a resolution of parliament, which i shall not be borrowing from, is to be supported precisely because we are all moving with a long-term idea and programme. the size and growth of the budget will then depend more on our partners in russia and other neighbouring countries than on us. i hope, mr president, that there was no symbolism in the fact that the representative of the council, the greek minister, left the chamber when we began the debate on the northern dimension. i really hope that greece and italy, whose programmes make no mention of the northern dimension, will also take account of the northern dimension. we in the north also understand the importance of the barcelona process and mediterranean cooperation.
(fi) mr president, i would like to thank commissioner patten for the fact that parliament is already at this stage of the new northern dimension action programme having the opportunity to be involved in this work. the aim must be to ensure that the commission is more committed to responding to the specific issues facing the northern regions of the eu. i believe that greece, as the presidency, will also take up this challenge and i hope that it will have the opportunity, as the presidency, to convince parliament of this in the spring, because it will not succeed now. however, i have already heard this assurance personally. the eu's future northern dimension action programme must be broad-based, allowing for political and economic dialogue and action in all sectors of society. as commissioner patten has already said, a great deal of cooperation has already been established in the field of energy cooperation. in addition, progress has been made in environmental cooperation projects. there is certainly a need to further strengthen cooperation in this area. the northern dimension is a region with many challenges, not least those related to nuclear power and nuclear waste. in addition, the gulf of finland is particularly vulnerable and for this reason, for example, the st. petersburg waste water treatment plant projects must be continued. however, we are getting a new partnership programme in the social and health sectors for the northern dimension and this should have a significant place in the new northern dimension action programme. health and social issues often go hand in hand. poor social conditions are fuelling poor health and also diseases that cross borders, so strong cooperation is needed in this area. in the context of the northern dimension action programme, further develop border crossing points and involve russia in facilitating border crossings at existing border crossing points. but i would like to draw the commissioner's attention in particular to the point he has already raised here, namely how we can make crossborder cooperation work better. the commission has already started work on developing cooperation under phare, tacis and interreg. but we need administrative reforms, a single common programme to implement actions in this area, and less bureaucracy and more action. i believe that these matters will be taken into account in the future action programme.
(fi) mr president, the northern dimension is the northern counterpart to eu-mediterranean cooperation. although we speak of the north, we also mean the eastern external dimension of the eu. there are two seas in the north that need to be protected from natural disasters. the baltic sea, which will soon be almost an inland sea of the eu, is the most polluted sea in the world. it's frozen today, which illustrates the difficulty of the natural conditions. the consequences of an oil disaster like the prestige would be devastating. the barents sea is threatened by nuclear waste and the exploitation of the seabed. the construction of a gas pipeline from the barents sea to germany also requires investment from the member states to combat the environmental damage caused by gas production. our group welcomes the resolution agreed by the political groups here. it sets out the main elements to be taken into account by the commission in preparing the 2004-06 action programme. unfortunately, the presidencies have not included the development of the northern dimension in the council's action programme this year. the mediterranean countries greece and italy are neglecting the presidency's duty to represent the interests of the eu as a whole. strategically, energy cooperation is important. the eu is energy dependent on gas from the east. the eu's entire energy needs are to be met by lng in the coming decades. investments in the energy sector will improve the security of gas supply and share responsibility for the sustainable use of energy resources. western investment in environmental protection, nuclear safety and transport infrastructure is also an important area of cooperation. in order to solve russia's environmental problems, some pilot projects have been implemented. they are positive steps in the right direction in a situation where we are called upon to redress the irresponsibility of russian capitalism towards nature and people. the fight against poverty in the eu's neighbouring regions is also part of the northern dimension. civil society has been an autonomous body and must be involved in eu projects. the ngos are a weapon in the fight against bureaucracy, both on the eu side and on the russian side. the car of the northern dimension is driven today with too small a gear, the car has no automatic gear, and therefore greece and italy must now switch to a larger gear. i agree with the criticism made by mr suominen: the representative of the greek presidency should have been present when we are talking about the northern dimension. the presidency's responsibilities extend to the mediterranean and other seas in the eu.
(fi) mr president, mr patten, i would like to extend a very warm welcome to you in this parliament to discuss with us the northern dimension. the idea of this debate, to which mr wallis has already referred, has arisen from the relations within the delegation corresponding to switzerland, iceland and norway. we found that the european parliament has not really had such a debate, which would concretely seek to ensure its involvement in the northern dimension of the eu. in this context, i would like to commend denmark, which has done an excellent job of inviting parliament to attend ministerial meetings in luxembourg and greenland. we now hope that this will consolidate parliament's involvement in the northern dimension. commissioner, you mentioned some successful projects and i would like to support you in that when you mentioned the funding model for this environmental programme. it seems that now, at last, a way has been found whereby the eu, the various donor countries and the international financial institutions can all play their part in solving the massive environmental and nuclear safety problems. when we negotiated the joint resolution between the political groups - and this was very convenient - we noted with satisfaction that last week at the eurarctic council in kirkenes, barents, there seems to have been some agreement that russia should sign this mnepr agreement you mentioned, and that is the condition for nuclear security cooperation to really begin. i believe that we must now really start this work without delay and we must ensure that russia actually goes through with the ratification of this treaty. the arctic cooperation is a very important part of the northern dimension and we have been able to address the concerns of the indigenous peoples of the north, for example, about their traditional livelihoods. when the ice melts in the north, it causes all kinds of disasters. this is why parliament has invited representatives of indigenous peoples to discuss these and other issues of the northern dimension and arctic cooperation this spring. in conclusion, i would just like to say that it is a very big challenge to bridge the wealth gap between russia and the european union. this is certainly a key challenge and we can contribute to it by cooperating in the social and health fields within the framework of the programme.
(fi) mr president, the concept of the northern dimension must be understood in a broad sense. it covers both the union's external relations and its internal policies. in external relations, it covers the baltic and barents sea regions and the whole arctic region. as the european union expands, the importance of crossborder cooperation will increase, as our common border with russia grows and as we gain new neighbours. crossborder cooperation is primarily a bilateral activity, between the eu and its member states on the one hand and russia and our other neighbours on the other. on the other hand, we also have two useful multilateral fora, the council of the baltic sea states and the barents euro-arctic council. both bilateral and multilateral activities are limited by a lack of funds. in bilateral crossborder cooperation, eu funding is limited to interreg projects and a small number of tacis projects. the barents and baltic sea cooperation is not funded by the union at all. our joint resolution again proposes the creation of a specific budget line for the northern dimension. in practice, this could mean a substantial increase in eu funding for the baltic sea council and barents council area, channelled at least partly through these councils. this time we will be dealing with the northern dimension on the basis of a statement by the commissioner responsible for external relations. the principles of the northern dimension must also be borne in mind when we consider the regional and agricultural policies of the enlarged union and other areas of internal policies which have a particular impact on the development of the northern regions. the northern dimension will also become more important for internal policies with the accession of the baltic states and poland to the union.
(fi) mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the southern parts of russia, the caucasus and the caspian sea are in the grip of long-term conflicts. the united states is building - has already built - a network of military bases along russia's southern border, it is building with azerbaijan and georgia an oil pipeline through russia to turkey, an oil pipeline through chechnya is a war-torn country. ladies and gentlemen, and especially the commissioner, russia is now turning to northern transport links and natural resources. within a short time, it is building a second oil port on the bottom of the gulf of finland. a huge gas pipeline project from the arctic to central europe via the baltic sea is underway. at the same time, oil is already being transported from the ob delta region to murmansk and from there to the world market. in other words, russia has made a strategic change which is beginning to be reflected in our actions, but these are russia's own decisions. the question now is what the role of the european union is. russia is becoming for us - as mr suominen said - an increasingly important partner country, and - as mr seppänen said - energy is the key issue here. why would you do that? it is the most obvious example of our dependence on russia. this good idea and model of the northern dimension, which is plagued by confusion and disregard, now needs a central focus and that should be energy. if it were to be made a priority in the next action programme, we could also act in other areas: environment, culture, education, health, transport and the information society. this would give the whole idea a boost, not least because the accession of poland and the baltic states to the eu will also create additional pressure to improve the structure of this northern dimension. as mr hautala said, a good example of this is the financing model for the environment programme. so, there's money, but it's about action. i thank denmark for its action and now i weigh greece in the same scale as denmark has been weighed and thanked.
(fi) mr president, those who think that the northern dimension has been buried are wrong. the project is currently undergoing the largest order ever. with enlargement to the east we will have four new member states on the shores of the baltic sea and the union's border with russia will be further extended. energy security in the baltic states is a challenge for the future. we need to replace the burning stone and ignalina with something else. we cannot simply rely on russian gas. the baltic ring must be included in the programme. the programme should also see clear links to the eu's relations with norway, iceland, greenland, the northern parts of the united states and canada. the aim is to make the northern dimension grow alongside the meda programme among other good eu programmes. the northern dimension, like the meda programme, is a matter for the whole eu. the project has been rightly criticised for its lack of concrete. i hope that my report, which was adopted by the european parliament in may 1999 and which was specifically concerned with concrete proposals, will be taken as the cornerstone of the northern dimension. the problem of the northern dimension has been the pooling of funding from the different eu programmes. the decentralisation of its management across several commission directorates-general complicates the operation. this project is like a splash cage. the commission should organise internally so that, as with the meda programme, the development of the northern dimension is the responsibility of one senior official in the directorate-general. i also support a separate budget line for the northern dimension, as i have proposed in the past.
(fi) mr president, the motion for a resolution on the northern dimension rightly highlights the issues that are most important at this very moment. however, the northern dimension should be seen as a dynamic process. i would like to highlight two factors which influence the dynamics: enlargement and the environment. with enlargement, our understanding of the 'north' will have to change so that by the end of the decade we mean more of the arctic north and less of the 'north', whose meaning varies according to the speaker. the enlargement will also significantly change the eu's role in the baltic sea: from next year onwards, the baltic sea will be an inland sea of the eu. it must be reflected in eu policy in general, with its concerns and its opportunities. the baltic sea must become more important in all eu policies, while its importance in the northern dimension of the eu is decreasing. russia will of course continue to be an important part of the contents of the northern dimension, but in the arctic, the west and the east are closer together: the northern dimension makes it possible to strengthen links also with the west. the eu should decide to join the arctic council, which now includes not only the us and canada but also iceland, denmark, norway, sweden, finland and russia. it would be strange if the eu were to remain outside the work of the council, which was established in 1996, especially since so many of the eu's own projects could generate important synergies with the arctic council's projects. at the same time, it would strengthen the euro-atlantic consensus on the environment, which has not been the best in recent years. this could provide a new international basis for the eu's climate change policy, on which to base practical action. the vulnerable arctic regions will be the first to suffer from climate change, which will eventually affect the whole of the eu, as far as the mediterranean. it is clear that, for example, the melting of glaciers poses probable threats which, if they were to occur, would practically revolutionize the whole of european culture and economy.
council the issues raised by the honourable members have been raised many times in the political dialogue with russia. it is therefore clear that the situation in the chechen republic of the russian federation remains of the utmost concern to the eu. the latest progress report by the secretary general of the council of europe makes it very clear that, unfortunately, there are still serious shortcomings in chechnya as regards human rights and the rule of law. given the human rights situation in chechnya, it is particularly regrettable that we have allowed the mandate of the osce assistance group to expire. the osce has done useful work since its mandate began in 1995, and the eu has called on the russian government to make every effort to ensure the continuation of a broad-based assistance group. on the contrary, it is quite encouraging that experts from the council of europe are continuously present in the office of the special representative of the president of the russian federation for the protection of human rights and political rights and freedoms in chechnya. this demonstrates that there are russian authorities involved in resolving issues raised by the eu and other actors. the european court of human rights has ruled that moscow has made sufficient commitments to allow the extradition of persons of chechen origin who are being treated as terrorists to russia. among other guarantees, it was clarified that the accused will not face the death penalty, will enjoy protection of their health and safety and will have unhindered access to appropriate medical care and legal assistance. as regards the situation of persons moving from chechnya to ingushetia, the eu has received further assurances from the russian authorities that they will not be forced to return against their will. at the same time, concerns continue to be expressed about the fate of those returning to chechnya. the eu insists that appropriate resettlement and living conditions for these people must be provided in advance. as regards the prevention of abuses by the security forces, recent comments by russian ministers on the subject indicate a desire to rein in the identified cases of abuse. we want to hope that the recent replacement of the head of russian military operations in chechnya has sent a clear message to the military establishment that the law must be obeyed by all without exception. in particular, after the attack in grozny on 27 december 2002, it is necessary to understand the general fear and insecurity among the chechen people, as well as the concerns of the russian authorities. in view of the above, as well as the difficult political circumstances, due consideration should be given to the efforts being made in both the russian parliament and government to impose adequate political control over military action in chechnya. finally, the eu is currently considering its position and strategy for the upcoming 59th session of the un commission on human rights. it is not possible to give details until appropriate negotiations have been held with all member states.
(fi) mr president, we are particularly concerned that the situation in chechnya seems to have worsened dramatically even after the oral question was submitted to the council. the osce office in grozny has been closed, and the visit of the european parliament delegation to chechnya was cancelled without any acceptable reason. the reports of the journalist politkovskaya have been startling to read, the impunity of the military's atrocities has worsened and the forced eviction of the refugee camps in ingushetia continues. in these circumstances, it is clear that we cannot leave this monitoring and control to the council of europe, but that the european union must also take a more determined line at the forthcoming session of the un commission on human rights.
(fi) mr president, this is a good idea and it is already included in the jointly adopted motion for a resolution, so there is no need to add it here. that is why we do not support this oral amendment.
commission. - madam president, first of all i would like to thank you on behalf of the commission for inviting us to make a statement on this subject. the commission welcomes the opportunity offered by parliament to reiterate the importance which the community attaches to the conservation and protection of biodiversity in the marine environment. this importance was already highlighted by parliament and the council in the sixth community environment programme, which aims, among other things, to achieve no further loss of biodiversity by 2010. the protection and conservation of wild fauna and flora is also one of the objectives defined in the european commission's communication 'towards a strategy for the protection and conservation of the marine environment'. cetaceans are fragile members of the marine fauna and are threatened by a range of human activities, although it is often not easy to link these activities to the situation of these animals. the commission is aware of the current debate on the possible impact of the use of active low frequency sonar on some cetacean species. it is possible that the emission of these low frequency, intense tones disturbs or alters cetaceans, but this matter needs to be investigated in more detail to determine its severity and extent. the lack of certainty about the reality of these impacts does not in any case justify not taking action to address this issue. the commission considers that, given the potential impact on the marine environment, this type of technology should be used with extreme caution and ideally its potential impact should be assessed beforehand. let me remind you that cetaceans are protected by directive 92/43, the habitats directive, which obliges member states to take the necessary measures to prevent, inter alia, deliberate harassment of these species. for these reasons and following the recent events in the canary islands, the commission asked the national authorities of the member states where such events may have occurred for more details on this subject at the meeting of the habitats committee on 20 november. we will now send a reminder to the member states so that they do not forget our request. the commission shall forward to parliament all information obtained from this initiative. the commission will also ask independent scientific bodies, such as the international council for the exploration of the sea, to analyse current developments and the knowledge available on this subject, in order to obtain more information on the impact that the use of active low frequency sonar may have on the marine environment. only with sound scientific information will we be able to determine what kind of additional measures to take on top of those already in place.
(fi) mr president, i would like to thank the council of presidents for taking up this important matter and i would like to thank the honourable member for his reply. first of all, it is perfectly legitimate to seek to develop a defence system to monitor new technology submarines which are difficult to detect with traditional passive probes. it is clear that submarines invisible to radar are only used by those with hostile intentions. that's why it's important to keep up with the news. the question is what technology we choose and what its ecological cost is. the low-frequency radar system, or lfas, developed by nato countries, may cause whale strays to beaches and fatal internal damage to their internal organs. the high-sibel, low-frequency sound produced by the radar can travel thousands of miles out to sea. whale deaths have occurred in areas where the united states has tested the system. in march 2000, 17 whales washed ashore in the bahamas, and eight of them died while testing a naval radar system at sea. autopsies on dead whales revealed blood spills in the brain and inner ears caused by extremely loud noise. the us navy itself stated in its report on the whale killings in the bahamas that lfas was the most likely cause of the whale killings. in september 2002, the canary islands, in the eu, suffered the worst whale deaths in 20 years, when 15 whales of different species died from internal bleeding. at the same time, nato was conducting military exercises in the area involving 58 warships and six submarines from various member states of the alliance. the lfas produces 1,000 hertz of low frequency and an average of 250 decibels of sound, scraping the seabed from hundreds of miles away. the effects of loud but low-frequency sound on the whale's behaviour and internal organs are varied. noise can cause damage to the earlobes and bleeding in the brain and lungs. even farther away from the source of the sound, the system may confuse the whale's communication system by operating at the same low frequencies that the whales themselves use. noise makes it difficult for whales to navigate, form herds, mate, and feed. the link between the radar and whale deaths is challenging and difficult to prove, as tracking whales and studying changes in their behaviour over the long term is very difficult. the u.s. navy has conducted an environmental impact assessment of the system, but reputable american environmental organizations consider it flawed. last november, a federal judge barred the navy from testing the system in u.s. territorial waters for the time being, citing marine mammal protection laws. however, the navy has permission from the national authority to test the system for 432 hours in other sea areas until august of this year. so far, the navy has agreed to test its equipment away from coastal areas and known breeding or transit areas for marine mammals. however, scientists have found that testing is not safe even in the middle of the pacific ocean, since it is impossible to know the whale's paths completely. by arranging it, up to 75 percent of the world's oceans could be covered. it is not fully understood how the system will work in the mediterranean or baltic sea, where the radar range is coast to coast and animals have no opportunity to move out of the sound zone. the eu has a clear obligation to act and to demand information about the system. there is also a clear economic interest: fishermen operating in the eu have been concerned over the past year about the impact of the radar system on the stocks in their fishing waters. even if fish are less sensitive to the adverse effects of the system than sea turtles, it is clear that the noise of the radar may scare fish away and thus hinder the practice of the profession. mr president, i thank the commission for its statement. on the basis of the above, efforts must be made to obtain a temporary ban on the radar system and to establish rapidly the effects of the system on the marine fauna. it would be best if, on the basis of the commission statement heard today and on the basis of information obtained elsewhere, the environment committee of the european parliament took up the matter and drew up a report.
(fi) mr president, geneva is a moment of truth for us. it is again a test of our ability or inability to stand united in defence of democracy, the rule of law and human rights in a world where the human rights situation has deteriorated significantly and the general political climate is worryingly cooling. the intensification of the crisis in iraq led the member states to introduce the article 19 teu procedure in the un security council. in the long term, it is even more important to intensify actively cooperation on human rights under articles 19 and 20 both in the un and in other international fora. we can't do this if we lose our chance to present ourselves as one. we have no credible front and we, the old europe, are left without the moral authority we need. we cannot then expect our own citizens and ngos to take us seriously either.
(fi) mr president, mr mccartin has produced a good report on the issues to which parliament drew attention when it granted the discharge for 2000. thank you very much for that. the implementation of the eu budget remains unsatisfactory. this is particularly true of the structural funds, whose programmes do not meet the requirements of good governance or the expectations of citizens. the situation has only worsened from 2000 to 2001 and again in 2002. the structural funds were not used in 2000 by eur 6.5 billion, in 2001 by eur 10.5 billion and last year by eur 8.1 billion. the structural funds' outstanding commitments have already risen to eur 66.7 billion, equivalent to two years' budget. this is a very worrying situation. the commission has not been able to improve its administration at all, and the situation is getting out of hand. the eu's structural policy must be radically revised; this programme is threatening to become a real disaster. the reform of the staff regulations, which started in 2000 and is still ongoing, is the most important reform. my group believes that it is important that the staff regulations support the key objectives of administrative reform: improving efficiency, clarifying and increasing personal responsibility and delegating powers to a lower level. reporting on misconduct and maladministration should be the responsibility of every official. on the other hand, everyone must be held accountable for his actions, including unfounded personal accusations. the european union should not be built as a system of organs. the recovery of eu funds unduly paid must be made more natural and faster. the current system is cumbersome and cumbersome, as the mulder report will show. unfortunately, the member state and the commission are often on opposite sides of the negotiating table when they should be on the same side. i think the practice initiated by mr mccartin of annual monitoring of discharge reports is appropriate because it gives long-term support to parliament's control of the commission.
the rapporteur. (fi) mr president, the proposal now before us is the second of three directives aimed at bringing the legislation of the member states into line with the aarhus convention. as with the first directive on access to environmental information, parliament's third reading has now seen the adoption of a compromise text which is very representative of parliament's position and which fully meets and even exceeds the minimum requirement laid down in the aarhus treaty. the council already accepted in its common position many elements of parliament's first reading, just as parliament could accept many elements of the common position. the number of problems thus raised for conciliation was considerably smaller than for the first pillar. on the other hand, these few questions were associated with major problems, due to differences in approach. the commission proposal and the council's common position were based on the so-called 'quick fix' principle, whereas parliament had hoped for a broader, horizontal approach. however, it is clear that parliament's aim is not to defend its position verbatim, but to ensure that there are no grey areas in eu legislation where public participation would be justified but is not possible due to the clumsiness of the legislator. in mediation, we may have found a two-step solution to the problem. on the other hand, the requirements for public participation, based on the aarhus convention, are being incorporated into the new community legislation at an early stage. on the other hand, the existing legislation and the scope of the directive will be reviewed in the light of the experience gained during the first six years of application. the member states undertook to promote practical opportunities for public participation in the mediation. the authorities are encouraged, inter alia, to inform the public about the decisions taken, the reasons and considerations underlying them and the public participation process. the time limits for the different stages of participation in decision-making shall be reasonable to allow the public to prepare and participate effectively in decision-making. in addition, public authorities are encouraged to promote public education on environmental issues, which is undoubtedly also in the public authorities' own interest, as it can improve the quality of participation. a specific question concerned public participation in the verification of permits. in this case, the parties to the mediation sought to strike a balance. on the other hand, the public can participate genuinely when there is a real need to review the authorizations of plants and factories, i.e. when there is a risk of increasing environmental damage. on the other hand, the authority may review licences without the participation of the public when implementing acts and regulations where there is no genuine discretion. i think we have succeeded in this: the public can participate when decisions are actually being made about the environment, but a valuable instrument of participation is not inflated by asking the public to participate in routine decisions. the adoption of the procedure for derogations for defence projects, which was probably a small victory for parliament in its field of application but important in principle, was a victory for parliament in the conciliation. in accordance with the aarhus convention, projects relating to national defence can be excluded from the scope of the directive only on the basis of a case-by-case assessment by the authorities of the member states. after the decision-making process that follows public participation, the public must naturally be able to evaluate the decisions taken. the mediation process resulted in a solution to parliament's satisfaction, which lays down the grounds for granting or refusing access to information to the public and obliges the public authorities to provide the public with practical information on the possibility of resorting, if necessary, to administrative and judicial redress. in particular, in order to ensure a conciliation result, the commission has undertaken in its statement annexed to the directive to submit a proposal for a directive in the first quarter of 2003 on the implementation of the aarhus convention in environmental matters as regards the right of appeal and the right to bring proceedings. it is therefore possible to have confidence that the whole process of ratification of the aarhus convention will proceed in the community without undue delay. i thank the commission and the council, and in particular denmark, which has already ceded the presidency to greece, for their good cooperation in the conciliation and in the informal negotiations that preceded it. i warmly recommend that parliament adopt the result of the conciliation at tomorrow's vote.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, the result of the conciliation is good and worthy of support. the aim of the directive is to bring community legislation into line with the aarhus treaty. it has already been stated here that the directive gives the public a full right to participate in the decision-making process from the outset, in particular in the planning and implementation of programmes, the environmental impact assessment process and pollution prevention and reduction in general. it also allows decision-makers to take the views and concerns of the public into account when making decisions. this naturally and rightly increases the transparency of the decision-making process and helps to increase public interest and awareness of environmental issues. in the light of the main results of the conciliation, the requirements for public participation under the aarhus convention will be incorporated into the relevant community legislation at an early stage in the future. it is also important that the authorities also make the grounds for decisions more widely known. the important thing is that in general, many of the paragraphs require clear language and that the authorities help the public to understand the information available. it is also good that public participation is increased on the most important issues, that the criteria for granting or refusing access to information to the public are strengthened and, once again, that the public authorities are obliged to provide correct, clear and unambiguous information. i think that on this basis we can expect that the public will be more inclined to take action on environmental matters.
the rapporteur. (fi) mr president, i am here to present the final evaluation of the fuel quality directive which we originally adopted in this house in 1998. the european parliament then passed the world's strictest quality standards for transport fuels, after a heated debate and decision-making. in particular, we argued with the oil industry about the need to reduce the sulphur content of gasoline and diesel fuel. we had to make a huge number of arguments to get the reform through, which reduced the sulphur content of diesel and petrol considerably to a lower level than at that time. this choice proved to be very strategic and wise. indeed, reducing the sulphur content of fuels has been found to be perhaps even more important in reducing air pollution. now, this reform that we are finalising today in parliament is that by 2009 only petrol and diesel fuel with no sulphur at all, practically no sulphur at all, may be sold in the european union. this is very important if we are to really clean up the exhaust emissions of cars even further. but the more important reason for this reform is now that car manufacturers are constantly developing cleaner engines with ever lower emissions. these new engines, such as direct injection engines, are in dire need of these unimpaired fuels. we can be satisfied with the outcome. we got the commission and the council to agree that the clean fuels should be on the market by 2009; we brought that timetable forward by two years. i would suggest that this situation is already coming about, if anything, because several member states have realised that this process can be considerably speeded up by granting small tax breaks to cleaner fuels. i can perhaps say that sweden and finland were the countries where this was realised earlier and clean fuels were brought to the market very quickly. this directive will be reviewed in 2005. it will then be up to the commission to decide whether the diesel fuel rule will be implemented in 2009. as rapporteur, i regret only that we have not decided now that the non-violent diesel fuels will be on the market in 2009. i think that this mid-term review in 2005 will only complicate matters, but we were not able to get this through parliament in the second reading either. it is suspected that the production of unadulterated diesel fuel would be associated with increased co2 emissions. however, i think that we could have adopted this reform now, because clean diesel will again compensate for the accelerated entry of new vehicles on the market and thus reduce co2 emissions. the 2005 re-evaluation will also discuss how to bring non-flammable or low-flammable fuels onto the market, including for machine tools. this was perhaps the most difficult part of these mediation negotiations. i would say that i am relatively pleased with the outcome, which is that by 2009 clean fuels will also be used in tractors and other machines. i do not think that farmers will have to pay a very high additional price for this, because costs will generally come down in the end. mr president, i would like to correct one point in these motions for resolutions. they say that parliament adopted one amendment at first reading. this is not true. i would like to put it on the record that parliament adopted 36 amendments at first reading.
(fi) mr president, the gap between the rich, the poor and the poorest countries has widened since the 1990s. the eu's removal of trade barriers for developing countries' products has not significantly improved the situation of third countries, even though the eu is the largest export market for agricultural products from developing countries. the european union's policy towards developing countries has in many places been to promote unilateral production in developing countries. at the same time, the export of heavily subsidised european agricultural products to developing countries is damaging and destroying local production. the dissemination of fair trade products within the union must be promoted alongside the removal of barriers to trade. the commission has supported awareness campaigns for fair trade products, but has found that their high prices only decrease when demand increases. the eu should lower the threshold prices for fair trade products and raise the threshold prices for other developing countries' products. a reduction in the fairtrade threshold price would help to sell products within the eu. this would increase production volumes in developing countries. then there would be a shift in production towards fair trade. at the same time, the development fund should support in particular those farms which are moving under the fair trade label. the development of these farms should be supported by low-interest loans and development aid to provide training for the unemployed, especially women. in order to combat famine, aid is given and collections are made, but it is seldom remembered that we are causing those famines with our import duties. member states should also favour fair trade products in their public procurement, so that increased demand would reduce both cost differences and retail prices. world grain production cannot be increased by expanding the area under cultivation. this is also due to the decline in water resources: increasing the use of irrigation on a large scale is no longer possible. if food production cannot be increased, the distribution patterns and trade relations must be changed. in addition to the unequal distribution of food, political instability is often cited as a cause of famine. the seriousness of the famine in sub-saharan africa today is due precisely to the fact that traditional humanitarian aid is no longer able to prevent a catastrophe because of the political instability in the region. the capacity of governments to deal with the crisis is non-existent. in addition to political and economic means, hunger must be tackled by social means. often, women are the ones who suffer the most from famine. although women produce more than half of the world's food, according to the un food and agriculture organization (fao), they have the worst access to land, credit, education and social rights. parliament's political groups have drawn up a joint motion for a resolution on the commission's opinion. so aid to the victims of hunger and aid to the developing countries have very strong political support behind them. this should also be reflected in the commission's and the council's approach. my worst fear is that once again, in the field of development, action will be less than words. this can't be. there's a whole real world behind the theoretical discourse. they're real people, not a popsicle. they have a pain threshold. we must not forget this.
(fi) mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the member states are not equal in the european parliament. the parliament's visitor service is its calling card for citizens. the visitor service in each member state should have a permanent official who speaks the language of the member state and is able to explain to visitors how parliament works. now parliament has decided that there is no permanent official for the finnish language. finnish is the only language in which the visiting groups are not briefed on the work of the parliament by a permanent official. i think this is discrimination against one member state and one language. it is not in the interests of this house that all languages should not be treated equally and that one language should be handled by temporary assistants or officials rather than by experienced senior officials telling visitors what is going on in parliament. i would like you to be able to make a contribution to this and to ensure that finnish is given equal status with other languages.
(fi) mr president, davos and porto alegre are on different continents, but they addressed global issues in the same way. the resources of business and entrepreneurship, combined with the expertise and legitimacy of the rest of civil society, can offer sustainable solutions to the problems of globalisation. i 'm not . in oecd countries, the average cow receives two euros of government aid every day, while more than two billion people live on less than two euros a day. over a billion people live on less than one euro a day. that is too low a sum to achieve equality in international human and fundamental rights. the right to life cannot be separated from the right to food, water, health care or work, nor can the right to opinion be separated from the fundamental rights of civilization. these rights, in turn, form the basis of the economy: human rights are not a luxury that can only be afforded when the economy grows, but a necessary condition for the conditions for the functioning and stability of enterprises. i 'm not . in russia, for example, the conditions for business cannot be significantly improved without fundamental reforms in the implementation of human rights and the rule of law. now russia has the opportunity to resort to informal and corrupt means of problem solving, using arbitrary, unwritten and ever-changing legislation. i 'm not . it is therefore in the interests of companies themselves to be involved in the realisation of human and fundamental rights. one way is to participate in the un global compact. in this model, presented by secretary-general kofi annan in davos four years ago, the company commits to nine simple core principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards and the environment. i 'm not . the eu has also made progress in its csr framework, but binding legislation is needed alongside voluntary measures. the name and shame procedure should be used to target eu companies that have been involved, directly or indirectly, in violations of human and fundamental rights, whether here or elsewhere. in addition, appropriate sanctions should be developed against companies that commit or participate in human rights abuses and corruption outside the eu. i 'm not . the impact of business in any community, region and state is, after all, great: the day that business really decides to fight corruption and human rights violations, globalization will take on a completely different meaning and content than it does today.
(fi) mr president, the european union is doing everything it can to ensure that belarus respects human rights and carries out democratic reforms. so far, we've used more stick than carrot. in the future, we are wise to seek more positive ways to achieve our goals. after the enlargement of the eu, belarus will become our neighbour on the border, sharing a border with as many as three new member states - latvia, lithuania and poland. we must encourage belarus to maintain its state independence and to move towards european cooperation. the multilateral cooperation provides us with a good forum for cooperation with belarus. the baltic states' position in the council will change as the baltic states and poland move from neighbourhood to membership. in this context, the eu must become more involved in the council's work and devote more resources to projects in its context. as the union enlarges, the importance of crossborder cooperation will increase. we must encourage latvia, lithuania and poland in particular to develop crossborder cooperation with belarus. the union must be prepared to finance projects in this context in the future. a new financing mechanism for crossborder cooperation in the european union will have to be created, either in conjunction with tacis cooperation or as a separate arrangement. the union must devote considerably more resources than it does to the development of our neighbours, and in particular our neighbouring regions beyond our borders. the reduction of disparities in living standards at the external borders of the union must also be effective.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the rapporteur, mr izquierdo collado, for the good and thorough preparation of his report. the rapporteur has made substantial improvements to the commission proposal. the key objectives are to reduce congestion, open up the interconnection points, improve safety and promote sustainable transport. these measures will focus on the core regions of the union. i would like to remind you of the need for transport in remote, remote and geographically difficult areas. good and functioning transport links are vital to these areas of thin traffic flows. these needs are not covered by the commission's white paper. the development of the common transport policy must take account of the special needs of sparsely populated island and mountain areas. good transport links ensure that the entire territory of the union remains within the framework of a functioning common market and that all the union's resources are used up. finally, a final point: the harsh winter has revealed a new safety risk for maritime transport. oil shipments have increased in the baltic sea from a new russian oil port. at the same time, the risk of oil accidents in exceptional winter ice conditions has increased. the eu, like the imo, lacks an agreement on the freezing of oil tankers. this security hole should be fixed quickly.
the rapporteur. (fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation. we are now giving the council a clear message and, hopefully, an impetus to prevent any further slowdown in this area. i should like to speak more about the report by mr van velzen. it is a very important opening and a decisive change in the development of the information society. perhaps it's good to trust his words, which were well-placed. the information society sector is a major employer and a factor that unites us in a completely new way in europe as a whole. its development brings with it considerable economic, political and cultural opportunities. people will now be able to communicate easily across borders and to do business. however, confidence in this sector has collapsed, and we know why, because we have spoken about it so many times: auctions and general uncertainty. while digitalisation and networking offer a range of development opportunities, they have also led to a global divide between people in rich and developing countries. the gender gap, for example among students, is also very deep and is particularly acute in rural areas of the union and in developing countries. the introduction of information technology has also led to a change in the structure of the labour market: many people have lost their jobs and some middle-aged people have had to give up their jobs. in addition, the most disadvantaged groups are at risk of being doubly excluded. they seem to be excluded from the information society - i don't see any easy alternatives here - and that is our biggest challenge. the internet has also become a political tool. it will increase the opportunities for civic engagement and, hopefully, also for influence. i welcome the commission's eeurope 2005 action plan, which will increase investment, create jobs and provide opportunities for all in the information society. i urge the commission to speed up the introduction of the third generation of mobile communications and to remove the technical and administrative barriers in this field. the member states should, in turn, take a flexible approach to spectrum trading and infrastructure creation costs, and do so in a new and rapid way. member states should provide their citizens with sufficient internet time, i.e. the same level of participation in society. the commission should explore the possibilities of developing voice-controlled services. they will soon be available and will make it easier for all of us to use the internet. i would also ask the commission to look into adult education in this area and whether a general qualification would be necessary to move on to the next technical stage. member states should also support the activities and the networking of smes, which have a high potential for employment growth. it may also be necessary to provide funds in the member states to support the integration of socially excluded citizens into the network society. i think it is good that the commission has now set up a working party on information security. the lisbon strategy is now three years old and has faced political as well as economic uncertainty. progress is happening, but it's not happening fast enough or coordinated enough. in the last six years we have added about a million new jobs, but last year only about half a million. what economic expertise is being produced when education and research are neglected to such an extent as they are today and many member states do not follow the agreed rules and do not implement projects? what can you do, commissioner, to ensure that certain member states do not slow down progress in this area? it may well be that a few member states will create their own 'information society europe' unless we involve all the member states in this development. finally, i would say that the digitisation of social information, including information, as mentioned in mr van velzen's report, is creating a completely new stage in the development of the information society: it creates jobs and opportunities, but also problems. the protection of privacy is not the least of these problems, but when the functions of society are online, we are in a situation where we can say that the information society has been born, if we are all involved in it.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, first of all i will look for and find the culprits in the third generation mobile communications problem. the blame lies with the governments of the countries that held the radio spectrum auctions and transferred the investment money from the companies in the sector to themselves. the measures taken by the public authorities to alleviate this investment problem have not been sufficiently effective. there are permits for the placement of equipment side by side and for sharing, but that's it. the investment gap in third generation mobile communications will therefore continue, and the pious hopes of the ambitious goals set in feira, lisbon, barcelona and seville will not be realised. we should set more realistic goals. after the reprimands, i'll say thank you. the report by mr paasilinna draws attention to an important principle of the action plan for the information society for all: the information society must be made available to everyone - that is, to all. it's called democracy. this democracy must be promoted through public investment. in addition to technical tools and fast connections, attention must be paid to the guidance and guidance of users, since equipment is useless unless information society actors know how to use it. i would remind mr van velzen of the statement in the explanatory memorandum to his report that it is essential for the continued operation of certain public bodies that they be allowed to calculate the price of the data, with reasonable compensation for the investment required to produce certain databases. basic information services should be free or low-cost, but for example, the re-use of databases from land registries, museums, universities and research institutes should also take into account historical investments in production costs. our group supports the pse amendment which takes this into account and we hope that mr van velzen can support the maintenance of public services through user charges without having to finance them all with tax money.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, when we talk about the information society, it is worth remembering that a major reform of the communications market act has just been carried out, which created new legislative standards for telecommunications and other network activities. the member states are only in the process of implementing the package. this debate must not distort the picture of telecommunications legislation, which would only create uncertainty in investment in third generation mobile communications. we need to help the struggling third-generation mobile business, not chain it. the gsm mobile business, which has grown strongly in five years, is the cornerstone of our competitiveness and almost the only driver of the lisbon strategy. after the failure of the third generation of mobile funding, we must show a shared responsibility. the mobile phone industry is a major employer and a spearhead of innovation. we have to get this industry back on track, or the japanese will be on the run for good. i took it upon myself to investigate the claim that brain tumors have increased in finland since the 1990's. while the network of support stations has grown exponentially, the number of cancer cases in finland has fallen dramatically. it's hard to sell boring facts to the public. the eu has set strict radiation limits that are lower than the who standards. microwaves radiate more power than base stations. the values of the spanish operators are only up to one-twelfth of the safe limits. it's easier to just say that cell phones are melting our brains. public records must be made available electronically. basic information should be free. the authority may recover its costs, but there is no need to claim any additional compensation. member states are responsible for ensuring that public institutions have adequate resources at their disposal. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteurs.
(fi) mr president, the implementation of internal market legislation at national level is an essential prerequisite for achieving the objectives set in lisbon. the growing implementation gap is fragmenting the eu market and reducing the benefits of the single market. if the telecommunications directives are not implemented in the member states, for example, the development of the sector will become more disjointed. to remain competitive, we must increase our resources for research and training. with bulk products and a poorly trained workforce, we cannot cope with the future. taxation of earnings and indirect costs for employers must be reduced in order to improve employment in europe and in particular to facilitate the employment of smes and start-ups. lower taxation, in turn, will promote european entrepreneurship, one of the pillars of competitiveness. taxation remains a matter for the member states. i therefore encourage member states to reduce their tax burden in line with the lisbon objectives, taking into account positive and fair tax competition. the eu's role in this area is to collect comparable data and disseminate best practice.
(fi) mr president, even when the lisbon strategy was adopted, there was a consensus that the eu cannot be built into the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world without investing adequately in human resources. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december welcomed the fact that the european union is now preparing to launch a new strategy for the european union's competitiveness and employment. the commission communication calls on member states to increase investment in skills and innovation over the next 12 months. this is a good start, but education must be invested in the long term. you don't build a strong foundation of expertise in a year. public expenditure on education has remained almost unchanged in all member states over the past few years. as the population ages and the need for labour increases, we must see education as an investment in the future and not just as a necessary evil. societies that use policies based on equality to harness the full potential of their people achieve great things. the private sector must also play its part in this, in particular by providing its employees with the opportunity to receive training while working. education is the most important factor in the employment of people. the proportion of the population in employment has increased over the last ten years: for example, 12 million jobs have been created since 1996. most jobs have been created in sectors requiring secondary or higher education. education policy is the responsibility of the member states, but we can make it more effective with eu cooperation. the ministers responsible for education have agreed on common objectives for education and training systems: by 2010, halve the number of school leavers and raise the proportion of those aged 25-64 who have completed upper secondary education to 80%. the gender gap in mathematics, engineering and science needs to be addressed.
the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgets. (fi) mr president, mrs redondo jiménez has produced a good and comprehensive report on the monitoring of interactions between forests and the environment, for which i would like to thank her. the commission proposal combines two earlier regulations, one on the protection of forests against air pollution and the other on the fight against forest fires. the committee on budgets has delivered an opinion on this. in its first opinion, it stated that the financial report on the commission proposal complied with the ceiling of heading 3 of the financial perspective and was without prejudice to other actions for the period 2003-06. however, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection increased this financial envelope from eur 52 million to eur 67 million. the committee on budgets noted that the framework was in line with the ceiling of heading 3, with cuts in other policy areas where necessary or recourse to the provisions of the interinstitutional agreement. in practice, the committee on budgets warns that other policy areas will have to make cuts or resort to raising the financial perspective, which is politically very difficult. the opinion of the committee on budgets is based on the new rule 63a of parliament's rules of procedure, which obliges the committee to take a position on the compatibility of the proposed legislation with the financial perspective. this is intended as a guide for the plenary, which is of course free to make its own decisions. this week article 63a applies not only to this report but also to the sandbæk report, among others. it should be noted that if the committee responsible raises the financial envelope under consideration, it must ask the committee on budgets for an opinion again. in any event, the compatibility check is not a decision on the appropriateness and reasonableness of the committee's proposal for a larger financial framework. hopefully, this procedure will become automatic and natural. the plenary must be informed of the compatibility of the financial framework with the financial perspective in order to be able to take a decision. the procedure increases the responsibility of the committees responsible for each legislative proposal under consideration. the same objective is pursued by the activity-based budgeting already implemented. the review of the compatibility of funding under rule 63a is therefore primarily in the interest of the committee responsible.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. (fi) mr president, mr commissioner, as rapporteur for the committee on agriculture and rural development, i would like to thank you, mrs redondo jiménez, for the excellent preparation of this report and for the work you have done. you already took the main content of our opinion into account in your own preparation at the stage of preparation. and for that, i thank you very much. our main concerns in the preparation were twofold: the commission would have wanted to take over the powers of the member states in forestry matters and, secondly, it would have required the member states to collect unrealistic data without it being reasonable or even possible to do so in practice. the unrealistic approach was particularly evident in the measurement of biodiversity, i.e. the calculation of the density of species. in view of the costs involved, it is not appropriate to go beyond what is currently being done internationally in the framework of fao cooperation. it's wise to find out first and then look. the changes we are making will ensure that forestry policy remains in the hands of the national authorities and, in part, the standing committee on forests, which is represented by the member states. future data collected in the eu will be useful for monitoring the evolution of forest ecosystems, but will not be able to provide a basis for eu policy on forestry, forest management and use. i would like to stress here that forests are very different in different parts of the eu and that forests and trees mean very different things in different countries. i am very much in favour of the commission's proposal to make the forestry policy more transparent.
(fi) mr president, it is important that we take care of europe's forests. commitment to biodiversity, climate change, carbon sequestration and soil monitoring requires a wide range of actions. there are tasks in this area which can be tackled jointly at european union level. such tasks include the development of a common database for forest ecological monitoring to provide real-world information on the state of forests. however, in developing measures we must bear in mind that the importance of forests in different parts of europe is very different. the woods are different, too. for this reason, the principle of proximity should be considered as the basis for forestry. we must not develop new institutions either, but the tasks of the eu forest action plan must be carried out within the framework of existing systems, taking advantage of existing monitoring methods. at union level, responsibility should lie with the commission and the european environment agency. the commission should also work closely with the standing committee on forests. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr redondo jiménez, for his work in taking the commission's proposal in this direction, in other words for putting the principle of subsidiarity at the heart of his work. i think it is rather problematic that the rapporteur has included measures to combat forest fires in this regulation. the pse group agrees that the fight against forest fires is an important part of european cooperation and a matter which requires common solidarity. however, there is disagreement about how this should be financed. we heard from the commissioner that the commission has in its proposal taken the view that forest fire prevention should be provided for through the rural development fund. the pse group has tabled amendment no 47, which seeks to ensure that all policy areas are taken into account in the same way in this regulation. the pse group also does not support the increase in the appropriations for the forest focus action plan approved by the environment committee. we must first of all find out what measures fall within the responsibility of the european union and what is wiser and more economic to do within the framework of the existing systems. only after such an examination can we decide what increases in appropriations are needed. at this stage we shall oppose the increase in appropriations mentioned above.
(fi) mr president, mrs mallior's report is in itself largely acceptable. the report is based on health principles, but its general tone can be interpreted as permissive in relation to drugs. i therefore stress that we must take a strong stance against drugs and that the eu must achieve minimum standards in both legislation and penal practice. the credibility of our action against drugs is undermined by the fact that the member states tolerate or even idealize the use of another drug, alcohol. the mallior report is worthy of note in that it equates alcohol problems with drug problems. this is the path we must take. the eu must agree to increase alcohol taxes, which will reduce both consumption and harm, and social and health care costs, which will allow other taxation to be reduced. member states must also be able to maintain import controls which enable a national alcohol policy to be health-friendly.
(fi) mr president, in this debate it is worth recalling that, as intermodal transport hubs, ports play a central role in the transport policy of the union as a whole. improve the efficiency of ports throughout the union by agreeing on the framework conditions for fair competition within and between ports. the commission proposal and the compromise at issue are a cautious start to this work. a few comments on the substance of the committee's report: i think that the validity periods of the licences are too long and that the outcome of the procedure itself is only a small step forward. we could have gone further, given the demands of our committee to combat social dumping. in any case, this directive is a step in the right direction and mr jarzembowski deserves our thanks for his hard work on this difficult issue.
(fi) mr president, i bring greetings from the workers in finnish ports who know how to load and unload ships in a professional and competent manner. they send such greetings that the motion now before us must be rejected. it also makes the cluttered jobs "convenience jobs". they would be carried out by persons sailing on vessels of the comfort flag and lacking the specialised skills required to ensure the safety of all other port workers in the harsh northern snow and ice conditions. we have had a very harsh experience of how the comfort-ticketed ships defy the standards of working conditions, safety and environmental protection. the shipping companies are now trying to extend the exploitation of seafarers' labour from shipping to ports under the false guise of competition. it should not be accepted under the guise of increasing competition. both the employers' and the workers' organizations in the ports agree that this directive will not increase competition. there is only more economic and social dumping.
(fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr ayuso gonzález, for the important work he has done in preparing this important report. we are now taking the first step in the right direction, but the use of biofuels must be promoted much more vigorously in the future. i think that the objectives should be binding, as was requested at the first reading in parliament. parliament's position also took account of the different circumstances in the member states by allowing for temporary derogations. i understand the rapporteur's willingness to make some concessions on the mandatory nature of the objectives in order to make real progress on this important matter. this time, we're not going to get any further. the compromise amendments are satisfactory. there are many arguments in favour of increasing the use of biofuels. first, by promoting the use of biofuels, the need for imported energy is reduced and thus the eu's dependence on external energy production, in particular oil imports. secondly, biofuels are a much better alternative to petroleum products as a renewable energy source. i also think that the employment aspect of biofuels is very important. it offers new opportunities for farms and also where the competitiveness of agriculture in traditional sectors is facing major difficulties.
(fi) mr president, the directive under consideration is part of a package of legislation to promote the use of renewable energy sources in various sectors and is therefore part of the various measures implementing the community's sustainable development strategy adopted by the gothenburg european council in june 2001. the directive is particularly important because it is in the transport sector that the most disastrous developments have been so far. my colleague ayuso gonzález has done a good job. transport accounts for more than 30% of the community's final energy consumption and is continuing to increase. this trend will continue to intensify and therefore increase co2 emissions. the growth is even higher in the candidate countries. according to the commission's white paper, co2 emissions from transport are projected to increase by 50% between 1990 and 2010, with road transport as the main source of emissions, accounting for 84% of transport co2 emissions. the white paper therefore calls for the reduction of the transport sector's oil dependence, which currently stands at 98%, to be reduced on ecological grounds by the use of alternative fuels such as biofuels. promoting the use of biofuels in accordance with sustainable agricultural and forestry practices will create new opportunities for sustainable development in rural areas. this can contribute to the creation of new jobs in rural areas. in addition, it is possible to obtain by-products which, due to their high vegetable protein content, can be used as animal feed. the cultivation of crops for the production of biofuels should be combined with existing cultivation programmes in accordance with the rotation principle. however, in order to ensure sustainable farming practices, clear environmental criteria must be established so that, for example, the use of the same area of cultivation for subsequent food production does not pose any risks. the timetable adopted by the council contains only two targets with dates. we must keep them in mind.
i have had a very bad experience in the european parliament, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, of the direction in which the eu's language policy is going. the presidency's amendments to the draft constitution will not be translated into the eu's official languages during the preparatory stage. the preparatory groups have only interpreted for two or three languages. however, a constitution is being prepared which is superior to the national legislation of the member states. when the preparatory phase is called the preparatory phase for the future, language barriers and the destruction of national linguistic identities seem to be the future of the eu. both budgetary procedures pay attention to languages, translation and interpretation. when mrs gill talks about multilingualism in government, i am not sure she means the equality of all languages. when we talk about remote interpreting, i am not sure that we are talking about remote interpreting of all languages. if not all languages are used equally in the eu, then the languages that are so-called working languages should be considered. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the word 'common' in the title of the directive. the guidelines for the budgetary procedure are so general that there is little to be said about them in general. the unanimous political will of parliament seems to be that the number of unpaid payment appropriations, or rals, should be reduced decisively. many in our group are opposed to the introduction of european subsidies, because that is how parties are super-nationalized. as for the wynne report, which will be discussed next, amendments have been tabled calling for the introduction of euro taxes to finance eu activities. these transnational taxes are not good for many in our group.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr mulder and mrs gill on their very good reports and commissioner schreyer on his very constructive approach to the drafting of the budget. but i would like to thank in particular the president of the commission, mr romano prodi, for the important work he has already done so far in building the european union and bringing the peoples closer together in a joint project which we now call eastern enlargement. the budget now before us is the first to be drawn up for a community of 25 member states. this project is technically very challenging, as the budget will cover 15 member states for the first four months and 25 member states for the rest of the year. the role of the rapporteurs in the preparation of this budget will therefore be particularly important. fortunately, we have action-based budgeting, which is now being put into practice for the first time. it will clarify the budgetary transparency and give a better picture of the work being done within the european union. action-based budgeting gives a direct answer to the question of what the microphone action really costs. enlargement to the east is a comprehensive challenge which must be taken into account in all budgetary planning. it starts with the administration. we must continue to respect the languages of the different member states and to honour the multilingualism of the eu. the biggest challenge, however, is the structural funds. the enlargement to the east is a major reconstruction project, the largest undertaken by western europe since the second world war. its success depends on simplifying and improving the management of the structural funds. only in this way can we achieve the results we are seeking.
(fi) mr president, i am pleased that yesterday the economic affairs committee of the european parliament also supported the finnish government's position that the reform proposed by the council is not suitable as a basis for decision-making. the work of the ecb's main decision-making body needs to be reformed to ensure that effective decision-making is possible after enlargement. however, the model presented by the governing council is too complex and vague and does not increase the ability of the general public to follow the formulation of monetary policy. we all want to make monetary policy more efficient, but the system needs to be more transparent and more understandable. the problem with the ecb's decisionmaking at the moment is not how to vote, but that the council is trying too hard to avoid voting in general. the current article 10.2 of the statute of the ecb states that the governing council of the ecb shall act by a simple majority. however, the votes on the motions for resolutions will not be taken until a consensus has been reached in the debate, which, at least according to the statements made by president duisenberg in parliament, is more than a majority but less than unanimity. in order to allow the ecb to react more quickly to market developments, majority voting should be used. from this point of view too, it is not reasonable to make the voting procedure complex and confidential and to reduce the use of votes even further. moreover, the rotation model proposed by the ecb violates a number of principles that both parliament and the central bank governors themselves have previously considered to be essential. the preparation of the reforms to the ecb's voting procedure should be delegated to the escb. the two points which parliament has put forward, firstly this double majority requirement and secondly the proposal to separate operational decisions on practical monetary policy from longer-term institutional and strategic decisions in decision-making, are welcome and we hope that ecofin will take parliament's opinion into account when it takes its decision.
mr president, the economic recession has proved to be deeper and longer than expected. the current situation clearly demonstrates the importance of the lisbon strategy for growth and competitiveness. the union was to become by 2010 the most competitive region in the world and the engine of growth, as our heads of state and government put it so beautifully in lisbon. but it seems to have been otherwise. in the last three years europe has become a sunset continent, unable to keep its promises, betraying the trust of its citizens and leaving future generations only debts and unpaid pension liabilities. is this really the best we can do? only three countries, denmark, sweden and finland, have done what was agreed in lisbon. ireland, the united kingdom and the netherlands have also made considerable progress. but the three largest economies in the euro area have so far not done enough. if we were in school, germany, italy and france would be in the classroom. i wouldn't use such strong words, but this is a serious matter. or what do you think the leaflet information is saying that at this moment 100 germans are losing their jobs every hour? international economic conditions certainly play a part, but this does not change the fact that the rigidity of our economic structures is a major obstacle to growth. and when attempts are made to eliminate these structural problems, for example by means of the port services directive, the european parliament must be the representative of all the world's troublemakers and selfish anarchists. at the moment, we do not need new objectives or new complicated rules. we have to act now. this action requires a genuine commitment to the stability and growth pact and to structural reforms. it is a completely wrong signal to allow member states to deviate from the objective of fiscal equilibrium in the stability pact. this would in practice lead to an interpretative rulebook and further undermine our credibility and the ultimate objectives of economic policy coordination.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking all the parties for the good cooperation they have shown in reaching a constructive solution. in particular, commissioner bolkestein and the officials under him, and othmar karas, the rapporteur, have done a great job. i would also like to say to my friend othmar that the republic of austria has been said to have overcome the difficult challenges of history with an outstanding ability to build consensus and find solutions that benefit all parties. i believe that othmar has demonstrated by its actions, in relation to this directive, that it possesses these important characteristics of a social actor. ensuring pension security is one of the main policy challenges for eu member states in the coming years. but to meet this challenge, we must send a difficult message to the people of europe. we have to work longer hours, but at the same time the pension from statutory pension schemes is lower than before. it may sound like a kamikaze mission to any politician, but this is still necessary. the status quo is not an option. while the primary responsibility for safeguarding pension systems lies with the member states, we are able to take action at union level to contribute to the sustainable financing of pension systems. this directive on the operation of institutions for occupational retirement provision creates a legislative framework for pan-european operations and is one of the measures needed to defuse the pension bomb. the directive will contribute to the development of supplementary pension schemes which are economically sustainable, provide the necessary capital for enterprises through investment and enable statutory schemes to better respond to the changing needs of individuals. this is especially true on the day we get the tax rulings through. on the one hand, the directive will contribute to the development of european financial markets and benefit workers who will benefit from a more efficient and transparent investment policy for their pensions. it took 15 years to create a common eu legal framework. eu citizens have long been able to benefit from local social and health services in another member state. there has also been eu legislation on personal pension insurance for many years. but the divergent views of the member states on this matter, which we are dealing with today, delayed the creation of this directive for too long, which we hope will be adopted in the plenary tomorrow. the directive now leaves the social partners in the member states free to choose the extent of voluntary supplementary pensions they provide. this is a sensible european compromise, given the differences in pension systems in the member states. we have had some very close negotiations, some very tough ones, but i think we can be satisfied with the outcome. the important thing is that we avoided a possible mediation.
(fi) mr president, history has taught us that it is almost impossible to cooperate with dictators, because they do not care about the suffering of their own people. the same is true of saddam hussein, the leader of iraq. the iraqi people have paid a heavy price for the stubbornness of their leaders. the iraqi leadership has not even wanted to take full advantage of the 'food for oil' programme, but has rather let its citizens suffer from a lack of adequate food and medicine. it is painful for us europeans, who are concerned with respect for international agreements and a policy of cooperation, to see that it was only armed pressure that led saddam hussein to allow the inspectors to operate. before that, the iraqi leadership has defied un resolutions and refused to give up its weapons of mass destruction and weapons programmes. despite progress in the field of inspections, the inspectors' report still leaves a hundred questions unanswered. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european union's participation in the euro-mediterranean partnership. my country finland strongly emphasises the role of the un in resolving the crisis in iraq. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. he also said that finland would support the continued work of the inspectors as long as the work was meaningful and useful. the security council shall consider the time allocation on the basis of the report of the weapons inspectors. it is of the utmost importance that the members of the security council use all their skills to achieve consensus. the aim must of course be to disarm iraq without the use of force. if disarmament requires military action, it must also be approved by the security council. a determined diplomacy must go beyond the ostentatious public appearances of the security council members. the work of the weapons inspectors must be given sufficient time, but this must not mean that saddam hussein can play an endless game with the international community. crowds of people around the world have taken to the streets to show their support for a peaceful resolution to the iraq conflict. the peace process must indeed be allowed a chance, but the prerequisite for a peaceful solution is that the international community must be assured that iraq does not possess dangerous weapons of mass destruction or programmes to develop them. the role of the un and its security council must be paramount in resolving the crisis in iraq. if the un is unable to act now, we risk losing the most important global instrument for securing world peace. the european union must now work together and with all its strength to strengthen the conditions for the un's action.
(fi) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, thank you for your reply. it is very important that we ensure that, for example, the use of a double base for oil transport is used, but this is not sufficient in all situations. when it comes to the northern ice conditions, even more is needed, and this has been particularly evident this year, as the winter has been very cold and thick in the baltic sea and particularly in the gulf of finland, which is very vulnerable. it's about 100 feet below the surface and the conditions are very difficult. i would therefore ask you, mr president-in-office of the council, whether you agree with finland's initiative that the double-hull regulation should be amended so that in future a member state could require appropriate ice-strengthening of ships entering port. so what is sufficient in this situation would be determined by the member state whose port the ship is calling at. should this not also be extended to the surrounding areas, for example in this context when we are talking about the gulf of finland, to vessels sailing to and from russia?
(fi) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, i wholeheartedly support the council's efforts to promote maritime safety in the international maritime organization. it is important to ensure that if such dangerous vessels which do not meet the standards are removed from european territorial waters, they will not then move to the waters of the third world and cause problems there. it is important to move forward through the international community. my real question, however, is whether it would be possible to bring up this particular issue of fuel transport in the baltic sea at the next eu-russia summit. it is important that such matters be given the highest possible profile, and i think this is such an important issue that it should be raised at the highest political level with the russian leadership. is this possible?
(fi) mr president, the question of the borders of the european union is a very interesting one and has also been raised in the discussions of the european council. yesterday the commission adopted a strategy for a good neighbourly policy, which also lists the countries covered by this policy. is there any relevance to this strategic proposal from the commission when we discuss the thessaloniki summit decision to possibly open negotiations with the new candidate countries? i would like to ask you, therefore, what is the relationship between this strategy for the neighbourhood policy and the new countries that may be invited to be candidates? is the neighbourhood policy intended to define those regions and states which can never join the union, i.e. is it really a question of defining the union's borders?
(fi) mr president, i would like to thank all three rapporteurs for their report. it has been said here that this is not a matter of legislation, but i think that these matters must be dealt with at this very stage when we are discussing with the commission what we expect from future legislation. i therefore want to focus on the principles which i believe should be enshrined in eu consumer protection legislation. the most important principle, which has been repeatedly stressed here, is that the level of consumer protection must be as high as possible. it follows that when the commission proposes legislation that is as harmonised as possible within the eu, i accept this premise only if it achieves this highest level of consumer protection. but i do not accept harmonization if one member state has to give up a higher level of consumer protection. i therefore welcome the view expressed in mr whitehead's report that each act must be examined on a case-by-case basis. the same principle must apply to mutual recognition. it must also take account of the fact that no member state, present or future, will have to weaken consumer protection. the advantage of minimum harmonisation from the point of view of consumer protection is that it allows a higher level of legislation to be enacted at national level, if that level cannot be reached in the european union. it is also essential that the consumer protection legislation already in place is fully implemented so that consumers can have real confidence that they can trade and fulfil their consumer role throughout the internal market. the future legislation must also be sufficiently clear and take account of the principles of subsidiarity, necessity and proportionality. i also think it is important not to legislate in too much detail, but to concentrate on achieving the objective of the highest possible level of consumer protection. if we have legislation that is too detailed, then those who do not want to implement these principles will focus on finding loopholes, and this is problematic in terms of judicial procedures.
(fi) mr president, every spring i have been criticising the fact that we are moving further and further away from the lisbon objectives, that is, we are not getting any closer to them. i am not so much criticising the council - and least of all the greek presidency - or the commission. the national states must be the ones to be criticised, they hold the keys to europe's development. i would like to quote a larger mouth, the knights of the european round table, the european round table of industrialists, who express their concern and also a word of warning:
(fi) mr president, the eldr group strongly supports the accession of the candidate countries to the european union and the speedy examination of the accession treaties. however, my group is very sceptical about the prospect of continuing the good cooperation between the council and parliament on budgetary policy. when the copenhagen summit adopted the accession treaties for the new member states, it also established the necessary financial framework. this financial framework was not at all negotiated with the european parliament and therefore cannot bind it. the budgetary allocation of parliament is defined in article 272 of the treaty. now that the council is incorporating the financial framework into the accession treaties, it is becoming a primary eu right. it would bind the budgetary powers of the european parliament beyond the treaty. this is a clear breach of the treaty and of parliament's powers. in future, parliament's powers would be determined by the treaty, which would apply to the old member states, and by the treaties of accession, which would apply to the new member states. this is a situation that must be seen as a mess created by the council. in particular, we doubt whether the interinstitutional agreement on the budget and its revision can even be negotiated. it seems that parliament must only exercise the full powers conferred by the treaty, since the council does not respect interinstitutional cooperation.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too thank the rapporteur for the way in which he has developed his stories, but let him be in his own world. aids, tuberculosis and malaria are diseases linked to poverty, and indeed, as has been said here, five million people a year die from them, particularly in sub-saharan africa. we're in the witch's circle. poverty is a barrier to the development of a functioning health care system, and at the same time, diseases are a barrier to development and the overcoming of poverty. what is needed is rapid action, sufficient resources and a comprehensive cooperation to break the spell. we need a new kind of cooperation. when would we get 300,000 people to invade poor countries to fight disease? instead of "ball shots", you could use drug shots. this project of ours is unprecedented in its ambitions and scale, and rightly so. the lack of cooperation and the lack of clinical research facilities and trained personnel in developing countries have been a barrier to this level of investment. it requires a critical mass, combining expertise and resources. we also need a situation where no one benefits from medicines delivered to poor countries, which are literally vital. aids, tuberculosis, and malaria are manifestations of a social crisis in society when they kill so many people. my question to the commission is: could we develop social crisis management forces in the union, for example, a force of 100,000 people - doctors, nurses, engineers and teachers? would this not be what we in the european union need to help others?
i would also like to thank mr groschi for his determination and the good work he has done in preparing this important report. the directive improves the professional skills of drivers and also road safety, as has been stated here. the uniform provisions on professional qualifications will improve the social status of drivers and also enhance the reputation of the sector. improving basic training can also lower the age limit for drivers in many vehicle categories in the member states, thus increasing the attractiveness of the sector and improving access to labour for transport companies. the council has taken the amendments of the committee very well into account in the common position, so we should proceed without conciliation and move this matter forward quickly. the objective of bringing forward the transposition of the measures by one year should, in my view, be given further consideration. the member states have raised problems with the stricter timetable, as the directive will lead to a lot of reorganisation in education. this is why the member states need time to implement it.
(fi) mr president, madam commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs de sarnezzi, for her deep commitment to the erasmus world programme and for the good cooperation, even though we have not been able to reach a consensus on everything. the most important thing is that the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport was able to deal with the commission's proposal in a timely manner. i also hope that agreement will be reached with the council quickly so that the programme can be launched with full effect from the beginning of next year. there is a clear need to enhance the attractiveness of europe and to strengthen the identity of european higher education. at present, the majority of international exchange students go to the united states. it has a long tradition of welcoming foreign students, for example, in the form of the fulbright scholarships. each year, more than half a million young people from other countries study in the united states. the same applies to the approximately 400,000 students from non-eu countries studying in europe. more than three quarters of them arrive in the united kingdom, france and germany, the three big member states. the opportunities offered by european universities are thus largely underutilized. the same applies to the added value of university networking. the erasmus mundus master programme seeks to address all these shortcomings by establishing a european union master's degree for students from third countries, built on the cooperation of at least three european higher education institutions. in the committee on culture we pay a great deal of attention to the linguistic diversity of europe. perhaps that is why the majority in the committee wanted to add a paragraph to article 4 of the proposal stating that the purpose of the programme is 'to promote language skills, in particular by using the language used in the countries of the two institutions participating in the erasmus mundus master courses'. i fear that such a strict regulation would be contrary to the basic objectives of the programme. erasmus mundus is not a language programme, but its purpose is to increase the attractiveness of european higher education. let us consider, for example, the master's degree in biotechnology, which would be carried out in cooperation with universities in finland, latvia and estonia. the requirement to learn the language of the countries in question will certainly not increase the appeal of the programme in the minds of young people interested in biotechnology. the problem is not limited to the northern part of europe, but also to portugal and greece. i hope that the language requirement, which is so clearly defined, will be removed in the vote in the plenary.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, the commission's proposal for an elearning programme shows that the decisions of the lisbon summit are being implemented, even though the strategy's major objectives of full employment and economic success are being hampered by the uncertainties of the world economy. the elearning programme also benefits from good cooperation between the parliament and the commission, for example. for the second year running, the eu budget has a specific budget line to support e-learning, at the initiative of parliament. this year, eur 18 million has been allocated to this heading b 3-1000. the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport has expressed its concern that the commission's proposal will mean that the annual budget for the programme will be less than that currently allocated to preparatory measures. the committee therefore proposes to increase the overall budget from 36 million to 54 million. the committee on culture is aware that its expenditure in this area must be matched by the very limited budget available under heading 3 of the financial perspective. we also do not want to cut back on the funding of the multiannual programmes which have already been adopted. i would like to point out, however, that the opinion of the committee on budgets also refers to the contradiction between the commission's proposal and the preparatory measures. the committee on culture's proposal to increase the appropriation therefore seems to be supported by the committee on budgets. in addition, the amount in question is so small that it is likely to fall within the margin of error of heading 3. the committee on culture emphasises the importance of the internet as a means of fostering friendship. the committee wants to include both primary and secondary schools. i think that the admission of first-year students is justified for a number of reasons. networking via the internet offers completely new opportunities for small schools in remote areas to provide internationalisation education and to learn foreign languages and cultures. as primary schools cover the whole age group, it is also justified to provide them with opportunities to avoid the second objective of the programme, namely the digital divide. in order to bring everyone into the information society, it is essential that schools have enough teachers with knowledge of information technology. there are still many shortcomings in the use of computers as a teaching tool. in 2002, on average, 90% of primary schools had internet access, but only 39% of teachers used the internet in their teaching. the differences in internet use between countries are still significant, as we have heard here. they are only achieved through the action of the member states themselves. the elearning programme is at best just an activity to promote and exemplify the equal use of information technology.
(fi) mr president, in this debate, members of the european parliament have an exceptional amount of self-criticism. as a former member of the committee on budgetary control, i am guilty of it myself. i have not drawn the right conclusions from the court's reports on the weaknesses of the accounting system. i did not think the commission's accounts could be so poorly organised in a budget of almost eur 100 billion. in retrospect, we members of parliament have received from the court of auditors all the relevant information on the basis of which we should have reacted earlier to the weaknesses of the system. we have not been up to our duties. we are responsible for the weakness of the controls, the commission itself for the weaknesses of the system. the problems are not individual abuses, but they are in the system itself, in the accounting system. the discovery of the problems was made possible by the actions of the former commission's accountant general, marta andreassen. it is only now that mrs andreasen told us that the emperor has no clothes, that the commission's accounting system is thoroughly rotten and that this must be fixed quickly. thanks to him, we are now talking about real problems that we have previously looked the other way. as a reward, mrs. andreasen was relieved of her duties. that's where the injustice is. the commission has made a mistake in defending officials who should have been dismissed on the grounds of complete accounting incompetence. instead, they fired mrs. andreasen. we politicians don't see problems if they're too close or big enough. we did not see the shortcomings in the commission's accounting system at the time, but now that we see them, we must put things right. we must also restore mrs. andreassen's lost reputation. the vote of the social democrats and greens in the european parliament should not only save the social democratic and green members of the commission. as members of the european parliament, we should be ashamed of our role. the report by the committee on budgetary control lists a number of shortcomings which paint a very dark picture both of the commission's accounting system and of us. if we were to be given a discharge for our own actions, i would vote against it.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as a finnish liberal, i support olle schmidt's line. we wonder what makes the drug trade appealing to young people. well, it's when they live in societies where they don't have better prospects and no other opportunities for success. i come from a society where all young people have the opportunity to get an education, to improve their social standing and to get ahead. they have hope. hope is the best thing in the fight against drug trafficking. if we argue that a trade must be legalised if it is profitable, i wonder if we should not also legalise trafficking in women and human beings, which are becoming as big an economic sector in the world, and even more terrible. to those who call us ridiculous when we talk about the success of the nordic drug policy, i would like to say that according to the statistics in finland we have succeeded. there, drug-related crime decreased last year.
(fi) mr president, the aim of the recommendation in this proposal is to break with the current drug policy, which is based on three un conventions. this seriously calls into question the rationale of zero tolerance for drugs. the rapporteur must be commended for having cleverly hidden his real message in technical nuances. the amendment of the un treaty classification of drugs requested in the report is not necessary. the whole reclassification is just a cover name to shadow the liberal drug policy issue. in plain language, this is talking about the legalisation of cannabis use, the partial decriminalisation of the sale of cannabis products and the distribution of heroin under control. i can't accept this. a restrictive drug policy, or zero tolerance, is the only right approach to drugs. this policy has produced good results. the nordic countries have been able to keep the drug problem at a lower level than the rest of europe. the results achieved include a reduction in drug deaths and drug offences, and a stabilisation in the number of drug trials. a sad example of a liberal drug policy is the so-called model country of the netherlands. according to europol statistics, the netherlands currently produces more than 50% of the synthetic drugs in circulation in europe. as mr oostlander said earlier, it is quite clear that drugs and their use increase where they are tolerated. the report draws on the findings of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. however, the weight of these investigations is diminished by the background of the former head of the unit. in january, the person concerned had to resign from his post, as it became clear that, in addition to his actual activities, he was promoting the legalization of drugs. the question of the attitude to drugs is a matter of principle. our politicians must be aware of our responsibilities and act accordingly. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to think carefully about the message you want to send, especially to young people, in tomorrow's vote. (applause) i would like to thank the
(fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although we are said to be living in an information society, information itself is a problem for us, and this commission communication strategy is now seeking solutions to it. this is a good thing, because the union is aiming to be the world's leading knowledge society within seven years. i don't think that's going to work. why can't it work? the reason is that the member states do not implement the jointly agreed decisions of the lisbon strategy. the commission is therefore concerned about the indifference of citizens to the union and the lack of information about it, as less than half of the citizens vote. but has this not happened precisely to those member states which are so indifferent that they do not implement the lisbon process? and that information-based economy is precisely the information-related issue. it must be remembered that information is only the raw material, knowledge is the processing, and civilization is the end result. our goals are good, but the media or the people aren't very interested in them. in fact, the brain that has softened over the decades of soap operas and soap operas is the opposite. could it be that there is an action film about the european union? that would give you an audience that you wouldn't otherwise have. euronews is a good target. the important aspects are also the commitment to everyday life and, of course, the visitor service. for example, the secretary general took away the finnish language office, so there is no finnish language service in the visitors' service.
(fi) mr president, recent events show that the eu member states are not able to agree now or in the future on the organisation of a common defence. the eu member states, which are also members of nato, have also taken a sharply divergent stance on the iraq war, reflecting their general attitude to the emerging new international order. this makes it difficult to carry out a common defence. the neutral member states have not wanted and do not want to develop the union into a military alliance or a military superpower. in these circumstances, it would be wise for the eu to stick to crisis management tasks only and for nato to continue to act as a collective security mechanism for those eu member states that wish to belong to it. within nato, germany, france, belgium and other like-minded countries could enter into close military cooperation with each other and form a defence community that would act as a strong european pillar of nato. this arrangement would strengthen the cooperation which is so important to all of us between europe and north america. the european union would have its own defence identity within nato, but the defence community would work closely with the united states. the other eu member states - both nato and non-aligned - would do their part to ensure that the transatlantic link is maintained and strengthened. the creation of a defence community could lead to a more general internal disintegration of the union, based on the ideas put forward over the years by leading french and german experts and politicians. in this case, the core of the union should be separate institutions, as has been suggested by, among others, the german foreign minister joschka fischer.
(fi) mr president, serious international crises tend to highlight the national differences between the member states of the eu. the union has played a key and successful role in the post-war settlement of the balkans and afghanistan, but we have not been able to act in time and effectively to prevent, for example, the tragedy in the former yugoslavia. the war in iraq has also highlighted differences in member states' histories, geopolitics and political priorities. the dispute is fuelled by the internal political situation in the various member states. it is not necessary to be particularly cynical if the objective of common european security guarantees is still a utopia. however, at the moment it seems that nato is losing its importance and europe should take more responsibility for its own security and defence policy. the report by mr morillon is therefore very timely. perhaps the current world political crisis and the threats it has unleashed will make us make a real effort to strengthen europe's voice and capacity to act. it is not enough to set ambitious goals. we must also be decisive and practical. the role of the commission in the conduct of foreign policy should therefore be strengthened in the preparatory phase. unfortunately, the opposite seems to be the case and intergovernmental relations have been strengthened. again, we're faced with contradictions in words and deeds. the work of the preparatory commission for the border region shows that certain member states are becoming more active in shaping the common defence policy. it is realistic to assume that the union will move at different speeds in this area, as has also been the case with schengen and emu. however, it is important to ensure that closed clubs are not created, to which not everyone has access. it would also be useful to get to know better the foreign and security policy objectives and needs of the different member states. the greek foreign minister papandreou has proposed such a survey. i think it should be done. for example, when we know the differences due to geopolitics, we can also identify opportunities for cooperation.
(fi) mr president, according to the report by general morillon, the european union is being militarized and is also being paid for by the peacekeepers. the report, which has been drawn up alongside the eu constitution, has been able to demand something that is known to be achieved. the constitution includes a specific solidarity article, under which member states undertake, inter alia, to combat the threat of terrorism. the principle of preventive war is thereby introduced into the eu. the eu's member states' frontline forces will be given the opportunity to go even further in military cooperation: when the eu's crisis management function is extended to combat forces, it can be done illegally without a un mandate and without geographical boundaries. the most militarist group of countries may, in the spirit of article 5 of the weu, give each other security guarantees in the form of a declaration or a protocol. it is a good thing that power is retained in military matters in the council, which must be unanimous. it is better than attacking by decision of the commission. i would remind you that there are countries in the eu that do not want a military alliance.
(fi) mr minister, you spoke about these and those things, and in my country they would say that you spoke about the wood and the grass, you did not answer the question i asked at all. i would hope that when you come to parliament, you will read the question and answer what is asked. i asked whether your interpretation of the eu peacekeeping mission in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia was that it had a un mandate. i'd like you to answer a question.
(fi) mr president, i greatly appreciate and fully support the work of dr lies on this report, which sets out guidelines for the treatment of human tissues in the european union, also known as the community of values. it's a broad topic, so i'll just focus on one detail, the processing of stem cells. it is a direct continuation of the work we tried to do in the parliament's ad hoc committee on human genetics last year. we understood the cough: on the business side was the fire zone. investors were on the waiting list. expectations were not so much about new medical breakthroughs as, above all, about possible wealth. genetic engineering is the next economic boom, and it is expected to bring at least as much return on investment as it. in the end, it doesn't really matter what the research actually finds. while waiting for the jump, we had to completely ignore the fact that there is also an alternative to embryonic stem cell cloning, treatment with adult stem cells. however, embryonic stem cells have a greater ability to differentiate into any tissue. recently, however, research has opened up promising possibilities for the use of adult stem cells. the first cells in the human embryo are called totipotent, meaning that they can differentiate into any type of cell. pluripotent stem cells can again differentiate into any cell type, but they can no longer produce a new human. multipotent stem cells are no longer able to produce cells of a specific tissue, such as nerve cells, liver cells or blood cells. these are also found in adults, and they are the ones that are of most interest for therapeutic cloning. recent research suggests that some stem cells that were thought to be multipotent are actually pluripotent. this would mean that human embryos would not need to be made into stem cell lines after all. liese's report rightly acknowledges this situation, and he also acknowledges the ethical problems that arise in the handling of embryos. it is important to note here that medical goodness and ethical wisdom are not necessarily mutually exclusive. we, the christian democrats, say a strong yes to research, while at the same time wanting to protect the integrity of human dignity from its very beginning.
(fi) mr president, this report is a very good example of cross-party cooperation, and i thank the rapporteur, mr nobilia, for that. i myself have also been happy to follow the line of my own group's shadow rapporteur, mr florenz. good work from a man who's admitted to only using a washing machine twice in his life. so a fairly good and balanced report is in the making. in the case of detergents, this may sound a little too solemn, but when you think of the environmental impact, this is a very important everyday thing. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the use of detergents is as environmentally friendly as possible. less attention has been paid to the role of the user of detergents. i believe that consumer behaviour will be the most important factor in the future in the environmental impact of detergents. it is not enough to choose a packaging with an eco-label on the shelf, but it is also necessary to know how to use it correctly. but it's not as easy as it sounds. first, the hardness of the water affects the dosage requirement. the need for detergent can vary greatly between the hardest and softest water areas. but it would of course be very frustrating for the internal market to make several different packages according to the degree of hardness. the amount and dirt of laundry also affect the dosage. now, although the committee's amendment has been improved, the reference to annex 8 is still too early in this respect. average is not enough when the right amount is crucial for the consumer and the environment. another factor that makes dosing more difficult is the increased marketing of sealants. the administration of the concentrate is more difficult if you are used to using larger amounts than normal. however, the use of gaskets would have many environmental and consumer benefits: the number of packages would be reduced and significant transportation costs would be saved. for this reason, the switch to sealants should be encouraged, but only if the consumer understands how to use them properly. although the directive on consumer advice is now half-way through, i believe that the manufacturers of detergents can take voluntary action to increase consumer awareness and thus also reduce the amount of pollution. similarly, national consumer authorities may carry out campaigns to advise users of detergents. i hope this is what happens. they really can't wash their hands of this now.
(fi) mr president, the previous framework programme for energy ended at the end of last year. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one. however, the previous programme was much later, so progress has been made, albeit slightly. the new program will have fewer separate programs, and that's a good thing. in fact, the resources of the previous framework programme were fragmented and it has not been easy to achieve visible results. the administrative costs of many programmes, consultant fees and various seminars, of which there is no shortage in europe, were draining resources from concrete actions. the new programme will increase resources, increase the overall amount of money and replace the five-year programme with a four-year programme, increasing the amount of money available each year. however, the energy sector is so capital-intensive that even increased resources will not solve the eu's energy security, security of supply, energy saving and environmental protection problems. the common objectives set, for example in the field of renewable energy sources, are so ambitious that their achievement is decisively dependent on the member states. we cannot rely on the altener programme alone to fail to achieve our objectives. the creation of a new specialised agency to coordinate energy cooperation is proposed. however, experience has shown that agencies do not always reduce bureaucracy, rather the opposite, and it is always more difficult for parliament to control separate agencies than the commission. the creation of new agencies will not increase the transparency of the administration. i would like to express to the rapporteur the same thanks that were expressed by mr caudron on behalf of our group.
(fi) mr president, it is astonishing that market forces have not been able to improve the energy efficiency of the fuels they use in combined heat and power generation on their own. when the heat generated by electricity production can be used for both heating and cooling, it is an economic resource that should be used in the interests of the generating installations themselves. the directive is not only needed to ensure the functioning of the common energy market. it is also needed to compel member states to channel resources towards the efficient use of fuels in the name of energy efficiency and environmental protection. the eu is very careless about setting common goals. you set a goal, but you don't create the resources or the penalties to achieve it. the example of setting objectives based on aspirations is the promotion of combined heat and power production, which is now under discussion. the objective of increasing co-generation to 18% of electricity production by 2010 or 2012 is a pious hope. the market produces co-production if it is economically viable. the directive does not mean freedom from the invisible hand of the market. small production units are often innovative, exploiting margins that are not of interest to large producers. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. it is justified to demand that access to the grid be guaranteed to small producers, who are entitled to a fair price for the co-generation electricity. i would also like to draw attention to the problems that arise if the various directives are not coordinated. for example, a directive on the system of greenhouse gas emission allowance trading must not be incompatible with this directive. it is a synthetic market directive, whereas this directive on cogeneration is economic and technical. the directive on the emission trading system is not in the interests of european companies, but this directive is.
(fi) mr president, i too would like to begin by thanking mr glantea for the excellent preparation of his report. the proposal for a directive on the promotion of cogeneration of electricity and heat is an important part of the eu's strategy for energy efficiency and energy saving. co-production also contributes to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, as noted here. in the short term, the existing co-production facilities should be developed and, where possible, the establishment of new high-efficiency plants should be promoted. in the longer term, a framework should be established to ensure the central role of high efficiency cogeneration in increasing energy efficiency and savings. the amendments on micro-production, renewable energy sources and district cooling are important for technological progress. the commission's proposal and the opinions of certain committees do not allow for the storage of heat in all sizes, both within 24 hours and throughout the year. the aid should not be limited to cogeneration based on the need for useful heat. for co-generation plants, flexible operation, dictated by the seasons, the days and the random variations, shall be allowed. for waste heat from a cogeneration plant, there is a possibility of a wider use than currently available. it can also be used for cooling, water purification, and air conditioning, among other things. this report is very technical and the word 'high-performance' is often used incorrectly in the finnish version. the correct translation is "high utility". the word 'large' would imply that the directive would only concern large installations. the key is to be willing to support high-performance technologies regardless of size.
(fi) mr president, first of all i would like to thank mrs de palacio for the good preparation. the european union's common space policy is important. the european space agency is an essential part of european integration. most of the members of the european space agency are eu members, and most of the eu members are also members of the european space agency. space technology is a very important area of research and industrial policy. the space industry currently employs over 40 000 people and indirectly employs up to 250 000 people. space research has traditionally been at the forefront of research. many of the inventions made there have been later applied to everyday conditions to serve all citizens. the galileo satellite navigation programme is by far the largest and most significant of the joint european union-esa projects. it is a satellite-based system with ground stations, which is due to be launched in 2008. it allows the receiver to locate its position and determine its time with infinite accuracy anywhere on earth. the american gps and the russian glonas differ in that the european system is state-of-the-art and would not be disrupted in times of crisis. the last time we saw iraq, we saw how big a deal this is. the galileo system would ensure the independence of the eu and esa countries from other systems that they would not be interested in administering. the eu's contribution is limited to the development of the galileo system, which should be completed in 2005. this phase will cost at least eur 1.1 billion, of which the eu has committed to pay half and esa the other half. in addition, the private sector should contribute some eur 200 million. galileo is vital for the development of european research and technology. the eu and esa should be at the forefront of space technology worldwide.
(fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, numerous environmental accidents, such as the recent accident of the prestige oil tanker off the coast of spain, have given impetus to the development of environmental liability legislation in the eu. in my own country, finland, too, citizens are watching with concern the occasional frighteningly bad condition of oil tankers sailing off our coast. human health is inextricably linked to the environment in which we live. environmental protection issues are therefore naturally close to the hearts of our citizens and hence also the priorities of our policies. a third of the petitions received by the european parliament last year, some 1 700, were specifically concerned with environmental problems. the commission proposal for a directive aims to ensure that the polluter pays for the costs of repairing environmental damage in the future. the aim is to develop a uniform framework for the whole of the european union, so that we avoid a situation where a company chooses its location according to the most favourable legislation. in order to prevent distortions of competition in the internal market, it is important that the directive is implemented in the member states in the most uniform manner possible. it is also important to preserve the legal basis for the internal market, namely article 95, after a transitional period of five years. we have discussed the commission's proposal in the committee on legal affairs and we are putting forward a number of necessary amendments. the general aim of our amendment is to clarify the legal interpretation of the directive and to strike the necessary balance between industry and environmental actors. in order to avoid legal uncertainty, we suggested that the nuclear safety sector, which is already regulated by international agreements, should be excluded from the directive. the international conventions on nuclear safety are being renewed and will include corresponding environmental liability provisions. it would be unwise for the eu to undermine the importance of international agreements at a time when they are being renewed and extended to new member states.
(fi) mr president, mr commissioner, i support the rapporteur, mr saccon, 100% in his approach to this report on voluntary agreements, and in particular that these voluntary agreements should be based on the fact that they are complementary to existing legislation. their task should be to find ways of improving legislation. perhaps then, when the results of these voluntary agreements are analysed, they will lead to new legislation that goes beyond the present state of affairs in environmental matters. those who are willing to participate in these voluntary agreements can act as pilots. at the level of companies, this also works in such a way that when there is a willingness to go out and look for better applications, companies can then take advantage of this in their own marketing too, which will hopefully lead to consumers also demanding these better applications more widely. but all in all, care must be taken to ensure that these voluntary agreements actually produce results and do not remain merely wishful thinking. it is therefore necessary to ensure that results can be measured and that there are certain deadlines by which results must be achieved. there are many actors at regional and local level who have been interested in concluding voluntary agreements alongside companies. in this context, it is necessary to ensure that, where regional level is the contractor, the central level is also informed of what is happening, in order to avoid duplication and to ensure the best possible benefits, and also to answer questions about funding. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new type of regulation, the one that is based on the principle of subsidiarity.
(fi) mr president, mr commissioner, the report now before us will simplify and improve substantially the environmental legislation in the community. for this, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr saccon. the feedback to date on environmental agreements has been that a significant proportion of environmental and civil society actors have been suspicious of voluntary agreements, even when the agreement itself has been voluntary but the agreement itself binding. on the other hand, the industry has been hoping to increase voluntary agreements to achieve flexibility and thus hopefully also positive environmental outcomes. this ditch, as far as i can see, is now well bridged. the report takes the view that voluntary agreements can be applied where the impact can be assessed in a uniform manner and the added value to society can be measured by sustainable development indicators. secondly, it must be able to define objectives and set clear timetables for them. in addition, the contract must be representative. in practice, this requirement means that sectors which are poorly organised or otherwise free to move do not fall within the scope of the voluntary agreement. voluntary agreements, like legislative acts, must take account of public participation and guarantee the transparency of the agreement. in addition, the binding nature of the contract, the evaluation of the results and any sanctions must be guaranteed. under the above conditions, there is no risk in using voluntary agreements. these conditions ensure that the agreement produces a better outcome for the environment and society than legislative instruments. i would also like to say that the amendment by mr oomen-ruijten must be supported. the contractual process generally generates a genuine commitment to the objective by the parties. often it is more important than the letter of the law or the contract. in this way, operators do not spend their resources on finding loopholes, but rather on finding ways to achieve the objective effectively.
(fi) mr president, all the signs are that sars is here to stay. in the developed western world, the situation is likely to remain under control, but for the poor developing countries it may become a new great scourge. a disease that directly and through its economic consequences increases poverty, misery and death. the epidemic is already threatening asian countries with already weak economic growth and, through repercussions, the entire world economy. we must also be prepared for the need for a large humanitarian aid. the epidemic has only been going on for eight weeks, but one thing is certain: policymakers are at the center of it. the need to ensure stability and order in the world is crucial for health systems and prevention. only one case of infection has been reported in finland: a person who became ill after returning from a trip to toronto. however, the canadian high commissioner for health has been quick to deny the possibility of infection. the toronto star newspaper, for example, stated: "unless someone has managed to sneak into a hospital to quarantine a sars patient, the claim of canadian infection is utterly foolish". such statements vividly recall the attitude of the leaders of the former eastern bloc countries: "we are not infected with diseases". it's unbelievable that the canadian health authorities are engaged in a childish power struggle over where the disease came from. this attitude is not serving anyone. once cases are detected, the health authority should have more to do than protect the country's industry and tourism. on a general level, it shows how poorly western authorities are mentally prepared for the spread of new dangerous infectious diseases. however, the extraordinary meeting of eu health ministers with recommendations for action was an important first step, but we expect more. the eu needs more competence in the area of communicable diseases. another detail on the sars situation deserves comment: italy was dissatisfied with the decision of the council of ministers on the prevention of sars and decided to temporarily withdraw from the schengen agreement in order to be able to check the health status of migrants itself. whether the italian decision is necessary or an exaggeration of the emergency measure, it shows in any case how flexible the key eu treaties can be in exceptional circumstances, if a member state can justifiably argue that it is not complying with them. the eu has passed the practical test in this respect with high marks.
(fi) mr president, i should like to begin by thanking mrs neena gill for her excellent estimate of the european parliament's revenue and expenditure for 2004. it is difficult to give an estimate because of the parliamentary elections and the enlargement of the eu during the year. in the european parliament elections, half the seats are usually replaced, and perhaps more in the next elections when the old member states lose 56 seats. at the same time, we will have 162 new representatives from the new member states. both of these factors increase parliament's expenditure and at the same time create uncertainty in the estimates. the aim is to keep parliament's share of administrative expenditure below 20%. the target is ambitious, as an additional €46 million is planned for the members' statute. the package is new. therefore, exceeding the ceiling by this amount may be justified, as it would not actually change the old cost allocation between the eu and the member states, since the member states have been responsible for the remuneration until now. the rapporteur is seeking to develop services for members in the core functions, i.e. legislative and budgetary tasks. the focus is right. the rapporteur also calls for better planning of meeting times to avoid duplicate meetings. this would reduce costs, inter alia, by reducing the number of interpreters needed at the same time, which would facilitate interpretation arrangements in particular for the new member states. at the same time, members would have a better chance of participating in the work of all their committees. the appropriateness of the electoral weeks will therefore have to be assessed in more detail in the future. but in this context, the granting of new benefits to members must be treated with caution. for example, there is no scope for expanding transport services, at least not until definitive experience with other new expenditure is gained. the extension of the health insurance scheme to former members does not seem justified and my group does not support it. each member state has taken care of the social security of its former members in the context of their employment. when parliament applies the sickness insurance scheme to current members, it is justified because the current members work outside their own country and it is occupational health care. but former members are not covered by this ground, it would be a new, somewhat hidden privilege. multilingualism will increase in parliament as the number of official languages increases from 11 to 20. this means that the double interpretation is increasing. it should be examined whether major languages such as english, french and german can be subject to specific obligations to translate directly into several languages, so that most members of parliament would be able to listen to the speech through only one interpreter.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his good work and, like the rapporteur, i am sorry that we are holding this debate at this time, but i believe that it is our common love of boats, boating and shipbuilding that brings us here tonight. you know what they say, navigare necesse est, vivere non est necesse. it's one of the most important things in life that we're doing here. at the same time, the question is also very important for the regions i represent, for example, where shipbuilding is an important industry. i have been following the development of this directive ever since germany and sweden proposed that we should introduce uniform standards. today we can see that the agreement on this directive has prevented a fragmentation of the european market. i am also pleased that we have finally agreed on mutually similar standards for lakes and seas. in this context, i think the rapporteur has been very important. he has also shown in his speech today that he is aware of the situation in various parts of europe. i am grateful that he referred to my homeland. it is a sensible proposal that we have achieved and it is important for the environment. the directive also introduces something essential: noise regulations for watercraft. new watercraft placed on the market from 1 january 2005 must comply with the directive. when the commission is due to review the directive before the end of 2006, it is important that the noise issue of watercraft is examined in depth, as this is currently the main noise issue in many areas of the sensitive scandinavian archipelago. i am also pleased that agreement has been reached on a review of the various categories of vessels. you can't imagine the anxiety in finland over what would happen to the savoy boats. there was concern that they would be squeezed by the directive, a matter well known to the finnish commissioner. however, this too now seems to have been remedied. i hope that the review of the directive will be based on the new approach. this is a very detailed regulation which may have to be regulated differently in the future. finally, i agree with the rapporteur that it is a good solution not to require the commission to undertake in-use compliance testing. there are certainly many options, including voluntary schemes, to achieve precisely what we are seeking at more reasonable costs. on behalf of the eldr group, i would recommend that we approve the conciliation committee's report by acclamation.
mr president, a year ago mr john bolton, the deputy us secretary of state, said that the sole purpose of the international criminal court was to constrain american military power. well, if we have to choose between might and right, we obviously have to defend the international legal order. the coming weeks will test the eu's support for the icc, as the us is intensifying its efforts to obtain bilateral immunity agreements from third countries. we must support those countries which are coming under pressure. we must also monitor the situation and find out who is going to agree and who is going to resist. we do not have this information. furthermore, we would still like to know what steps the council is taking to guarantee that iraqi prisoners will not be arbitrarily tried by us military courts, but judged by independent international tribunals, preferably under the auspices of the united nations.
mr president, we live in a world where we can do better the better our neighbours and other fellow human beings can do. it is therefore important to develop policies that strengthen democracy and prosperity in the union's neighbourhood. when finland joined the european union, it became a neighbour of russia and shared a border with it of almost 1300 kilometres. that border still forms one of the deepest chasms of life in the world. despite the progress made, russia still has work to do in creating the structures of a democratic society. the eu and russia will continue to work together to strengthen democracy and civil society. the enlargement will mean that in addition to the finnish-russian border, the union will have 10 new interreg/tacis borders. the current system of cooperation can no longer be maintained, but the experience gained so far in this field must be carefully exploited. the new members will bring belarus, ukraine and moldova into the neighbourhood. each of these has significant political and economic problems. if they worsen, they could increase instability in europe. the worst situation is in belarus, whose political situation has prevented eu cooperation with it. the preparations for the 2004 elections, it is hoped, will open up new possibilities for cooperation. the commission's communication rightly emphasises crossborder and regional cooperation with the new neighbours. a new financial instrument for cooperation should be developed. i think it should be based on the principles of interreg and be flexible to the needs of each border region. the key principles are multiannualism, regional decision-making and the most efficient management and payment arrangements. it is also important that the expertise and cultural know-how of the new eu member states be rapidly incorporated into the design and implementation of the neighbourhood policy.
(fi) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must now take our relations with russia to a new stage. it is a historic moment in russia, in the union and in the world that action must be taken. we have not implemented this basic document, the partnership and cooperation agreement, except in part. the bureaucracy has been a brake on reforms, and in general the slowdown, the kaliningrad issue, environmental problems and problems of mass media have been draining the momentum. the terrorist attacks, for which i would like to express my deepest condolences to the families of the victims - and to the victims as well - show that there is opposition to a political solution in chechnya, even though, as i understand it, the russian government has set itself on the path to a political solution by holding elections. the human rights situation in russia requires a lot of work. it may be that the handling of this chechen issue, which is affecting our relations, would also require us, together with russia, to have a working party on the matter. so reforms in russia have been slow. at the same time, the countries of central and eastern europe will be strengthened more rapidly and more sustainably by the european union. russia may lose its market in the region and, in the worst case, enlargement could isolate russia. that is why i stress the need for a new approach: we need a new strategic partnership with russia. the war in iraq has shown that russia belongs to the european area of cooperation, and it is now the latest example of this. the focus of this partnership could be the modernisation of russia, a civil society mission. the economic stimulus would be energy cooperation, but little has been done in this area. the northern dimension, well funded, would strengthen this partnership. russia must get the investment protection agreement in place. the country must be admitted to the wto as soon as possible and also be involved in a certain way in european security cooperation. the fact is that the faster russia "westers", the faster human rights issues will be corrected. russia is building as many as three oil ports on the shallow, shallow gulf of finland, the world's busiest sea - the baltic sea. in winter, the ice sheet was up to two feet [70 cm] thick, and the thickness of the ice may have been as much as 65 feet [20 m]. last winter, dozens of ships drifted in the absence of icebreaker assistance, carrying ice - that is, ships bound for russia. in such extreme conditions, unarmed ships are an environmental bomb like the prestige. i ask the council what steps greece has taken as the greek presidency to ensure that only double-hulled ice-strengthened tankers that can safely go to these three new russian oil ports are allowed to enter. there's one thing about russia that's often overlooked. it is the significance of russian culture, which is still too little known in europe. now that our system the information society is crying out for content, russian content production could diversify and enrich european content production, which is in global competition. russia has already turned to the west, and i think it has also turned to the north, as is shown by the activity of the russians in the northern and north-western regions. this means that a new opportunity has now been created for the european union and russia to rapidly improve cooperation and to benefit from it.
(fi) mr president, the eldr group believes that the resolution agreed between the groups provides a good basis for the work of the eu-russia summit. the input is forward-looking and constructive, but also includes critical assessments. the resolution is also useful in view of the meeting of the parliamentary cooperation committee between the european parliament and the russian duma, which will be held in moscow next week. for my part, i would like to stress that we must strive to reduce economic and social disparities at all the external borders of the union. as the eu-russia border continues to widen, we need to develop crossborder cooperation vigorously. we must encourage the member states and their territories, particularly those on the eu's external borders, to establish direct cross-border links with russia. on the finnish-russian border, such systematic cooperation between neighbouring regions has been practised for more than a decade. similar action must now also be taken between estonia and russia on the one hand and latvia and russia on the other. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for the evaluation of medicinal products. the union must be prepared to finance this cooperation between neighbouring regions. a new financing system is needed for crossborder cooperation. the current tacis and interreg systems are not strong enough and have not been able to coordinate sufficiently. a new financing system must be created which can also be used at other external borders of the union. the phare system could be a model for this new system before it became part of the accession process.
mr president, mr president of the council and mr commissioner! i think that in this debate there is more sincerity in relations with russia than there has been for a long time. we have often before boasted of our achievements. today, however, we are quite clear that we are holding meetings but that the results are a little far away. i am pleased with this sincerity and i hope that the commission will indeed stick to its position. we don't need any new organs. the council has proposed 15 plus 1 i hope the eu will reject it. i also think it is a little too optimistic to say, as some of us here do, that we share the same values. there is a risk that the eu is not as unanimous in its attitude to russia as this debate shows. there are forces that could play on and share the eu's view. we are also silent on the question of chechnya. think of the question of new bodies and visa exemption. i really hope that the line taken by the commission will be upheld. if disagreement arises on these kinds of issues and if the commission and council's position does not hold then we will have a similar relationship between the eu and russia as we have today between the eu and america, that is to say that we are divided. i am pleased that the environmental issues have been raised by both the commission and the council. we've had some success with mnepr. but it wasn't really the pca that led to this, it was money. there are, in addition to the ones you mentioned, many other unresolved environmental issues. this concerns issues related to the stockholm conventions, the espoo conventions and maritime safety. i ask you to press on with the issues that are important to us, such as maritime safety. issues of maritime safety, the environment and human rights must be on the agenda.
mr president, mr president of the council! i wonder if there is any eu country which has declared itself ready to give amina lawal protection in the event that the judicial process does not go as we wish. has any country in the council shown a willingness to make such a request? if we are serious about protecting her, we must press our countries to provide her with protection from this kind of state persecution, which is de facto happening to many women.
firstly, i want to thank the council for its answer. unfortunately it contained very little on the issue of the situation of women in iraq. yesterday i was in the position to hear directly from baghdad a unicef representative saying that the shia have taken over sadr city, and that means difficulties for women. mrs elisabeth rehn, my predecessor here in parliament, wrote a very influential report dealing with the situation of women in both war and peace. she pointed out that it will be more difficult for women when there is peace. unfortunately, especially in afghanistan, we have a situation where women cannot be sure that they will not be raped. this is a problem in western afghanistan. please, council, what actions are you taking in the light of mrs rehn's work? she proposed several actions, including the suggestion that peacekeepers should be very well informed about the rights of women. as for the situation in iraq, is there any way you could intervene?
commission. – mr president, mrs ferrer’s report provides very interesting ideas for developing the concept of capacity building and to describe the means to implement it. this is an area we have identified as a priority for our development cooperation. it is the main element in our overall policy statement dating back to november 2000, and adopted also by parliament. we are working to improve the strategic approach to european union action on capacity building and are approaching it from the perspective of good governance. the report is therefore timely, because it comes as we prepare the communication on governance in community development policy. this being said, capacity building is typically an area that has to be mainstreamed in all our interventions, and is increasingly recognised as a key factor in all areas of development. our communication will give priority attention to three specific topics – governance in general, political governance and economic governance – three themes which we see as part of the broader agenda of capacity building. i fully agree with the approach followed in mrs ferrer’s report on searching for a definition. particularly relevant are the need to adapt capacity building to the context and the rather broad notion of capacity building, which includes not only the 'classic' inputs such as 'training and materials', but also a range of innovative aspects. the reference to the need to avoid imposing foreign models is also highly welcome – ownership has to be promoted. the different priority sectors mentioned also show an innovative approach to institutional development; the security issue, in particular, has indeed become one of the new political concerns. the specific problem that we face is that of setting priorities within the area of capacity building, linked to the scaling-up of activities. the need for capacity building is accepted everywhere. there is interest in the issue and, in principle, there is a readiness to provide funds. however, when one takes a snapshot of what happens in practice in this area, one sees a patchwork of uncoordinated activities, usually very small-scale and attached to specific projects or programmes. if we really want to promote ownership, this situation has to change. what is needed is improved priority-setting by developing countries themselves and more coordination and harmonisation among donors to promote activities on a larger scale and over the longer term. in fact, the formula i keep using in addressing what needs to be done on capacity building is that instead of having it as an additional measure here and there in the actions we are implementing, we have to turn capacity building into hard-core, big-money development cooperation and not shy away also from agreeing to cover recurrent costs as part of the capacity building effort. finally, i agree with the criticism of the problems in assessing the impact of the community-financed interventions within our statistics in the commission. this problem is being addressed. it is one of many aspects of the same problem that we are working on. the communication will deal with this issue by devoting a chapter to current practices within the commission and lessons learned. the recommendations of the rapporteur in this respect are very welcome. i conclude by once again thanking the rapporteur.
(fi) mr president, if the world were a village of 100 people, 61 of its inhabitants would be asian, 13 african, 12 european, 8 north american and 6 south american. two or three villagers would have access to the internet. and the phone would be owned by 16 people. sixty-five percent of the world's villagers would have had at least some schooling at some point in their lives. every year, there would be a funeral in the village, and at least two new children would be born there. the world bank classifies as absolute poor those who live on less than a dollar a day. the measure is partly misleading because it does not take into account, for example, the importance of public or community services for the disadvantaged. nor does it say anything about health, powerlessness, or insecurity. so, in addition to wealth, we should also talk about power. in addition to the wealth accumulated by the few, attention should be given to the management of the common wealth, represented by, for example, common lands and territories, oceans, a large proportion of forests, biodiversity, the global climate system, public spaces in cities, public libraries, schools and hospitals, and scientific and traditional knowledge. the debate on globalization and poverty tends to focus on one dimension of poverty: income and consumption poverty. the arguments for and against globalisation are also often tied to economic definitions of poverty: proponents point to gdp growth, opponents point to food price increases and unemployment increases. the consumer culture and economic thinking have a paradox: the richer we are, the more we are in need, because globalisation is changing needs and the nature of poverty. many communities, with areas where natural resources have not been destroyed or exploited, with sufficient food and shelter, and where communal culture is healthy, can be at least as good places to live as cities in rich countries. however, as a result of globalization, many initially prosperous members of the local community become suffering members of the global community. it is therefore very good that mr ferrer's excellent report is strongly and on every page about the partnership. it recognises the mistakes and wrong attitudes in development policies that have prevailed for too long, such as the focus on technical solutions and the recourse to foreign models. it recognises the need for a participatory process and the views of local communities. i would also like to stress the right to our own natural resources. i can only hope that this will be taken seriously in the member states when allocating and targeting development cooperation resources. in my country, there was an election in march. during the election campaign, almost all parties promised to increase development funding. it was even included in the government's programme as a pious wish, but the actual implementation was left to the next government. this is not strengthening capacity, and in a globalising world, it will eventually take its toll on us.
(fi) mr president, tackling the education crisis is one of the most effective means available to break the cycle of poverty and achieve the 2015 human development goals. the committee on development and cooperation and rapporteur, mr van den berg, deserve our thanks for their report, which shows a sense of familiarity and genuine concern. now it seems that the target of universal primary education by 2015 is falling short. it is a single factor that is significantly undermining all the other work being done to reduce poverty in the world. the funding needed is €8 billion per year. it is a lot, but it is not impossible, for the right of everyone to education, as stated in the united nations declaration of human rights over 50 years ago, to be realized. the rapporteur rightly points out that the commission should participate in the world bank's 'education for all' 'fast track' programme. the rapporteur also warns the eu against accepting training as a service to the wto gats agreement. basic education must be kept free of the rules of free trade and the criteria of productivity. we must trust that raising the level of education and increasing literacy is the best that world trade can hope for. the g8 countries must therefore also be reminded of their commitment to substantially fund the fast track initiative. my own experience of working in the field of development cooperation confirms that there is a need to invest in girls' education in particular. it's the key to progress. it can be used to combat overpopulation, because an educated woman will give birth to fewer children. women's education is also a way out of the trap that many asian women and girls find themselves in: life-threatening from the womb to the grave, discrimination that begins before birth and continues throughout life. where the girl is a foreign asset and a burden on the family, only a determined change in attitudes and the opening up of educational opportunities will guarantee change.
(fi) mr president, i fully agree with the previous speaker, mr della vedova, that the greatest challenge to economic sustainability is the ageing of europe, which must be addressed while its economic effects are still manageable. the status quo is certainly not an option for european governments. to prepare for the overall and budgetary effects of population ageing, we need to increase employment, reduce public debt and reform pension and health care systems. the additional costs of postponing pension reforms will be borne by today's young people in the future. change - even necessary and inevitable change - always faces resistance to change, as we have also experienced this week in strasbourg. however, this resistance to change must not be used as an excuse and an obstacle to delaying the necessary reforms. the economic situation in europe is worrying and our economic growth is clearly below forecasts. the disappearance of geopolitical risks now gives some hope for faster economic growth, but many experts also point out that the forecasts for the last two years have always postponed the acceleration of economic growth to the next six months. our weak economic growth is largely due to home-made, made in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the only positive aspect is the low rate of inflation, which has averaged around 2% and is likely to fall further. at their summits, the heads of state of our member states have pledged to implement structural reforms to promote growth and stability. however, the practical implementation has been very lacking and weak economic growth and mass unemployment are the prices we pay for postponing these reforms. if we want the broad economic policy guidelines to deliver, they must include a clear work programme defining the main reform measures and a timetable for their completion. in addition, the guidelines shall list the specific measures needed in areas where internal political deadlock has prevented progress in certain member states. the eu continues to be characterised by the under-utilisation of human resources. our low employment rate in international terms is also due to the false incentives in our benefit systems which contribute to the exit from working life or to the absence from it. reform of tax and benefit systems is needed, including by easing the excessive tax rates for low-income earners. however, tax relief must be granted to all wage earners. more flexible working time arrangements and lighter regulatory regimes would improve both labour market participation and employment opportunities.
(fi) mr president, in accordance with the provisions of the ec treaty, the committee on economic and monetary affairs heard the council's recommendation to mrs sirkka hämäläinen to replace mrs gertrude tumpel-gugerell on the executive board of the european central bank. mrs tumpel-gugerell's background makes her an excellent choice, given the main requirements of the ec treaty for a member of the executive board of the ecb: personal independence, recognised status and professional experience in the field of monetary and banking affairs. but beyond this formal qualification, there are three factors that in particular justified the choice of tumpel-gugerell for the post in question. first, extensive work experience and convincing expertise were, of course, the basic prerequisites. but even the most excellent individuals do not succeed on their own merits unless the background is viewed positively. austria's reputation as a competitive member state with a responsible policy under the present government probably contributed to the choice. the member states of the union joined together in a stability and growth pact to safeguard europe's competitiveness and economic prosperity. the challenges are broadly the same in all member states: the harmful rigidity of labour markets that sustains mass unemployment in the member states of the european union and the need to balance the public revenue and expenditure frameworks. the ageing population will put unsustainable financial strains on our pension and social systems unless we implement the necessary reforms in time. the austrian government has taken the first major steps to safeguard its public pension system. i wish the austrian government good luck and success in this task, despite the considerable resistance to change. the importance of public pension schemes is such that it is the most disadvantaged citizens who need them most to secure their retirement. secondly, the choice of tumpel-gugerl was supported in particular by the fact that the european union is a forum for cooperation between member states of different sizes. it is essential for the equality and functioning of the union that experts from small member states also be able to participate directly in decision-making. as a finn, i know that the choice of the austrian tumpel-gugerell was the right decision from this point of view as well. third, the church had not announced that a woman would be chosen to succeed the locust. i am pleased that the continuation of the role of women in the main decision-making body of the european central bank was possible - without, of course, compromising on expertise and professionalism.
mr president, i would like to thank you. our purpose today is to remove all the rules that make a mockery of our work. we should also appreciate the work that our president has done to improve the image of parliament. colleagues, i therefore appeal to you: let us not allow the use of legal expertise, of the judiciary, of primary rights to prevent what is most essential in this case, namely that all those who vote in the 2004 european elections do so with pride, that our work is transparent, that our rules are open. that's the most important thing! dear friends, even though we all agree that there are details that are not quite perfect, see the big picture, support the opportunity that now exists and that many have said before may not come back. my dear friends, a ship will sink if you have the wrong idea of its surroundings. i'm afraid many people have the wrong idea of what's possible. use a real map, a real chart of the sea. the real sea map in this case is to accept the amendments of the liberals and others. that is the right course to follow.
(fi) mr president, the liberalisation of the energy market has been an ideological project. the smoke screen of market thinking has been spread over some real problems. markets are always one-way, they always operate in the here and now. the prices do not take into account the structural changes that occur when resources are depleted. the liberalisation of the gas market will not secure the financing of investments that will take place over decades. when all the additional energy needs of the eu are met by gas and when gas is imported from the east, those who need gas should contribute to the investment costs of new gas fields. in a liberalised market, only short-term benefits are discounted. it should be possible to conclude long-term gas supply contracts. in the short-term interest market, they don't make them. in the electricity market, ownership of networks may pose problems. if the public authorities do not invest in and maintain the transmission grids, the market will not function. without public investment in the grid and network responsibility, electricity cannot be moved from one place to another. i was working on the report on nuclear safety in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy. in that capacity, i see the problems that may affect electricity pricing. nuclear power may be cheap on the spot market, but we are not sure that the prices fully take into account the costs of decommissioning and disposal of nuclear waste, which extend over hundreds and perhaps thousands of years. if these costs are not discounted to the market price of electricity sold today, competition will be distorted. market liberalisation will determine prices in the short term but will not solve the major problems of the future; new oil wars in iraq will arise. our group would have liked to secure public and public-interest energy services in the context of these liberalisation and privatisation directives.
(fi) mr president, the energy policy we are discussing today must be seen as a whole, which has a significant impact on the functioning of the energy market in europe. the transeuropean energy networks are improving the backbone and skeleton of the market. the liberalization package, on the other hand, improves the circulation and digestion of the market. the liberalization must be continued and the network improved. the next round should also involve the new member states more closely. the council has had to deal with both entities in a very serious way. finally, a compromise has been reached on energy networks, which provides the necessary flexibility to amend annex iii, while ensuring adequate parliamentary scrutiny. it has not been easy to reach this compromise. the liberalisation of the energy markets is not a scientific breakthrough, at least from a nordic point of view, but it is a good thing that they are being liberalised. this is definitely a step in the right direction. if necessary, the commission will make further proposals to further liberalise the market. contrary to what a few of our socialist friends think they know, the nordic free and open market works well. consumer choice has increased, prices have fallen, service has improved and operations have become more efficient. the market mechanisms have worked perfectly. it must be accepted that in a free market, prices can sometimes rise. rarely, though, does one of the driest summers in a century coincide with one of the coldest winters. the key to liberalising the energy market is to guarantee unhindered access to the networks. the clear separation of network activities and the sufficiently harmonised role of regulatory authorities are therefore the two key elements of this package. without them, we can forget the word 'competition' when we talk about the electricity and gas markets. it is time to finish the package, the compromises proposed are entirely acceptable. the package is necessary, but not sufficient, for a functioning market. we are now creating the framework legislation, but we also need to monitor its implementation. the commission must have the proper tools to monitor the functioning of the market. it is also essential to ensure that adequate investment is made in the future. finally, i would like to thank all those who have contributed to the preparation of this package. this has been a long, challenging and painstaking process.
the committee on energy, research and technology (cern) has tabled an opinion on the proposal. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. let me first make a very personal remark. the week before the prestige disaster, my party and i organised a conference on maritime safety in the gulf of finland, i.e. on the very issues that john purvis mentioned. you can understand my feeling when i then guessed and finally could confirm where prestige really came from and realized that the situation could have been exactly the same in the gulf of finland as on the galician coast. at the same time, we know that we can probably expect a tenfold increase in transport volumes through the baltic sea. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has been very active on this issue. we are also trying to improve the reputation of parliament. as for the erika package, we may not have had, as they say, 'truly pure flour in the bag'. the committee on the environment also stresses the importance of neighbouring countries joining the same rules, since such tankers are sailing close to our coasts even if they do not call at eu ports, as john purvis also pointed out. we also support the proposal for 2010 as the final phasing-out year, which the council has agreed to and we are now prepared to agree. we also propose that the inspection requirements be taken into account. we would have liked to see the inspection requirements applied regardless of age. we are talking about 15 year old ships, but it is important that a ship, regardless of its age, has a good class, a good standard and a good maintenance. our experience shows that what the eu agrees to becomes imo rules. we saw that last time with the oil fund. i am concerned that at this stage we have not been able to adopt the environment committee's proposal to include in an article that we should require ice reinforcement. i would like to ask the commissioner: why has the commission objected to the fact that we should now introduce in an article, in addition to the requirement for the phasing out of single-hull vessels and the requirement for double-hulls, also requirements for ice reinforcement?
mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. you said there's a lot of measures that need to be taken. as we have heard here, ice reinforcement is also required in some lake areas. is the commission prepared to support the introduction of a binding provision in this regulation? or what other measures is the commission prepared to take?
(fi) mr president, we in the committee on budgets have drawn attention to the fact that the use of the guarantee fund mechanism is a very cheap way for the eu to provide economic aid to third countries. the guarantees enable the countries in difficulty to obtain credit from the international market at lower market rates. the absence of credit losses for the eu in recent years is an indication that the eligibility criteria have worked. in recent years, the guarantee fund has provided financial assistance in the form of macrofinancial assistance and general loan guarantees to the european investment bank. the ceiling for their use is set by the guarantee fund ceiling laid down in the financial perspective. the committee on budgets has noted with surprise that the commission and the european investment bank did not make full use of the guarantee fund's capacity last year. the resources available have been squandered and poor countries have not been helped. the use of this assistance instrument may be supplemented by minor technical changes to the guarantee conditions which do not in practice cause difficulties for the union budget. all the institutional parties are prepared to reduce the financing rate of loans from the current 9% to 8%. this would reduce the amount of money to be covered by the corresponding transfer of the guarantee fund for each credit transaction. the general guarantee on loans granted by the european investment bank could also be reduced from 65% to 50% of the loan. this measure would have the same effect on the use of the guarantee fund as a reduction in the financing rate, and the same maximum quota would be allocated more than it should be. the commission shall make such proposals without delay.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, we are facing a major reform which is now inevitable. our committee has prepared a large number of amendments to the commission's proposal in a spirit of good cooperation. these amendments are aimed at refining the reform so that it is good for the farmer. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the cap. the unfavourable circumstances must be taken into account when allocating rural development resources; my group has therefore tabled an amendment which introduces the number of lfa areas as a new criterion for the allocation criteria. in milk production we should not rush ahead unless the market situation demands it. it must be remembered that milk production is particularly important in less-favoured areas, where price reductions can seriously undermine the incentive to produce. mr commissioner, in finland, the rubies have a very special status. there, very high-quality rye is used to produce health-promoting foods. such special circumstances should also be taken into account by the commission. for us, rice is not an average grain for fodder, but a daily tasty breakfast and the raw material of our traditional food culture.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i do not usually thank the co-rapporteurs, but this time i would like to thank alexander de roo for the good cooperation, as well as all my colleagues. we've worked openly and constructively. i have assumed that we actually want to improve the environmental situation in the coastal states. when we look at the commission proposal and when we look at annex vi to the marpol convention today, we can note that, according to information i have received, it would come into force quite soon, since 47.57% of the world tonnage is bound by it. i must say, however, that it is a shame that so many eu countries have not ratified it, including the country i know best. but i think that the example of marpol shows that the commission's proposal may not have been as ambitious as we would have liked and that we must move on. when we come together to take action in the field of shipping, we can achieve a great deal today internationally, as mr lange also said. the eu and the candidate countries together have such a large fleet that we often get our rules in force in the imo. i therefore also see the directive and the improvements we are making in the light of it. that's how we're supposed to work together. we've been talking a lot about the new reduction methods, which goodwill mentioned i've been concerned about. i would like the commission to follow up the environmental impact of the directive in a frank and comprehensive manner. it may be that things get better for one part of the environment while they get worse for another. we need a broad-based monitoring system in different ecosystems in different types of water. you have to look at the big picture. finally, i would say that our group will ask for a separate vote on amendments nos 20 and 21 to clarify any ambiguities. our group will also vote against them because we do not think they are feasible.
mr president, the preparatory commission has made progress on many policy issues. it is particularly important that the fundamental rights of eu citizens are defined as a binding part of the union's action. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council by the end of the year. the task of the preparatory committee was to make proposals to make decision-making more efficient, clearer, more democratic and more transparent. this mandate cannot involve the creation of new institutions. the council's work certainly needs reform, decisions must be made in an open way and there must be continuity in the work, but this cannot be achieved by a permanent long-term president who is outside democratic control or by reducing the commission's initiative and executive powers. the support of citizens is particularly essential for the future of the eu. one institution that is visible in all the member states is the commission. in the interests of equality, therefore, all member states must continue to have a member of the commission. the work of the preparatory committee has been moving in the right direction in the development of eu legislation. i support the call made today by commission president prodi to abandon the right of veto in the eu decision-making process. the use of veto power will not do any good, because it will only complicate and delay decision-making. one of the eu's priorities during this period has been food safety. however, the location of the food authority has not been resolved because this veto has been exercised. it is necessary to open this knot in thessaloniki and decide that the permanent seat of the food safety authority is helsinki. the helsinki european council has already made all the preparations to enable the agency to start work immediately after the decision. finally, i would like to express my special thanks to the greek presidency for its contribution to maritime safety.
in writing. -{} we, ulpu iivari, reino paasilinna and riitta myller, members of the delegation of the finnish social democratic party, voted in favour of the new members' statute because we believe that it is essential and that its rejection would mean the continuation of the present system. the reimbursement of travel expenses in accordance with actual costs has always been our objective. however, final approval depends on the application to the statute of the compromise reached during the belgian presidency, which grants finland the right to tax the salaries of its meps. we also hope that parliament will be prepared, in the negotiations with the council, to abandon the proposals concerning the immunity of members, which the council cannot approve.
in writing. - (sv) i have been working intensively in this parliament for many years to establish a statute for members and i sincerely hope that it can come into force before the next parliamentary term. unfortunately, i note that the majority of the european parliament has deliberately given the draft statute a form which, for understandable reasons, can hardly be approved by the council. as the commission has pointed out in its report, the provisions on the immunity of members go beyond what is acceptable in this context. it would be tragic if the statute were to be applied only after a new constitutional treaty has entered into force - for parliament, probably in 2009. at the same time, an option was approved allowing the new member states to apply different rules for two parliamentary terms. parliament was unable to convince the house that it actually wanted to achieve a situation where travel expenses would be reimbursed on the basis of actual costs. the european parliament voted to exclude the possibility for countries wishing to apply a national tax. for the status to become a reality, parliament must be prepared to negotiate the final outcome. by voting against, i want to make it clear that the house is divided and that the leaders of parliament must negotiate the final result.
(fi) mr president, almost a hundred years of history have shown us europeans that in the face of our continent's difficulties, the united states has always been a helper in need. in world war i, it became the key to preventing the expansion of imperial germany. in world war ii, the united states was instrumental in freeing germany and france from hitler's yoke and the rest of europe from his quest for power. the end of the cold war, with the dissolution of the soviet union and the liberation of central europe from communism and the countries under soviet yoke, was in a crucial way the result of president ronald reagan's arms race, which the soviet economic and social system could not withstand. today, when we talk about the crisis in relations between the united states and europe, we are talking more about the crisis in relations within europe and the crisis in relations between certain individual countries and the united states. the majority of the eu's 25 current and future member states have normal relations with the united states. the unilateralism of some countries in the internal affairs of the eu shows that we are still light years away from a common foreign and security policy in times of crisis. the majority of the 25 european countries supported the un security council's approval of the launching of the iraq war. most do not accept the us claim to be able to be placed outside the international system on war crimes issues. we disagree on the meaning of the kyoto agreement and every day there are negotiations to resolve economic differences. nevertheless, the similarity of the basic values and the common security aspects, where europe is still more of a recipient than a donor, provide a solid basis for looking to the future in supporting the transatlantic partnership and indeed in building the programme of action that my colleague james elles has just mentioned. we in europe can no longer catch up with the united states in defense technology - perhaps we don't need to. but we can - and we must - settle our differences and work towards a common foreign and security policy. only then will we be a worthy partner in unifying matters and strong enough on matters where we disagree with the united states to have our views taken into account in the united states, whose largest trading partner we are - as we heard about us investment in europe. they show that the united states is interested in the positive development of our relations, that it is essential for us. we can accept a boycott of french wines in the united states if the counterpart is the ordering of 100 airbuses to the united states, as just happened about a week ago.
(fi) mr president, mr commissioner, in lisbon in the spring of 2000, an ambitious target was set to make europe the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world within 10 years. the summit's conclusions were accompanied by a number of concrete objectives for education, particularly in the field of information technology. in addition to learning about information technology, the lisbon process emphasises the importance of lifelong learning. in the european parliament's committee on culture we welcome the rise of education on the union's agenda. we need common goals, common indicators and common actions. the new jobs are mainly for tasks requiring specific skills. it skills are required in most professions today. it is also part of the modern civic skills, the lack of which makes life more difficult and exposes people to exclusion. education is not only the key to citizens' participation, but also the basic condition for the success of our societies. it is good that the eu education ministers have been able to agree together on concrete objectives for education and that the bologna and bruges processes for the recognition of qualifications are under way. the committee on culture believes that open coordination is needed not only in education and lifelong learning but also in other areas of the committee's remit, such as youth, information, cultural and sport policies. increased cooperation strengthens the functioning of the internal market and the well-being and inclusion of citizens. in this way, we create the conditions for the integrity of societies, for sustainable development and for faith in the future. the introduction of open coordination in the field of education has, however, been problematic despite its promising objectives. it has increased the power of officials and pushed aside both the european parliament and national parliaments in terms of information and influence. we can't go on like this. the committee on culture, culture, education and the media has called for a clearer and more effective role for the european parliament. it is necessary for the process to have a democratic justification. the committee also stressed that the open method of coordination must not develop into a closed procedure, like other legislative procedures, which undermines the legislative objectives set out in the ec treaty. the resolution calls on the council and the commission to negotiate with the european parliament an interinstitutional agreement on the open method of coordination. the agreement should contain rules for the selection of policy areas to be included in the open method of coordination and a methodology for their consistent application. the european parliament must be able to participate fully and on equal terms in decision-making. the committee believes that the interinstitutional agreement should include rules on the involvement of the european parliament in the development of the objectives and indicators, and should also provide for access to documents, participation in meetings, monitoring of progress and information. the most important thing is that a community method of open coordination is developed. it should be decided now at the european council and the forthcoming intergovernmental conference, which are in the final stages of preparation. the smet report on open coordination in the employment and social fields, which is under discussion today, is in line with the objectives of the committee on culture. it is good that two of parliament's committees are active in creating a parliamentary dimension for the open coordination that we so badly need in europe.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, colleagues and observers, if you are awake. since i only started working in parliament in april, at the same time as the observers, i would like to mention them. i still feel a little like an observer myself. i am now honoured to speak in the house for the first time and i am glad to have been given a subject which i feel is very personal having gathered strength and refreshment from sport all my life. maybe that's why we're all still here in good health. i am pleased to note that the rapporteur, mrs fraisse, has included, if not all, then many of the amendments tabled by the green group and the european free alliance in our committee. in these amendments our group has sought to bring out the same point which the rapporteur, mrs fraisse, has to some extent incorporated in her report. women's sport also faces a political and economic problem: participation in decision-making. to solve this, we need real equality actions. we should remember that sport is not just a competition, a top-level performance or a world record, but that for most people sport and exercise are the means to a healthy and balanced life in an increasingly demanding and busy society. we want to emphasize this aspect more strongly in the report. exercise and sports have a vital effect, both in individual and team sports. there are also a number of other points which i should like to stress now that i have the floor. it would be very important to improve opportunities for people other than those who are healthy to participate in sport. sport is a highly effective, psychotherapeutic and socially beneficial way of improving the quality of life and everyday life of people with illness and disability. a man who cannot walk on his own legs can ride, that is, borrow the legs of a horse. it's a sport. the second important point to consider is that older women and men must also be given the same opportunities for exercise and sport as younger and older people. the health and rehabilitative effect of sport cannot be overemphasized here either. these two very important additions are now included in the report. however, i would have liked to see a little more emphasis on how sport is the most effective way of integrating immigrants, women and children, into the new society. we are, however, quite happy with the report and we are only asking for a few separate votes on a few points. i hope that particular attention will be paid to the fact that sports as a subject should not be judged in schools by the same criteria as scientific subjects such as foreign languages or mathematics. i would also like to see the report omitted from the reference to sport as a fundamental human right. i believe that sport is a right for all people, but i think the concept of a fundamental right would be inflationary in this context. the report should also remove the names of those countries which did not send mixed teams to the last olympics, although it is important to call on all countries to send mixed teams. if this report passes the vote in parliament tomorrow - as i hope it will - i am, however, somewhat doubtful as to what the commission and the member states will do about it. it is therefore very important that the report be followed up, and i now call on the commissioner responsible to submit a follow-up report on the recommendations of this report before the end of the current parliamentary term in 2004. i thank mrs fraisse for this report and for her passionate defence of the whole issue.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, the initiative report on breast cancer from the committee on women's rights and gender equality which is now before us is balanced and well thought out. i am sure that a special thanks goes to the rapporteur, karin jöns. the report focuses on quality standards and best practice which can be evaluated in the context of community health policy and which can be disseminated in all member states. at present, there are large differences in the quality of care for breast cancer patients between member states and regions. unfortunately, this directly affects the survival of women with breast cancer, who are directly affected by inequalities in the provision of screening, diagnosis and treatment services. according to recent statistics from the world health organization, breast cancer kills some 80 000 women in the union every year. it is the most common cancer among women and the leading cause of death among middle-aged women in the eu. it can be estimated that the rise in the standard of living and the change in lifestyles of women in the new member states and candidate countries will further worsen the figures. the creation of a network of national cancer registries covering the whole of the enlarged union is urgently needed in order to provide evidence-based and comparable data for research. now, in addition to my own country, only seven member states of the union have such registers, and they cover less than half of the union's citizens. it is desirable that the commission should devote community resources in particular to improving research into the causes and treatment of breast cancer and to methods for evaluating the effectiveness of treatment. in addition to socioeconomic and lifestyle factors, heredity is a major risk factor for breast cancer. so far, two genetic defects have been identified that cause breast cancer. a patent application is pending at the european patent office to patent these breast cancer genes. the granting of such a patent would be extremely detrimental to research and treatment development. the decision of the patent office is of striking significance. it is the interest and duty of all european actors to ensure that the human genetic code is not patented but is freely available for research and the development of medical treatments. finally, i would like to take this opportunity to thank commissioner diamantopoulou for the kindness with which you welcomed a group of finnish schoolchildren in april and took the trouble to come to parliament to meet them in person. your humane and very warm demeanor won us all over and inspired and encouraged these young people in their problems.
(fi) mr president, a constitution is being proposed for the european union. it was prepared in a preparatory committee, where the draft was adopted by federalist consensus, using the method of dictatorship of the politburo. it's another coup d'etat by the big countries. majority decisions deprive small countries of the veto power which is reserved for the three large countries when they act together. the member states lose a permanent commissioner with a vote, although the commission retains a monopoly on initiating all eu legislation. the fact that he is president and that foreign policy is not left in the hands of the commission makes the new eu a more decentralised federation than the federalist will of the european parliament delegation would have been. the constitution militarizes the eu and it says nato. when the other pillars were knocked down, a new nato pillar was erected. the non-aligned countries should not sign the declaration on collective security guarantees annexed to the constitution. the eu's common defence can also constitute a common illegal attack.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. the european convention proposes that the conservation of marine biological resources should be an exclusive competence of the union, while fisheries should be an area of shared competence between the eu and the member states. this question has fallen into the shadows of the great debate on the future. the proposal of the convention to separate these areas is very incomprehensible to anyone who is more familiar with fisheries matters. the rules on how to fish are the rules by which we decide on the conservation of biological resources. regulations on mesh size, fishing times and gear allowances help to regulate fishing and preserve the marine environment. it is also very important for the marine environment that the support for floating fish factories be ended. for me and for many others, it is unclear how the convention's proposals would work in practice. what will this mean for the sealers and the fishing industry, for example? in this connection, i hope that the commissioner will tell those who fish in the kvarken, the gulf of finland and the archipelago how this decision-making process will be carried out. i would ask the commission to clarify its position on these issues as well. for eu action on the marine environment to be effective, both better enforcement and fewer exceptions are needed, as well as more effective international cooperation. we are succeeding internationally when we cooperate, for example with the oil fund, but there are other examples. however, it also means that the member states must be prepared to put forward important proposals, such as the latest one on the criminalisation of intentional oil spills, but unfortunately we see that legal complexities are hindering the directive in the council. despite the adoption of a directive on reception equipment, intentional oil spills have not decreased. finally, commissioner, i would urge you to take a firm stand against helcom, the baltic sea commission for the environment. it cannot be a relic of the cold war, issuing recommendations that do not lead to action. after eu enlargement, helcom can be a body to carry out the task under the water framework directive. helcom needs the commission's support for its reform, especially as the new director, who will take office on 1 august for the first time in history, is a woman. this organization can give effect to the regional approach which we are calling for from both parliament and the commission. i would also ask commissioner wallström to convince her colleague, mr de palacio, that the commission should be more active in supporting finland and sweden in the field of ice classification. unfortunately, only italy and the commission opposed the nordic proposals for clearer maritime rules in this part of the eu.
mr president, the marine environment on the surface is still very poorly understood. that makes it difficult to arrange effective protection. even some well-known and well-tracked species, mainly economically important species, have suffered a threatening decline in many places. so how can we protect species that we don't even know about? but protection is the starting point of the eu's maritime strategy. that is why i have proposed that we allocate sufficient funds to enable the inventory and study of marine species. the baltic sea conservation commission (helcom) has issued more than 200 recommendations to improve the state of the baltic sea. these recommendations are not binding on the member states, but the commission could examine them and propose binding provisions for eu member states on the basis of them. the eu must also contribute to the conservation of the marine life of the north. this would be most effectively achieved if the eu joined the arctic council in addition to the nordic countries, the usa, canada and russia. it would strengthen the euro-atlantic consensus on the environment. the european union has environments, such as many areas of the baltic and mediterranean, whose nature may not recover from a major oil spill. this requires increased negotiations with, inter alia, russia to develop common stricter standards for transport vessels. it is essential that oil tankers operating in difficult conditions such as the ice conditions last winter are fit for purpose. the commission should undertake a modification project under the unclos to allow for the intervention of third-country transport vessels operating in or near eu territorial waters if they are considered to pose a serious threat. in addition to oil damage, harmful noise from equipment used for mapping natural resources in the soil should be taken into account as pollution. i would also like to draw the attention of the commission and the council to the lack of oil-defence capability in the member states. i myself recently investigated the situation by sending inquiries to the relevant authorities in the baltic sea countries. the answers were stark: finland and sweden were the best off, with equipment that would practically clean up oil from the breakdown of a large passenger ship's fuel tank. in the event of a major disaster, the equipment of these countries would be insufficient even if they were together. for example, the gulf of finland is already transporting some 40 million tons of oil a year, and that amount is expected to double within ten years. the commission should initiate an inventory of oil-defence capabilities in eu waters and determine the minimum capacity required to meet regional conditions and transport volumes.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. it was said earlier this evening that what is at stake is to have rules that do not risk abuse of power, corruption and friendly politics. it is therefore important that we achieve the simplification that was the intention of the commission's proposal. however, i am afraid that we are missing our mission to make sure that it works in this way, because the majority in the committee have voted for many restrictions that can cost taxpayers in europe dearly. the eldr group considers that there is no reason to raise the thresholds. it would be contrary to our international obligations, as has been said many times. we also do not believe in the argument of raising the thresholds, because there are now so few crossborder tenders. on the contrary, we can achieve more crossborder procurement by simplifying the directive, by the simplified procedure to be applied and by more electronic tenders. the eldr group is concerned that parliament's amendments, such as 20, would reduce the publicity surrounding procurement in most member states. it is important that competitors are able to verify the correctness of the procedure after the closing of the procurement. amendment no 24 must therefore be rejected. the zeal with which the other political groups have supported amendment no 20 to increase secrecy sometimes makes me wonder whether we all know what we have decided on access to documents in the eu. the liberal group, which is otherwise relatively satisfied with the common position, is concerned, however, that the council's position would allow less scope for taking account of environmental considerations than the existing case law. we have therefore tabled a proposal to amend rule 53 again, which was supported by almost the whole house at first reading. we also reject the amendments tabled by the committee which give the directive a form which prevents reorganisation and modernisation of public administration. we are also unhappy about the restrictions that the majority of this parliament has wanted for electronic tenders, including stricter regulations than those envisaged in the directive on electronic signatures. i am surprised at the distrust of colleagues towards electronic tenders but the confidence in fax messages, which often lead to leaks of information. the eldr group therefore wants to work towards simplification and modernisation. we therefore hope that we will vote wisely on these matters.
allow me perhaps to correct the commissioner on one point: parliament would probably have wanted a higher degree of harmonisation with regard to the directive in question. i have a question, however, to you as the person responsible for the internal market. you said that existing differences in the charging system are irrelevant. i think we would need a review, particularly in view of the single market. do the differences in charging systems between european countries matter? do they impede the internal market and lead to distortions? i believe that the developments in europe should be examined in the light of a functioning internal market. i think it would be important to have an account of how it has developed with reasonable compensation or fair compensation. what are the facts of the case? but above all, as the commissioner responsible for the internal market, i would like to say to you that i believe that the differences in charges affect consumer behaviour and create unequal conditions of competition.
(fi) mr president, the three reports now before us are important details in the effort to ensure food safety and consumer welfare. i'd like to thank my colleagues for their excellent work. in the common market, consumers are confronted daily with new and unusual products and manufacturers on the shelves of their familiar local shops and must be able to rely on the fact that quality control and food safety are a reality in the common market. it is regrettable that the eu's activity in setting such important standards is so often seen as an unnecessary intrusion into detail. one reason, of course, is that the european press often deliberately tries to present things in a negative light and to ignore the real problem at hand. the reasons for this are not political but journalistic: stories need colour, and that colour is often unfortunately obtained by inciting images of threats, not by spreading factual information. the most recent example is the news of the limitation of the maximum levels of pahs in foodstuffs to protect the health of consumers. the commission's very appropriate research project has been transformed into a horror story, at least in the finnish press, about whether the eu is now banning private people's barbecues and our summer delicacy, the barbecue sauce. the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. unfortunately, this unfounded portrayal of threats by the people is going nowhere and is generating negativity and resentment. it is therefore important that the good work done in parliament to protect human health should receive even greater support from the eu information. it seems that more detailed information on the background must be provided at the preparatory stage, so that no urban legends of the eu without a foundation can be born.
(fi) mr president, as has already been said in several speeches here, it is important to improve the current directive on packaging waste. the recycling and reuse targets for the next five years, as presented, are ambitious but not at all excessive. the commission has already taken action in many member states to reach a much higher level than that proposed. these proposed objectives are very achievable, and if we have less ambitious objectives, then, for example, an industry which uses new materials could not develop. however, in order to reach the targets, good measures already taken in the various member states to achieve the highest recycling and recovery targets should be taken into account. for example, countries with good experience in recycling should also continue to be encouraged in this area. as the rapporteur has pointed out, economic and ecological considerations must be taken into account in this context. so i would point out that when wood is put forward for recycling, these specific ecological and economic considerations are not necessarily taken into account. the 15% target for wood is a small target, but in a country like finland, for example, the environmental damage of transport is far greater than the benefits of recycling this wood. it is much more ecologically sensible to burn this wood as a source of energy in private homes. i therefore hope that the house will use common sense and support amendment no 26, which is a proposal by the rapporteur and others.
(fi) mr president, it is commendable that the rapporteur of this parliament has taken the lead in the rapid revision of the objectives and thus avoided the temptation to start an over-large and thorough revision now. it's time for another connection. i would like to make a few comments on my amendments, which are contained in the recommendation adopted by the committee and also in the compromise between the parties. in implementing the targets, material discrimination on the basis of weight should be avoided. however, this is not the case if, for example, the charges are based solely on weight and do not take into account the environmental impact of each material. clarification is necessary to get the picture right. the objective of recycling 55% by weight of packaging waste and the related obligation to take into account the environmental costs and benefits of collecting and recycling packaging materials means that material-specific obligations should not be unilaterally increased, even if this would speed up the achievement of a 55% recycling rate. the commission has promised to present a report in 2005, one of which will deal with recycling. i would like to point out that the report deals with reuse and, in particular, with the comparison of the ecological benefits of reuse and recycling. it is precisely the real environmental impact and the assessment of the functioning of the market that should be the focus of the report. important details are the examples of products in the annex which are not packaging covered by this directive: tubes and rolls wrapped in flexible material, backing paper for label trays and wrapping and gift wrapping paper sold as separate products. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, allowances are not ready-made in nature and are not the result of human activity. they're administratively allocated abstract rights to pollute the atmosphere. emissions trading is not a market mechanism. it redistributes emissions among polluters, but does not reduce emissions. the most unfair way to allocate emission allowances is to auction them. it's as simple as a radio frequency auction: they bought and sold airspace and put all the operators in trouble. this must not happen to european industry. when the system only covers co2 emissions, the release of other pollutants into the atmosphere is free. there are many questions that the directive does not answer. let me list some of them. the emission allowances are traded on the stock exchange. as an economic instrument, should an emission allowance be treated as a share or as an option? how do you tax the sale or the non-sale? how are allowances recorded in company balance sheets? how are they treated in the personal income and wealth tax system? it is necessary to ask whether the eu has the competence to decide on all these issues in the same uniform way for all. emissions trading is done on exchanges, and there is always speculation involved in the exchange. there is a danger that the price of the emission allowance will be set by speculators whose activities are not linked to industry or other emission production. in that case, the industry of the member states may suffer from this mechanism proposed by the united states, in which the us industry is not involved and in which profits and losses are decisively dependent on the administrative first allocation of emission allowances. the emissions trading directive is a raw fruit that should have been ripened longer. there are many members of our group who do not believe in the ets. however, many members will vote in favour of the compromise amendments because they are better than parliament's report.
(fi) mr president, i would like to thank from the bottom of my heart all those who have been involved in the construction of this compromise on which we are voting tomorrow. it has been said here on several occasions that after the first reading it was hard to believe that we would get to this point, that we would have an emissions trading directive which is so sensible and rational in its content that it can be accepted from different points of view. we must remember that this is only one of many ways in which we are working to reduce greenhouse gases. if this method is not available, some other method should be used and it has been considered and shown to be a cost-effective system and in this sense it is good that it is introduced. but i would like to emphasize that these last-minute discussions and negotiations have resulted in the removal of the excessive amounts that seemed to be involved, such as the cap on national emission allowances. the fact that the auction is voluntary is also a very good thing. this way, the companies involved are not burdened. all in all, congratulations to the rapporteur and to all those involved. we still have a long way to go in achieving the kyoto targets, but i believe and hope that through these compromises that have brought about this report and this directive, we will be one step further.
(fi) mr president, it is difficult to imagine any other report that would have such an impact on european conditions and that policy-makers know so little about. europe is now entering uncharted territory. even theoretical research on the effects of emissions trading is only a name. when we received the commission's proposal a few years ago, it became clear that there were huge gaps in the proposal on which the european economy, competition and environmental strategy were to be built. there is no assessment of the effects of enlargement, no guidelines on the accounting status of emission allowances in companies, no information on vat, not even a strategy against serious market disturbances and speculative attacks, no precise information on member states' emissions, let alone those of companies, no presentation of the rights of appeal. it is unfortunate that we have received such an incomplete presentation of such a vital matter. we've done a lot of work on this, but whether we can pull it off remains to be seen. the trilogue solved the problem of the so-called trendline cap in a formulation proposed by the commission which allows the member state to approach the kyoto target along its own path. this will also encourage member states to adopt a more responsible transport policy in the light of the kyoto protocol, while providing a margin of manoeuvre. that's our real problem, you know? the trilogue solution on project mechanisms must also be supported. it is not worth setting stricter criteria than those agreed in marrakesh. instead, there is a need to establish eu rules on how to convert the emission credits from these project mechanisms into tradable allowances without compromising the climate change imperative. the emission allowances from the project mechanisms will also have an interesting impact on development cooperation. i believe that the interest of member states in development cooperation will increase strongly, because they see in projects opportunities to earn emission credits. a particular problem in the context of emissions trading was combined heat and power (chp) and process emissions. if the seasonal cycle related to the nature of chp is not taken into account, the emission reductions will also not be achieved. the trilogy now acknowledges and recognises the special nature of chp. member states may take into account the potential for reducing process emissions, which in practice means that the best european steel mills can obtain full allowances and do not have to bear extra costs in the highly competitive world steel market. that will reduce the risk of carbon leakage and increase the real opportunity to combat climate change.
(fi) mr president, the report on the negotiating procedure for the 2004 budget gives a good indication of parliament's priorities. i would like to thank my own group member and rapporteur-general, mr jan mulder, for a very good report. the next year's budget is legally difficult because for the first four months the eu is a community of 15 member states, but will be enlarged to 25 member states from the beginning of may. since each member state must be able to participate in the decision-making process concerning it, the budget of the enlarged union can only be decided after enlargement. but the principle of the budget's universality and annuality requires that it be drawn up immediately for the whole year. the solution sought, therefore, whereby the budget is actually dealt with in december but the new member states' shares are not decided until the supplementary budget for next may, is the appropriate procedure. the budget is also now clearly presented on an operational basis. this clarifies the operational expenditure, administrative expenditure and implementation responsibilities of each policy area separately. the reformation is excellent. it increases the information value of the budget and facilitates its monitoring. however, this system must be developed, inter alia, by fully incorporating administrative expenditure into the budget of each policy area, as the report points out. the main weakness of the preliminary draft budget is the scarcity of payment appropriations. the payments are only 0.99% of the member states' gross national income, the lowest level in 17 years. at the same time, the number of outstanding commitments has increased dramatically, reaching eur 126 billion. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. this will require improving and simplifying governance at all levels. i wish my friend mr mulder every success in his future work.
(fi) mr president, the rapporteur for this year's budget, mr göran färm, has made a good report on the implementation of the budget and i would like to thank him for it. the report rightly touches on two key points, namely non-payment of commitments and the relaxation of commitments, the so-called n+2 rule. as i have already mentioned, the amount of commitments outstanding in april was eur 126 billion, an increase of more than eur 15 billion in one year. in the structural funds in particular, these rals amounted to eur 94 billion, i.e. almost three years' appropriations. this is bad. at the beginning of the current programming period, the so-called n+2 rule was adopted, which states that if no payment is made for two years, the commitment is void. the commission seems to interpret the rule in such a way that advance payments which are not based on any invoices submitted are considered as payments. this allows the project to be kept alive year after year with small pre-payments, even before the project has even started. the commission shall strengthen the monitoring of the n+2 rule and give it its original substance.
(fi) mr president, many of my colleagues have raised the idea of incorporating environmental objectives into public procurement criteria. however, this is entirely in line with the idea, also contained in the treaty, that environmental policy is integrated into all eu policies. parliament has done a good job of incorporating sustainable development into production legislation. however, this supply-side effect needs to be supported by the demand side as well and can be influenced by public procurement where the justification for including an environmental criterion in the call for tenders can be put forward. the so-called helsinki case, which the court of justice has decided on, highlights an important point. when the subscriber is a public body, it represents the public. in this case, not only must the public's economic interests be protected, but also, for example, the public's health must be protected. this is precisely what the helsinki case was about. it goes without saying that public health is also a long-term economic benefit whereby the public body saves at least as much as it could have saved by choosing the lowest bidder.
(fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the delegation i am leading is pleased to have been able to see the situation on the ground. this is the first time this has happened. we met with the russian, ingush and chechen leadership and administration, we met with people in camps as well as in grozny, chechens in the diaspora in moscow and, of course, humanitarian organizations, both national and international. in addition to human rights, we wanted to study social, economic, educational and health issues, the status of refugees and the possibilities of a normal life in general. first, i would like to highlight the strategic shift in russia. it is no longer seeking a military solution, but a political one. this is a positive approach, one which the european parliament has long called for. secondly, it is clear that all parties are tired of war and want peace. now i don't mean the criminal elements who have made war a source of their own enrichment. thirdly, it seems that there is now a 'window of opportunity' of about a year until the elections in the russian federation and chechnya are over. it is feared that after the elections, the situation may return to normal. the political process that has been initiated for this reason now deserves strong support. the threat is also the 'chechenization' of the conflict, the increasingly violent turn towards civil war. for peace to be achieved, it is imperative that russia prosecute war criminals and withdraw its military. we must protect human rights. the chechen people must also put an end to the armed conflict and terrorist attacks, and there are indications from several sources that the russian military's combat operations in the region have already decreased in the last half of the year. at the same time, however, there has been an increase in violence by armed groups, which is very worrying. the social, cultural and economic reconstruction of the region must be pursued with determination. as a potential chechen presidential candidate once told me, money makes peace. the russian government has built a kind of political-economic package to normalize the situation. it was necessary to make some corrections and additions, but the choice of direction is important. in this context, the european union should also step up its activities in the region. the european union is already the largest external donor. the commission has recently allocated eur 16 million for humanitarian aid, which is right. our delegation's demand is that aid organizations be able to get into the area quickly, unhindered and safely. without outside help, it will take even longer to rectify the situation. it is also essential that the osce office in znamenskoye can be brought into full operation without delay. in a few months, elections are planned and the campaign will begin. it is very important to ensure that the campaign is transparent and democratic. this is gonna take a long-term presence. if campaigns are not democratic, elections can hardly be. finally, the idea of a peace conference, which could involve all the parties, as well as the european union, the council of europe and the osce, was also put forward. i didn't give a list of culprits in my speech because now is the time to seek peace.
(fi) mr president, the eldr group supports the joint statement by the political groups on chechnya. we therefore support the russian government's efforts to stabilise the situation in the region on the basis of the recent referendum. we also stress the need to respect human rights in chechnya. if russia's current policy is not soon to produce the desired result, i think it would be wise for russia to consider whether there is an alternative. the situation in chechnya is extremely difficult to stabilise, with powerful groups seeking to separate it from russia. on the other hand, russia is firmly committed to its territorial integrity, which has also received clear support from the international community. russia has undoubtedly the resources to control chechnya militarily, but it will have to pay a very heavy price in terms of human lives, economic losses and political damage. unless the armed resistance is quelled, the russians will be forced to ask themselves whether the military rule of war-torn chechnya is worth paying such a heavy price. they are forced to consider whether there is an alternative to their current policy in chechnya. the solution reached in kosovo could perhaps provide a model in principle. in this case, chechnya would remain an unquestioned part of the russian federation, but its security would be the responsibility of international peacekeeping forces and local police forces. such a solution would certainly be difficult for russia to accept, but it is not easy to continue with the present situation. the solution is in the hands of the russians themselves. outsiders cannot advise or guide them. russia must decide for itself what policy it wishes to pursue in chechnya. at least for the time being, russia is continuing with its present policy and, as i said at the beginning, the liberal group supports the joint resolution of the political groups on this basis.
mr president, commissioner, president of the council! i think there is a lot of truth in what mr fava and mr staes said about the continuing violence in chechnya. the reports they have given about the lack of reconstruction and the obstacles to the work of humanitarian organizations are appalling. the information we have received that 30,000 russian soldiers took part in the referendum is laughable. chechnya is an international issue. i think it is an outdated idea, which does not correspond to the general policy of the eu, to say that this is an internal matter for russia to decide. we must call for stronger action and support and for the reopening of the osce office. we need a functioning election surveillance system. at the same time, we must also contribute to the reconstruction of the eu.
(fi) mr president, mr lamy, the doha round of negotiations within the wto was already called at the doha meeting a development round which would result in an increase in the ability of developing countries in particular to benefit from the benefits of globalisation. this should be the objective in cancun in september. in this connection, it is important to ensure technical and economic assistance to developing countries to help them develop their administrative, industrial, commercial and export capacities. at the same time, however, the importance of good governance, neighbourly and internal reconciliation and the fight against corruption must also be stressed for these countries as they strive to keep pace with the developed countries. the alarming spread of aids, but not only aids, but also of many other communicable diseases, requires that, before the cancun meeting, dead ends be opened in terms of access to affordable medicines everywhere. the question is difficult politically and industrially, but it must be resolved. one of the great powers with resources and potential trade, russia, is still outside the wto. the cancún meeting does not and cannot include a review of russia's domestic legislation and orderly administration and the acceleration of russia's wto accession negotiations. however, it is in the eu's vital interests in particular that russia should be admitted to the wto as soon as possible. the current situation is not only a disadvantage for russia, but also a serious threat to eu-russia economic interaction in terms of investment and trade. like the developing countries - or should i say like the other developing countries - russia should also be given support in developing its administration, customs systems, taxation and fees, etc. to the reliable level required by wto membership. the commission will have to work hard on this in the future. commissioner lamy is used to productive and hard work, but this line of work also brings economic benefits to the eu.
i suggest. mr president, commissioner lamy, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for the italian presidency, but also a great responsibility, to speak before the european parliament on the subject of the international criminal court. it is certainly an honour because italy, from the very beginning, has supported the criminal court more than many other countries and is the country which gave its name to the rome statute. but at the same time it is our responsibility to continue to support, with the same determination as our predecessors, the efforts of the international community to make viable an international jurisdiction that will put an end to impunity for the perpetrators of the most abhorrent crimes. the court is proving a great success. to date, 90 states have become parties to the rome statute. the court held its inaugural session this year with the election of its president, judges, prosecutor and registrar. it is now a fully functional reality in international relations and the european union can be proud to have made a decisive contribution to this development. the italian presidency has an important legacy to defend and intends to defend it. a few days ago, on 16 june, the council reaffirmed its commitment to the court in a common position which has the political significance of reaffirming the european union's full support for this institution. the action plan of may 2002 will be updated on the basis of the common position. action in favour of the court will remain an essential component of the union's foreign policy action. it is well known that in this action the european union will have to face delicate and complex issues, but this will certainly not diminish our commitment. our initiative will go in several directions: first, italy will represent the european union at the second assembly of states parties in september. we are preparing for this meeting with great diligence and will spare no effort to resolve all the outstanding questions relating to the institution and its functioning. secondly, in order to ensure the effective functioning of the court and to guarantee its independence, the european union will continue to encourage states to transfer swiftly and in full their contributions, as determined in accordance with decisions taken by the assembly, and to accede to the agreement on the immunities and privileges of the court. thirdly, the european union will continue to call on those states which have not yet done so to become party to the statute, because we believe that the widest possible accession is desirable and necessary. in accordance with the common position, a wide-ranging awareness-raising campaign has already been launched in this respect, in particular in the context of political dialogue meetings with third states. fourthly, the european union will continue to defend the integrity of the rome statute, and this also applies to our relations with our friends in the united states of america. as you can imagine, this is a frequent topic on the agenda of the euro-atlantic dialogue and was raised, just last week, at the eu-us summit in washington. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. we share the same core values as the united states of america and attach the same importance - a great importance - to the objective of ending impunity for the most serious crimes and identifying personal responsibility in their commission. but objectively - we must admit - there are different sensitivities in the assessment of the court's role. the united states, in its imposing global projection, is concerned about the possibility of politically motivated charges against its citizens. the european union considers that the statute of the court of justice provides sufficient guarantees of impartiality and authority, such as the high quality of the judges and the principle of complementarity of the court's work, to alleviate, i would say to dispel, concerns about a possible instrumentalization of the court's activities. my predecessors have informed this parliament of the developments in this ongoing debate between the european union and the united states of america and of the initiatives being developed by both sides. i do not repeat what is known to everyone, but i would like to indicate to you how the italian side intends to proceed during the presidency. the united states fears, among other things, that the court may pose a threat, even indirect, to the conduct and implementation of un peacekeeping operations. the european union considers the court to be an important safeguard to protect peacekeepers as well and in this context the un security council has for two consecutive years considered the us proposals to exclude peacekeepers from the court's jurisdiction. in both years, the european union was able to express its firm support for the court at the security council meetings open to non-member states. this year, the union also publicly expressed its support for the convening of the security council meeting on 12 june. on that occasion, all members of the security council were asked to commit themselves to finding a solution which would preserve the integrity of the rome statute and the smooth conduct of peace operations: the commission has already made a number of proposals. the united states, as is well known, is pursuing the conclusion of a network of bilateral agreements to exempt its own citizens from the court's jurisdiction. yesterday we heard the news that the united states had suspended military assistance to certain countries, including five countries which are about to join the european union, which have declared themselves not to be party to such agreements. the union regrets this initiative. we reserve the right, of course, to go into it further in view of further contacts with washington. i would remind you that last september the council adopted conclusions setting out some guiding principles to be respected in the conclusion of exemption agreements in order to preserve the integrity of the rome statute. the conclusions and guiding principles were addressed primarily to the member states and the candidate countries, but they are clearly relevant to all states party to the rome statute. these documents have been circulated to a large number of third states in order to make known the position of principle which the european union has already adopted on the matter. the european union is firmly convinced that the international criminal court will make the world safer, or rather, will contribute to making the world safer, fairer and more peaceful. we believe that the mere concrete institution of the court will have a deterrent value against the commission of the most serious crimes. by ending impunity, the court will strengthen the rule of law and make a vital contribution to peace. in conclusion, the court will very soon prove to be a truly independent and effective institution. it will do so by working concretely, and those who are suspicious of it will be able to see - i repeat, in the concrete work of the court - that the rome statute guarantees the highest standards of justice and does not lend itself - or at least we must work because it never lends itself - to political exploitation. this will obviously be one of the commitments in the frank and friendly dialogue that the presidency will have with the united states of america.
commission. - mr moreno campo, recently appointed prosecutor of the international criminal court, said at his swearing-in ceremony: 'a fully independent and impartial international criminal court is a source of hope, but it also raises fears and misunderstandings.' this court is indeed the hope of a new era for international justice, it provides an effective tool to combat impunity and is therefore a deterrent - as the president of the council has just said - for those who would be tempted to commit serious criminal acts which this court has jurisdiction to try. but it also raises fears and misunderstandings, if we refer to the position of the united states. it is this fear of political persecution of american personnel that has led to efforts around the world to secure bilateral immunity agreements for american citizens and to the renewal of security council resolution 1422. to secure these agreements, the united states did not hesitate to threaten to refuse military aid to countries which did not sign them. what does this position mean? the united states, which is not a signatory to the rome statute, considers itself free to conclude immunity agreements, particularly because of the considerable number of american soldiers deployed around the world. whatever the value of this argument, it is certain that the important contribution of the united states to peacekeeping operations cannot be overlooked. it is also clear that the countries which have acceded to the rome statute cannot use a back door to evade their obligations to the international criminal court. the guiding principles adopted by the union in september 2002, to which the presidency of the council referred, are very clear on this point: we do not consider these agreements to be necessary, but we accept them provided they meet certain well-defined criteria. the agreements which the united states is seeking to conclude do not meet our conditions and are clearly intended to undermine the rome statute in that they do not contain any firm provisions to avoid impunity and extend impunity beyond the scope of us nationals present in a territory for certain military or strictly administrative reasons. how, then, do we make our position known? we did so, in particular, on the occasion of the common position of 16 june last, which states unequivocally that the guiding principles are not to be reduced to a kind of internal kitchen, but that they must be applied to justify the protection of the integrity of the rome statute in our relations with third countries. this position is the result of a number of approaches and dialogues. my colleagues patten and verheugen have joined forces with the greek presidency in sending joint letters to the foreign ministers of the acceding countries, the foreign ministers of the candidate countries and the foreign ministers of the balkan countries. they stressed the need to take account of the union's position. we have instructed our heads of delegation in third countries to stress the importance of this issue. in countries which have already signed an immunity agreement, our heads of delegation were asked to look more closely at the likelihood of ratification of these agreements. these diplomatic efforts build on the significant support we have given to ngos campaigning for an effective international criminal court through the european initiative for democracy and human rights. the european council in thessaloniki recently confirmed the union's full support for the international criminal court. what about the results? after recalling our principles and our action, let us be lucid. the results are rather mixed. even if i leave aside the agreement hastily signed by romania in august 2002, and even if the acceding and candidate countries have resisted us pressure to align themselves with the union's position of 16 june, it is clear that the situation in the balkans remains unclear: albania, bosnia and herzegovina and, most recently, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia have signed such agreements, none of which meet the conditions set out in the union's guiding principles. we have not hidden our disappointment and have communicated it to these countries. as for the renewal of security council resolution 1422, there is no doubt in our mind that the legality of this measure is, at best, questionable. we have allowed for an open debate in the security council where concerns about the legality of this proposal have been expressed. in a remarkable speech, the un secretary-general, kofi annan, not only expressed doubts about the advisability of basing this security council resolution on article 16 of the rome statute, but also questioned its necessity. the un peacekeepers remain under the jurisdiction of the state of which they are nationals and would be repatriated immediately if they had committed a serious crime. provided that the state of origin deals with the case properly, the complementary jurisdiction of the criminal court is not a possibility. finally, on behalf of the union, the greek presidency made it clear that there was no question of accepting an automatic renewal of this resolution in the years to come, thus preventing this process - since it is a process - from continuing unchallenged. finally, i would mention the substantial aid - 13 million euros, that is not a small amount - provided by the union since 1995 to the international criminal court through the european initiative for democracy and human rights, the awareness-raising campaigns we have carried out with parliamentarians, civil servants, civil society, judicial officials and even military personnel, for example, in the newly independent states. in addition, we are working on training defence lawyers to make this court a concrete and immediate reality. we are also considering how our support will take shape in the coming years, as we listen to the ngos and several meps who will speak at a seminar the commission will organise on 14 july to hear various views on this issue. i feel that i have defended and presented a line which is in full harmony with what the presidency of the council has just said. no one will be surprised. the international criminal court is certainly challenging the transatlantic relationship. as this distinguished team of 18 judges and prosecutors begins its work, we europeans are convinced that the international criminal court will justify our support and confidence. in doing so, it will also help to allay the fears that remain here and there in the minds of our belgian friends, the americans.
(fi) mr president, yesterday the international criminal court, which celebrated its one-year anniversary, received a new poisoned gift from its evil host, as the united states began to implement its threat to impose sanctions on those states which have not yielded to its pressure to conclude bilateral immunity agreements. in the struggle between sovereignty and justice over the new world order, the united states has thus increasingly chosen to maximize its own sovereignty at the expense of the international legal order. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. it means both supporting the international criminal court by all means and closing the large gaps in the judicial system, including by increasing the capacity of eu member states' legislation to deal with international crimes. everyone must be equal before the law. to retreat here would be to retreat into barbarism.
(fi) mr president, the legislative package under discussion to create a single european airspace is very challenging. i would like to thank the rapporteurs at this stage for their good cooperation in taking this matter forward. the problem with europe's airspace is congestion. central europe is a huge air traffic. the smooth operation of this system requires cooperation between member states, and this has already been achieved. in a sparsely populated member state such as finland, this type of problem is not so much a problem. in particular, domestic air traffic can be handled with considerable flexibility on its own. the report's objectives are ambitious. there are a number of far-reaching proposals in the report. one of these concerns the division of airspace. the allocation of airspace to sectors could be carried out, where appropriate, by qualified majority. there are doubts as to whether this is necessary or sufficient for the member states to cooperate in order to achieve the objectives. it may well be that closer integration in the heart of the eu is necessary, but in the periphery, given the specific circumstances, it is unlikely to be necessary. there's also the problem of payments. if air traffic control services were billed on an average basis, it might well be that in some areas there would be a marked increase in charges. the more sensitive problem is the integration of military aviation and air defence into the european system. traditionally, military and defence matters are not covered by the co-decision procedure between the council and parliament in the eu, and there is no justification for this now. therefore, caution and respect for accepted principles should be exercised here too. but even in the face of these difficulties, both reports are very valuable and well-aimed.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the rapporteur, mr bradbourne, on behalf of my group, for the determination and the quality of the report he has produced. the reduction of congestion and the need to improve the functioning of the freight transport system, especially from the environmental point of view, are essential in the face of the increase in transport volumes. eu enlargement also brings new challenges in terms of transport routes. our group supports the marco polo programme and welcomes the council's common position. the eu can add value by supporting innovative and new technology projects. the aim must be to move from the most polluting modes of transport to others that are more environmentally friendly. however, no mode of transport should be excluded from the programme. this includes multi-modal transport, which may include road transport. i think it is important that alongside new activities there is the possibility of supporting the improvement of existing activities. in these cases, improvement can often be achieved with a more efficient cost-benefit ratio than by starting a completely new project. by concentrating only on new projects, the risk of distortions of competition in relation to legacy activities is obvious. the common position has approved the halving of the minimum thresholds for all actions. it also allows for the implementation of smaller joint innovative projects, for example by smes. the budget for the programme is quite modest and the objective is very ambitious. however, i think it is important that the regulation is adopted now and that the first projects are launched in the autumn. in the longer term, it is desirable that marco polo proves to be a viable option and receives additional funding, and that the possibility of increasing funding for important projects complementing the transeuropean transport network is explored.
(fi) mr president, at the end of last year the delegation of the parliament's conciliation committee agreed on the final content of the second pillar of the aarhus convention, the directive on public participation in environmental decision-making. i was the rapporteur for the report. the acceptance of the conciliation result was essentially due to the commission's commitment to present a proposal on the third pillar of the aarhus agreement during the first quarter of 2003, i.e. by the end of march 2003. in accordance with the decision taken in the conciliation committee, the commission attached to the directive a declaration confirming this commitment, which was published in the official journal of the european communities. now that commission commitment is still not fulfilled. the commission has still not adopted the proposal for a directive on the right of appeal and the right of bringing proceedings in environmental matters, even though the last quarter of the year is already beginning, which means that the proposal is six months late. the failure to honour the commission's commitment seriously undermines parliament's confidence and cannot be defended or accepted. i therefore ask you, mr president, to draw up without delay a letter to the president of the commission in which parliament recalls its commitment, reprimands the commission for not having kept to its commitment or even for not having given parliament an explanation for the delay, and asks the commission to adopt the missing proposals for the aarhus agreement and to submit them to parliament in september.
mr president, i am happy to express my satisfaction with mr radwan's report concerning the forthcoming basel ii accord. developing a new framework for capital adequacy will maximise the effectiveness of the capital rules in ensuring overall financial stability, maintaining confidence in financial institutions and protecting consumers' and depositors' interests. this would benefit not only the banking industry but the whole eu economy. however, structured dialogue between supervisors, regulators and bank and investment firm representatives is crucial for creating a viable capital framework. a central element – that of democratic control – has been lacking. therefore, mr radwan's objective to involve the european parliament in the capital adequacy debate and to add democratising elements to the decision-making process is most welcome. the principle of taking into account corporate risks in loan pricing is a sound one. risks should be treated the same, regardless of the legal nature and level of complicity of the institution in question. nevertheless, concerns relating to sme lending, highlighted in the report and by many colleagues, are well-based. for example, in finland only the larger banks and a dozen companies have external ratings. therefore the exclusive re-use of external ratings is not a viable solution for us in the short term. instead internal ratings based on some agreed key ratio criteria could be developed in order to avoid unreasonable costs for smes. i am worried about a large number of national options. i fear that there might be divergences in the interpretation and application of the new framework by national supervisors. these national discrepancies could give rise to competitive inequalities in the single market. i should also like to mention mutual recognition with the us. eu banks and investment firms operating in non-eu countries should not be penalised by the potential burden arising from divergent requirements between their home and host supervisory authorities. this is a question of the utmost importance for us, especially in the us delegation of the european parliament, where we have debated these financial security rules.
(fi) mr president, i too would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs, mr mastorakis and mr pomés ruiz, on the successful drawing up of their reports. economic and social disparities between member states have decreased, but inequalities within member states have persisted and even increased. the report reiterates parliament's position on the continuation of the community's wide-ranging cohesion policy. after enlargement, a large part of regional and structural policy support goes to the new member states. it is necessary. but we must not set up a conflict between the regions in difficulty in the present union and the poor regions in the new member states. with our combined efforts, we can do both. our group supports the main lines of the reports. i shall not repeat the content of the reports, but i would like to make a few points. the reports call for coordination between regional and other policies. regional aspects must be better taken into account in economic, agricultural, transport and competition policies, among others. the need for reform of regional policy is becoming more acute as the union enlarges. our group supports and accelerates the commission's efforts to simplify and clarify regional policy. at the same time, the quality of programmes and the certainty of their results must be improved, and the role of the regions must be strengthened alongside that of the member states and the commission. this requires determined work on the part of both the commission and the member states. the new programming period can no longer afford the administrative burdens, delays and apparent delays that often plague current regional and structural policies. it is important that the specific characteristics of areas suffering from persistent geographical handicaps are recognised and identified and that solutions are sought. similar problems exist in island, mountain and sparsely populated areas. we have many people in our group who have been active in solving the problems of the islands and mountain regions. i know the sparsely populated areas of the north best. the development of the northernmost region of the union is overshadowed by long distances, sparse population, a cold climate and an ageing population due to extreme migration. but there are many great opportunities in the same area. i am grateful to mr pomés ruiz for proposing that the less-favoured regions of the north be included in the treaty establishing the union. the report by mr pomés ruiz has increased cohesion. we understand each other better now. the problems of the various less-favoured regions can be solved by good cooperation as part of the union's cohesion policy.
(fi) mr president, the european union's regional and structural policy must be based on genuine solidarity between the different regions of the eu. the aim should be to achieve economic integration as well as to understand the differences arising from regional differences. in future proposals we must take full account of the needs of the new member states, ensuring that aid is used effectively to bring about structural reforms and that it has a lasting impact on the lives of citizens. while we take full account of the new member states, the regions in need of special support in the present member states must also be included in the new plans. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pomés ruiz, for the very serious way in which he has put forward the idea that areas with persistent structural handicaps will continue to be eligible for special aid in the future. such permanent disadvantages include, for example, remoteness and geographical isolation. these areas are also sparsely populated and have difficult climatic conditions. it would be necessary to consider these permanent handicaps as a factor of competitiveness similar to that envisaged for island regions. it is therefore not important which instrument will be used to provide aid to the remote, sparsely populated northern regions, as long as these needs are adequately addressed in a spirit of solidarity and equality. i trust that the commission will, when it prepares a new proposal for structural and regional policy after 2007, take account in a fair way of the sparsely populated areas in the north and the distant regions.
the president, the commissioner! the report we are about to adopt contains a real fundamental change in regional policy. regions with persistent handicaps must be given new consideration in support policy. i think this fundamental reassessment is important. some disabilities are permanent. we know about such disadvantages in finland with glass buildings, and it was also stated in the important treaty of accession for finland, sweden and austria. however, it may also be mountain regions or island and archipelago conditions. i would like to see islands and archipelagos treated in a special way. when finland joined the eu, we found it difficult to maintain important support schemes. for example, certain general transport aids were examined very, very critically by the commission. we are not asking for large amounts of aid for sparsely populated areas, for the archipelago and for mountainous areas, but they can be crucial to the maintenance of the service. an important part of the policy may also be to give countries the possibility of certain minor public aids and to require undertakings maintaining a service of general interest to ensure that this service functions. we also need rules in the agricultural policy to enable small-scale farming in the archipelago to survive. it's extremely important to the archipelago as part of our world heritage, and we're trying to manage it as well as possible. the european convention proposes similar amendments, for which we are very grateful. finally, i would like to say that the concept of territorial cohesion was actually founded by the cpmr under its then president, stig östdahl. i am very pleased that parliament can contribute today to a new and important way of thinking which will help to make it possible to live and work in all parts of the union.
(fi) mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteurs, mr mastorakis and mr pomés ruiz, on their excellent reports. cohesion policy is a fundamental condition for the existence and legitimacy of the eu as a whole. a mechanism is needed to boost prosperity in less favoured areas too. cohesion policy is based on the treaty on european union. both the current treaty and the new one being drafted by the preparatory commission present regional and social cohesion as a principle that permeates all policy areas. when new member states join the european union, they all need structural development. the risk is that funding for the old member states' regional and structural policies will be reduced. in this case, the economically weaker regions would have to pay more for enlargement than the economically stronger regions, which would benefit the most. therefore, funding for former assisted areas must not be reduced. in finland and sweden in particular, there are rare outlying areas, the current objective 1 regions, for which access to the market is difficult. these regions should therefore be considered as ultraperipheral regions, like the canary islands, madeira and the azores. the current inefficient and bureaucratic management of the structural funds is a particular problem. this is reflected in the under-utilisation of resources, which is catastrophically low. the budgeted money was not used in 2000 at eur 6.7 billion, the following year at eur 8.7 billion and in 2002 at eur 6.2 billion. the unpaid commitments currently amount to over eur 90 billion, or almost three years' budget. this is putting the credibility of the entire political establishment at risk. the administration needs to be simplified and reformed. the so-called n+2 rule, which was created to improve administrative efficiency, does not work because the commission accepts the payment of recurring advances even before the project has even started. that is why this regulation needs to be revised.
mr president, i am glad that mr pomés ruiz has noted in his report the special consideration and support needed for northern finland and sweden, where the population density is extremely low and the climate is harsh, and which are a long way from european markets. currently these areas have objective 1 status. no other parts of europe are as sparsely populated: they have an average of 4.4 inhabitants per square kilometre. eu regional policy has contributed to the development effort in these areas by improving competitiveness and encouraging entrepreneurship. the remoteness of peripheral areas causes high costs for marketing, trade, and transportation of goods and persons. these factors should be taken into account when determining sufficient support levels. as a result of the union's regional level of activities, northern finland and sweden have developed innovative solutions in the fields of elearning and ehealth, for example. northern finland can also act as an eu gateway to north-west russia, with access to vast national resources and hence huge potential. focusing cohesion policy on competitiveness by fostering economic development is welcome. however, it should not be forgotten that geographical handicaps often restrain development of the economy, production and hence employment. northern parts of finland and sweden are in unquestionable need of eu regional support and the structural disadvantages of extremely sparsely populated areas should be recognised independently of gdp. in addition to the sparsely populated areas, many other areas suffer from exceptionally high unemployment rates and these should also benefit from common initiatives. if they are not eligible under other structural funds they should benefit from the renewed objective 2 or other similar community initiatives. i am very happy to note that mr barnier has spoken about an a la carte model for the renewed objective 2. this is something which should be emphasised more in future. it is also very much welcomed by the parliament.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. my group will support his work in every way. it is true that the matter is important: half the store is, so to speak, dependent on water. china is indeed our third largest trading partner outside the european union and its importance is growing rapidly and strongly, and there has been no such agreement with china so far. it applies to maritime freight transport, logistics and so on. it is very important that this principle of non-discrimination, which was also discussed by the previous speaker, like the rapporteur, now be supported by an agreement which also contains a measure against infringement. this principle of non-discrimination is very necessary for us. another important point is that the agreement allows shipping companies to operate their own businesses: to set up their own companies, subsidiaries and representative offices. it's also a very important territorial claim. if a european shipping company considers that it has been discriminated against, it can turn to the authorities not only of its own country but also of the european union. of course, it is clear that the power is quite different. this deal is a weight on our station and our claims. maritime transport needs general regulation because it has become a target for cheap labour, cheap, even criminal activity. that is why we need strict regulation in the maritime sector. i would ask the commissioner how he intends to deal with the airline industry when there are incidents like this or other accidents like the prestige.
(fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our group thanks the rapporteur for this report and supports it. it is important to pay attention to education. the number of crews flying the flag of a member state of the european union from third countries is increasing. this proposal makes it easier to recruit crew from third countries and therefore we must be very careful, because it can hinder the recruitment of trained staff from the european union. it is now necessary to ensure that these tasks are not carried out by untrained personnel and that the crew is adequately trained. i therefore support amendment no 1 and amendment no 4, in particular the fact that the certificates issued must be such that they cannot be forged. imagine a ship with a crew on forged papers who may not even be able to read the forged papers! then, amendment no 6: yes, the certificates must be multilingual, because this again makes it easier for the authorities to monitor them and to do their job. amendment no 7: action must be taken against those states which do not do enough to prevent the forgery of these documents, certificates. that's a violation of this treaty from the government's point of view. indeed, it has been found that some states do not intervene at all or do not intervene sufficiently in these certificate errors. that's why this is so important. think of the gulf of finland, with 20 meters of ice, with an untrained, unskilled crew, without russian icebreaker assistance, on a one-masted ship, in winter shorts, what else is there but hazardous situations? i hope the commission will take a strong stance on this.
(fi) mr president, i am satisfied with that answer. the commission's representative, richard wright, has certainly been deliberately misinterpreted here. however, it now appears that the issue will be raised at the next eu-russia summit in november. how will the matter be dealt with in the council before this eu-russia summit and what procedure will be followed in the council for such strategic decisions? so how will the commission and the council proceed on this matter before november?
commission. the commission's directorate-general for development, and i myself, are aware of the clean development mechanism and the opportunities it offers. for developing countries, the cdm should be a good vehicle for the transfer of clean and modern technologies, which will contribute to their development efforts. however, the cdm is not a substitute for funding in the framework of development cooperation. firstly, the cdm is primarily a private sector or business sector instrument and public funding would be used only for enabling and capacity-building purposes or similar catalytic actions. secondly, even though the certified emission reductions that will be generated by a cdm project will have an additional value, that value may not be 'reportable' as official development assistance according to the reporting rules of the development assistance committee of the oecd. the commission is supportive of the opportunities that cdm may bring in terms of technology transfer, but is aware that not all developing countries will be equally interesting to the business sector in terms of investments. the commission has proposed an eu strategy and action plan for climate change in the context of development cooperation, in which support would be given to partner countries for cdm project preparation activities, including capacity-building. the communication on climate change in the context of development cooperation also explores the possibility of funding cdm projects in the category of least-developed countries. as regards guiding member states towards a common approach on cdm, we hope that the discussions in council on the commission’s communication will lead to agreement on an eu action plan, including actions related to cdm activities. i invite the european parliament also to give its opinion on the communication. assistance for the cdm activities included in the action plan may be funded from geographical budget lines on request from countries, and from the research budget. assistance can also be provided from the budget line 'environment in developing countries and tropical forests', for which cdm activities will be one of the priorities.
(fi) mr president, i thank the honourable member for his reply. i would like to say that there is a certain market and opportunity for development cooperation organizations. i think that's a very good thing, because they can use their expertise in this area. i would therefore ask whether the commission intends to promote this possibility and this idea to development cooperation organisations, for example by training them to prepare themselves to implement cdm projects. i would also like to ask what opportunities you see for bringing together businesses and organisations in such a way that cooperation is constructive and mutually beneficial.
(fi) mr president, while i join those who congratulate mr van den bos on his excellent report, and especially on what he said in his opening speech, i must say that we naturally have some differences of emphasis. we, for our part, want to emphasize the rights of prisoners of conscience and the right to a healthy environment. torture, together with the death penalty, is the most fundamental violation of human rights. in the world of counterterrorism, we have seen, worryingly, the absolute prohibition of torture become relative and, as it were, softened from the edges. it is not enough that we work on prevention and in particular on the widest possible adoption of the optional protocol to the convention against torture, but we must also really support the rehabilitation of victims. we are now getting a promise from it, but it will also require additional resources. it is a matter of investing in it, and that means making the right budgetary decisions. the report also contains a number of recommendations on the role of the eu in the fight against terrorism. it is not because the rapporteur has failed, but because year after year we have emphasized very similar needs for change. in a world where security concepts based on arms and cooperation are in conflict and where universal human rights and the sovereignty of states are in a state of tension - this is the question of the fate of the un - the eu has the opportunity to place human rights at the heart of its foreign policy. institutional changes are not enough, even if we get our own foreign minister and the parliament's committees are reorganised. it can only work if we really want to put in consistent work and be wholehearted in it.
(fi) mr president, i would like to thank the representative of the council for his reply and i am very pleased that the evote initiative will continue in some way during the italian presidency. one element of this initiative was the direct visibility of citizens' online voices at the summits. today, in this parliament, an initiative has been launched by my colleague, jo leinen, to ensure that the intergovernmental conference is also open and that citizens can send a message to our representatives there. for example, certain sessions of the igc could be held openly via the internet, and citizens could comment on things via the internet while our heads of state are in session. how do you feel about such a thought? is this possible, and can you take it forward?
(fi) mr president, over the last ten years, access to clean drinking water has been the subject of several international conferences. we know that many things have failed, not least the commitment to provide clean drinking water for all by the year 2000. in ten years, the number of people without clean water increased by only half a billion, from about 1.7 billion today. one in four people in the world drink contaminated water. the situation forces decision-makers to seriously examine whether the means used were at all correct. universal, equitable and non-discriminatory access to clean water is a fundamental human right. water scarcity is a clear cause of the poverty cycle. experience has shown that the market cannot be left to solve the problem of water scarcity. clearly, the invisible hand of the market will not hand a glass of water to a thirsty person. it must also be recognised that privatisation generally raises the price of water and sanitation services, which naturally hit the poorest the hardest. since access to water is enshrined as a human right, it should affect the way we think about it. water resources should not be seen as the private property of any one country but as a common resource of the earth. however, it must be noted that treating water as a commodity to be given away free of charge reduces the chances of a well-functioning water supply system. the flexible practices advocated in the amendments for linking the public and private sectors are therefore necessary, provided that the human right to water is regarded as an inalienable principle. the lannoye report wisely emphasizes the link between water supply and sanitation and hygiene. about 6,000 people, mostly children, die each day from infectious diseases, often caused by poor hygiene. it would be a fundamental mistake to separate water, sanitation and hygiene. the first priority is to increase the domestic and international resources devoted to improving water and wastewater services in urban slums and shantytowns as well as in rural areas. the main challenge is to link sanitation and wastewater management to water supply, which cannot be achieved without significant additional investment by those responsible for water management. in addition, human-centred technologies for households to solve water and wastewater problems need to be developed. i would like to express my support for amendment no 19, which calls for the application of the debt-for-water swap so that debts can be written off and used to finance sewerage infrastructure.
(fi) mr president, i would first like to express my gratitude for the work of mr bowes. he has balanced all aspects of human health. it is fitting that we should discuss the health situation in developing countries and access to clean water in the same session. we cannot dream of health without safeguarding the basic human right to clean drinking water. clean water, effective sanitation and good hygiene are the building blocks on which health care is built. three million people die each year from diseases transmitted through contaminated water. health and poverty reduction is a subject on which almost everything has been said. we have a lot of information. that is why i will not be throwing any more tragic figures and figures at parliament. i would rather tell you briefly why i decided to run for the european parliament in my day. when i was asked to run for office, i hesitated for reasons i'm not going to go into here. but while i was thinking about it, i was on a business trip in el salvador and mexico. in the fall of 1998, i was working for the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd) on a study of the aftermath of the devastating hurricane that hit the country, the situation of aids patients, and the conditions in the slums. i met a mother of young children who had contracted hiv from her husband and who now had been diagnosed with it in a newborn. i met many other unfortunate human beings, small people crushed by big problems. and that's when i started to fear that if the politicians who decide for these people, about these people's affairs and their destiny, have never met them alive. what if they don't understand what they're deciding? what if they can't see a person through numbers? they're real people, not a popsicle. they have a pain threshold. i made the decision to go into politics because of these people. i often ask if it's anywhere and if it's enough, and i don't dare to answer. i think that if it does not become a practical decision, a gesture for the better, a hunger for justice with concrete consequences, i have no right to call myself a politician.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the constitution of europe states that it is a european value to preserve and develop linguistic diversity. today is therefore a particularly good time to present the report on regional languages and cultural diversity. i would like to thank my colleague mr ebner for the great work he has done. now, as many here have pointed out, we need concrete measures to take this work forward. i believe that developments, as ebner said, will increase the need for action on our part. it is important that we share our different experiences of multilingualism and language learning. i therefore believe that it is urgent that an institute be set up for this purpose. i do not think there is much difference between the situation today and that described in the report, which explicitly refers to the so-called language baths. it is a very good method, with which south tyrol, catalonia and finland have had positive experience. i do not see any mention of it in the commission's action plan. i am glad, however, that the commission's action plan states that universities should review their language policies so that english does not become so dominant. i would stress, however, that we must go further with the question of a multilingual and language learning institute and investigate it. i am convinced that such an institution is needed. i would also like to thank the commissioner for mentioning the conference in finland. we learned a lot at this conference, lessons which i hope parliament can also benefit from.
(fi) mr president, mr commissioner, the european union would not be as culturally or politically rich as it is today if we did not have over 40 million citizens who speak regional or minority languages. it is therefore very positive that the new draft constitution recognises the linguistic diversity of the union. article 3 states that the union shall respect the richness and diversity of its cultures and languages. i really hope that we will finally be able to move from talk to action in language policy too. throughout this parliamentary term we have encountered almost insurmountable problems in trying to channel resources from the union budget to minority languages. the reason has been the lack of a legal basis. fortunately, we have been able to draw on the help of multiannual programmes such as socrates and culture 2000, not to mention the european year of languages 2001. the rapporteur, mr ebner, has done a good job. i agree with him that the eu must have its own agency for linguistic diversity and language learning. it must be given sufficient resources to operate effectively also in an enlarged union. with enlargement, the number of communities speaking a regional or minority language is estimated to double from around 60 today. the proposal for a multiannual programme on linguistic diversity and language learning should also be supported. however, the agency or the action programme will not solve the problems faced by eu citizens who speak regional or minority languages in many member states. in particular, the right to education in one's mother tongue should be guaranteed in all member states. this is why we must invest in the training of teachers of regional or minority languages. the possibilities for financing actions to promote regional and minority languages from the budget lines of internal policies remain limited. i hope that the structural funds will be able to channel more resources to these activities. information on these possibilities must also be provided to speakers of regional or minority languages.
(fi) mr president, today's vote on the van den bos report was a very unfortunate one. it is a pity that the president-in-office, his personal reluctance or even his pride, prevented parliament from finding out the truth about the vote on amendment no 16. we all noticed that the margin was very narrow throughout the whole vote, so our request to have the result checked was very well founded. i appeal to you that this should never happen again. it violated our rights.
(fi) mr president, the commission's statement confirms the european union's commitment to maintaining peaceful and stable relations with all the countries of the middle east region. this is the only possible starting point and does not prevent the eu from presenting its own views and objectives in the framework of a global partnership. in practice, the situation is complex. it is all the more important to understand the basic everyday mechanisms that work to prevent or promote stability, just as schuman did when he proposed the ingenious idea of the communities that formed the basis of the eu. i would like to mention one of the basic mechanisms for stability and peace, the clean environment. clean water, as jordan has recently shown, is a vital issue for all the countries of the west bank, individually and jointly. unfortunately, the international community is not even aware of the environmental damage that is taking place in the west bank. the over-harvesting of water, the untreated sewage being dumped into jordan, and the uncontrolled dumping of municipal waste have led to unfathomable health risks and water shortages. the west bank environmental project is a multicultural and multidisciplinary project that aims to address key issues that threaten the health and well-being of the region's inhabitants. however, the project is not progressing sufficiently. it is not because of a lack of funding or a lack of know-how and technology. the main reason is that there is no political forum for a project in the tri-state area to agree on the practical issues necessary for the project to be implemented, although all parties are in principle in agreement on the needs and means. it is no exaggeration to say that the eu is currently the only actor in the world that could provide a political forum for efforts like the west bank environmental project to build stability and peace through the actions of the people of the region. we need a neutral mediator who can initiate decision-making beyond the political issues. without voluntary action such as the west bank environmental project, all the other eu work to implement the middle east peace plan will be in vain.
(fi) mr president, i would like to express my sincere thanks to mr fernández martín for a very substantial but well-balanced report. i would also ask commissioner nielson to convey his thanks to those involved in the drafting of the commission's communication. the commission's text is clearly written with a big heart. in theory, aid tying can even turn development aid upside down: the donor benefits and the recipient country is further impoverished. although such an extreme paradox, known in economic theory, may not be easily possible in reality, it is nevertheless a reminder of the inefficiencies and perversions of aid that are still being created and allowed in real life. the world bank and oecd estimates of savings through increased efficiency are in the fourth category. the rapporteur estimates that the net benefit of the disengagement could be as much as usd 5 billion in monetary terms. when you consider how small sums can do wonders in development cooperation, such a multi-billion euro increase is staggering. the european union's initiative in this area is significant, since the eu and its member states are jointly responsible for half of the world's development aid. the loss of efficiency in development cooperation is therefore by no means insignificant in any measurable sense. it is important to implement the conclusions adopted in barcelona as a matter of urgency. it should be taken for granted that, in accordance with simple market economy principles, eu member states exempt beneficiaries from the obligation to provide services. the key competition principles adopted in the eu work to the benefit of developing countries. this will also allow for local purchases and purchases from other developing countries, as we have already seen, and will have a multiplier effect on aid effectiveness. in addition to the welfare benefits in developing countries, the liberalisation of procurement is also important within the eu, as the aid tying still practised in many member states distorts competition also between member states and is contrary to the competition provisions of the treaty.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by thanking my dear friend and colleague dirk sterckx for his excellent work; as a nordic, i usually say thank you only when there is a real reason to do so. as dirk and the rest of you know, the bulk of the cargo on the prestige came from st petersburg through the gulf of finland, one of the seas that is very close to me, and which is already very polluted and fragile. what happened in galicia could have happened in the gulf of finland. we have said this on several occasions. that is why we feel such solidarity with our friends in galicia. we know that russia's oil exports through this particular bay will multiply, perhaps five or sixfold, in the next few years. the same applies to the transport from murmansk. it is not just the north sea and the other areas mentioned that will be affected. best friends of all time. i would ask the commission to pay particular attention to port state control in the forthcoming progress report on the candidate countries. it is clear that there is still a lot to be done in this area to ensure that control is financially and legally independent. unfortunately, we have heard examples of this not being the case. without independent and impartial port state control, it cannot work. i therefore hope that the forthcoming progress report will support this. i would also like to inform you all and the members of the commission that the parliamentary assembly of the baltic sea states, which met at the beginning of september in oulu, finland, supported the rapid phasing out of single hull tanks and the declaration of the baltic sea, or parts of it, as a particularly sensitive area, pssa, which is also mentioned in paragraph 25 of the report. the important thing about this meeting was that members of the russian state duma and of regional parliaments from russia also supported it. it is important for us to know in the continuing discussion that we will not get anywhere in many european sea areas unless the negotiations with third countries and with russia lead to results. the eu cannot do this alone, and we need all the support we can get. it is therefore important that work on the baltic sea in particular should be carried out in cooperation with colleagues. it's a path we can take to move forward.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank mr dirk sterckx for the excellent report he has produced. the report has focused on issues of vital importance to maritime safety. sterckx has done a lot of work in preparing this report and has also tabled, together with mr vermeer, a number of well-reasoned amendments, which i hope the whole of parliament will support. the respect of existing international rules is essential to improving maritime safety. states must have clear plans for emergency situations. the rescue and oil recovery equipment must be sufficient to be on the scene quickly if necessary and to prevent such a disaster from ever happening again. i too would like to stress that solutions to improve maritime safety within the union alone are not enough. responsibility issues must be addressed on a global basis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the maritime sector. i too would like to give one example: the transport of oil from russia through the gulf of finland has increased very rapidly. at the same time, the risk of an oil spill in the environmentally very sensitive baltic sea region has increased rapidly. it is essential for the baltic sea transport that russia is involved in all these maritime safety agreements. the risk is further increased by the severe ice problems in the north sea region during the winter. i take this opportunity to ask the commission representative when the commission will issue a directive on the classification of ice for the union. i also propose that the commission prepare a communication on the development of transport networks in the northern part of the union, in which maritime safety issues would also be central.
(fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support this report by mr prestige. it's important, you know. the baltic sea will be a de facto inland sea of the union from next year, a sea whose waters change only once every quarter of a century. it's exceptionally sensitive to oil damage. the second oil port is already under construction on the bottom of the gulf of finland, threatening the safety of the entire sea. remember, when sailing there, you may encounter 20-meter-high ice caps! at the same time, the number of crossings between helsinki and tallinn is increasing, so we urgently need the proposal for the transport arrangements on this sea, which the commissioner has promised. the baltic sea is a transit point for 100 million tonnes of oil, and all the countries have the capacity to purify only 10 000 tonnes, or one tank for one ship, or 0.1 per thousand of the total. there is therefore a real risk of major accidents. there were collisions last winter, ships running into each other. the withdrawal of the monohulls from service must not be delayed as much as it seems. we believe that this should be done now and not years from now. the baltic sea should also have special zones where these vessels can only be escorted by an escort vessel, such as a ballistic missile with anti-oil capability. there would also be break-in assistance, which many ships bound for russian ports had none at all, let alone merchant ships that sailed there with ice for weeks without this assistance. we need more support and action from the commission. i am in favour of setting up an ad hoc committee of inquiry to look into this matter.
(fi) mr president, i would like to thank my colleague, mr dirk sterckx, for his thorough work. the prestige accident ten months ago has caused an exceptionally large economic and environmental disaster. to ensure that it never happens again, this is the approach that is needed. it is necessary to analyse the causes of the accident and draw political conclusions from them. however, it must be noted that most of the legislation needed to promote maritime safety already exists. the actions taken in connection with the two erika packages could have prevented the prestige accident. maritime safety can be improved by respecting existing international rules. the key condition is that member states transpose the adopted erica legislation into national law as quickly as possible and strictly monitor its application. the monitoring of compliance with international law is also of paramount importance. the commission should initiate an amendment to the un convention on the law of the sea, on which parliament would have a lot to propose. the un convention on the law of the sea states that a coastal state may not interfere with the traffic of ships flying the flag of another state and outside its territorial waters. the agreement does not reflect the current reality of maritime transport. the commission must urgently obtain negotiating powers from the council. the coastal state is best placed to control ships passing in front of its coast and must be given certain powers in exceptional cases. only then can we bring third countries and stateless vessels to the same cause. we must also develop the assessment of transboundary environmental impacts, which is an important tool, particularly in protecting the seas. every oil spill is a disaster that we can't afford. it should also be noted that there are certain particularly vulnerable sea areas in the european union, such as the baltic sea, where an accident would be highly destructive. i have myself proposed that the eu should become a member of the arctic council. the eu's membership of the arctic council would strengthen the euro-atlantic environmental consensus and provide the eu with a significant forum for the protection of, inter alia, the marine life of the north.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, the european union's growing energy needs will be met in the near future by natural gas. the gas reserves of the nearby regions, the north sea and north africa, will only be sufficient for ten or twenty years, and gas must be imported from the east. the pipeline route from the caspian sea region to western europe is a matter of great power politics. the eu's position on this issue must not be too dependent on nato. we have to protect our own interests first. it must be remembered that the largest gas reserves in the world are in russia. the best policy is that the eu participates in investments in russian gas resources against long-term supply contracts. the problems of liberalisation of the gas market are related to the fact that market participants on gas exchanges are only interested in buying and selling gas, but not in producing gas for investment. the market is too short-term and therefore measures by the member states to safeguard long-term supply contracts are also necessary. there's no such contracts in the market. you can't store gas the way you store oil. for this reason, the modes of transport and the needs for emergency storage of oil and gas differ. the responsibility for the security of supply of both oil and gas lies with the member states and cannot be delegated to market forces. our group supports the critical votes of the rapporteurs on the commission's proposals. we are well aware of the demands that karlsson's report should be returned to committee.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their work on the reports. the amendments to the directives have, with the commission's agreement, improved the poor presentations. the amendments adopted in committee are still not sufficient, however, as has been stated in many speeches here. responsibility for maintaining the security of energy supply falls primarily within the scope of national energy policy. in order to improve security of supply, agreements with other countries must also be concluded. member states should be free to decide on the organisation of oil emergency stocks. some member states have abandoned public storage facilities. they have succeeded in organizing things in a different way, in a way that is both efficient and cost-effective. member states must be able to assess and decide when the placing of oil stocks in another member state can be permitted without compromising security of supply. however, the placing of foreign reserves should be done by means of international agreements and in accordance with current practice. the security of energy supply requires that the specific circumstances of each member state be taken into account. it is also important to ensure the diversity of energy sources and the equitable distribution of energy suppliers in order to improve energy security. i would also like to point out that the promotion of local renewable energy increases security of supply, reduces dependence on energy imports and also creates jobs.
(fi) mr president, i thank the rapporteur for his report. if the activities of open source software, individual developers and small associations are used to make patenting more difficult by extending it, the foundations of the information society will be destroyed. innovations like linux that benefit everyone show how big things are - indeed, how much we are closing the digital divide. the copyright law, on the other hand, already protects the software code. the downside of software patents is that the designer may not always know that he is infringing the patents, but he may be subject to a huge liability. the limits of patentability must be defined in such a way that programs, algorithms or business methods cannot be patented as such and that patents cannot be used to prevent competition. we support small business in this sector.
(fi) in writing. the proposal for a directive on the patentability of computer-generated inventions has certainly aroused more passion than any other issue recently before parliament. my own position on the directive has been critical from the outset. however, i am not entirely opposed to the proposal for a directive, because i think it is good that the current confusing situation in the conditions for granting software patents is clarified. at present, with the lack of clarity of the rules, the decisions of the national patent offices and the epo may have been very different and therefore common european rules of the game may be necessary. however, the report will have to be amended a great deal before it can be adopted. the amendments i have tabled would make the directive less harmful to independent software developers and smes. my main arguments are as follows: the directive in its current form could seriously disadvantage independent software developers and european smes, which may find it impossible to survive the patent jungle of the big software giants. patent processing times are very long and applying for patents is expensive. they could therefore slow down and even prevent the development of a european software sector that depends on innovation and rapid reactions. in addition, communication and interoperability between software should be possible without high licensing costs. i'm all for open interfaces. algorithms, business models or computer programs as such should not be patentable. one of the main purposes of patenting has been to bring inventions to the attention of society. patents for computer-implemented inventions are almost useless as sources of information if the source code is not published. in the united states, for most software patents, the source code is published in the patent application as part of established business practice in the industry. this should also be possible in europe. i hope that tomorrow's vote will be a positive one and that as many of my colleagues as possible will show their support for the creative and innovative european software industry.
(fi) mr president, the budget of the european union presented by the council is very disciplined. the payment appropriations are only 0.99% of gni, i.e. eur 11.4 billion in cash, below the financial perspective. the commission's budget is structured as a 31 policy area activity-based budget. this has long been a clear objective of our group. it makes it easier to follow the eu's actions. the costs of each policy area are clearly visible. the administrative and operational costs are differentiated. the effectiveness of the action can be better assessed, as can the ratio of results achieved to the amount of money spent. excessive bureaucracy is accompanied by disproportionate administrative costs. the biggest problem with eu budget policy is unspent appropriations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. in the accounts we find that disputes over a few euros are completely futile when billions of appropriations are not used, even well over ten billion euros a year. next year's budget will be dominated by eu enlargement. the council has been firm in its position on the commission's posts required for enlargement. our group believes that enlargement requires a sufficient number of posts, but that it must not be used as an excuse to inflate the civil service. the administrative success of enlargement depends not only on the creation of new posts but also on the re-orientation and better allocation of existing resources. our group supports the priorities that mulder has outlined. we are concerned about human rights funding, as well as the funding of the international court of justice in the hague. we also hope that the northern dimension action programme will be duly taken into account in the budget lines. the commission should also strengthen regional cooperation with new neighbours under the wider europe programme and simplify the management of the related funds.
(fi) mr president, next year the final budget of the eu-25 will be less than 1% of the gross domestic product of the member states. the union seems to lack ambitious plans to support social cohesion in the member states. many of the new member states, or at least their citizens, are disappointed in their expectations when they do not receive a drop of manna from heaven. you can't close the gap between the two without money. the commission is underrepresented in this parliamentary debate. i would have liked to have had at least michel barnier and chris patten present, without in any way underestimating the expertise of michaele schreyer. i would like to hear from the commissioners mentioned in connection with next year's budget the commission's plans to reduce the ral-rate on the basis of the 'sunset clause'. the council representative did not have a clear idea of the reduction in ral items. the commission should have one. our group in the cohesion countries would like to know which of the conditions of the sunset clause has given rise to the winding-up of the rals. if they are the result of the commission's inaction, then the budgetary authority has been overruled. if they are the result of miscalculations by member states' governments, then the cuts are justified. the member states must comply with the rules and we demand an explanation of how the rals were created. the budget for next year is apparently being written into the budget for the reconstruction of iraq. we are about to introduce a division of labour similar to that in afghanistan: the us, in this case with the help of prime minister blair, attacks and destroys, and the eu pays for reconstruction. our group is very critical of this, but we want to use eu funds instead to rebuild the palestinian sites destroyed by israel. there was no oil war in palestine. finally, the expenditure on the common foreign and security policy and the financing of the pan-european political parties is criticised by many members of our group. the eu is seen as driving the liberalization and privatisation of markets through its community action and thus the neoliberal policies made in the usa.
(fi) mr president, first of all i would like to thank commissioners schreyer and kinnock for the successful reform of the commission's administration and the related reform of the financial regulation. they provide the basis for clarifying personal responsibility, accountability and establishing performance-based budgeting and governance. this budget is the first truly action-oriented budget. the development of action-oriented governance is a continuous challenge. the aim should be to give the various policy areas room to manoeuvre in order to create the most efficient possible governance structure. this means that in future it will probably be possible to do without the need for parliament to decide separately on the creation or modification of each office. parliament decides only on the amount of money available in a particular area of administration. it can then decide for itself which governance structure is most appropriate. in the future, the definition and the carrying of personal responsibility will be central, as activity-based budgeting and management will lead to a downward shift in decision-making. in the field of financial management, it must be possible to define what is required for sound financial management. the various organisations and ngos supported by the european parliament have their own special interests. these so-called earmarked a-30 budget lines have been a budget freak. the access of organizations to it has been, frankly, random. the european dimension of these associations and organisations has often been no more specific than that of the hundreds of other organisations which have acted without support. the legal basis for the system is now being established and the granting of aid is being transferred to the commission. this measure must be implemented as soon as possible.
(fi) mr president, we can be glad that the lisbon process is working despite everything. this is demonstrated by the two multiannual programmes which will come into force from the beginning of next year. erasmus mundus is a master's programme to increase europe's attractiveness to third-country nationals. the e-learning project, which parliament has been active in creating through a pilot project, will provide new opportunities for cooperation between schools and universities, among others. it is now necessary to ensure that the programmes are financed to the required level. the funding of the year of physical education must also be secured and the opportunities for youth organisations in the new member states must be improved. it is good that enlargement is taken into account in the socrates youth programme and the culture 2000 programme. the transition to an action-based budget will provide an opportunity to create a legal basis for the financing of european cultural organisations. if we are strong and wise, we will be able to produce legislation that serves cultural cooperation and, at the same time, better meets the requirements of transparency and good governance.
(fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the field of energy policy, the union's support is needed for the transeuropean energy network, the intelligent energy programme, sustainable energy systems and nuclear safety projects. the union has set ambitious targets to promote the co-production of renewable energy sources and electricity and heat. it is regrettable that the budget for energy research has been cut in order to achieve the objectives. supporting the use of local renewable energy sources in a diversified manner will improve energy security and reduce dependence on imports. transport policy must start from the development of a diversified transport network, the elimination of congestion, the improvement of safety and the promotion of sustainable transport. the development of transeuropean transport networks has not progressed as desired due to insufficient funding. only three of the 14 essen projects have been completed, and in the summer the van miert group listed a number of new ten projects. the union must contribute the necessary funding for both old and new projects and take account of the needs of an enlarged union. the functioning of the internal market requires flexible transport links between the different regions of the union. transport links in the peripheral regions are a necessity. in the summer, the commission adopted a communication on the development of transport in the mediterranean. i think that a similar communication should also be drawn up for northern transport.
mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. i am a northerner and do not usually engage in flowery language, but i would like to thank phillip whitehead and the commission officials for the intensive work that has been done to ensure that we quickly make this proposal a reality. we have all worked in the spirit of the importance of strengthening consumer organisations and strengthening the objectives of consumer work. so i want to thank phillip. the previous speakers have already mentioned the situation in the candidate countries. we are building this for the new europe. in this area, as in many others, i believe there is an old barrier that we must fight. i believe that strong consumer organisations are very important in giving citizens the opportunity to participate and influence. this is another reason why it is important to have approval so that the candidate countries can join the necessary network. in parliament's amendments we point to the importance of really integrating consumer issues into other areas. it has been a question that has been particularly close to my heart. we as members of parliament see how strong the lobbying is in other areas. we must empower the consumer to study, to inform and to exchange best practice. then there are the mobile phone calls, the pricing, the invoicing in different countries. that is why i think it is important that we raise this issue. the previous speakers, in particular the rapporteur and the commissioner, spoke about the administrative procedures. the work we have done together - and i want to emphasise this together - can be truly ground-breaking in bringing about rapid procedures and quick responses, rather than constantly forcing applicants to communicate when it is not necessary. i hope this will serve as an example of better practice. we in the committee proposed that the committee referred to in article 15 be dissolved. we knew the council might not accept the proposal. i hope, however, that the commissioner, the commission and all of us agree to follow up the matter: how much does the committee charge? does it pay what it costs? in an enlarged eu it can be very difficult to have these kinds of large committees deciding on rather small amounts of money. i hope we will get a fair follow-up from the commission on what the article 15 committee will actually cost.
(fi) mr president, i would like to draw attention to the excellent report by mr jan andersson on adequate and sustainable pensions. it is good that parliament is actively involved in the debate on pensions, as pensions and their payment are one of the major social and economic challenges of the coming decades. ageing is no longer necessarily poverty, as statutory public pension schemes, complemented by private occupational pension schemes and private insurance, guarantee many europeans the ability to maintain their standard of living after retirement. however, the generation gap must be narrowed by a radical reform of pension systems, so that the burden of rising pensions is not placed on younger generations. four factors threaten the functioning of public pension systems without relevant reforms. these factors are the continuously increasing life expectancy, combined with low birth rates, high long-term unemployment and late entry into working life. large age groups will start to retire this decade, and by 2050, the number of pensioners in relation to working age will double. the share of publicly funded pension schemes is estimated to be as high as one fifth of gdp in some member states. i think that the european pension systems have largely achieved their social objectives. however, in order to strengthen pension security, the priority must be to raise the retirement age, to increase complementary forms of financing and to increase long-term private saving. at community level, we need coordination in the taxation of earnings-related pensions to facilitate the movement of people from one country to another and comprehensive internal market legislation for institutions providing earnings-related pensions. at european union level, we can help to defuse the pension bomb by helping to develop crossborder personal pension and savings schemes. i hope that this parliament will continue to act actively on these issues in the future, on the basis of this excellent report by mr andersson.
(fi) mr president, i would like to thank mr jonckheere for his excellent work. i think the directive adopted in committee is very good. i think it is a good and positive thing that the environment and fair competition are being brought together in the energy market. common minimum levels of energy taxation are necessary and the polluter pays principle is important, as long as we remember to take into account the effects on competition and employment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the emission reduction targets are met. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to all energy sources, including renewable energy sources, and to all energy sources, including fossil fuels. in this way, both consumers and industry can be guided by economic incentives to use environmentally friendly energy. the commission's proposal on the tax benefits of certain biofuels is very welcome. although this directive does not directly address hydrogen, among other things, it is a good and important source of energy for the future, which may eventually replace oil, especially for transport. the support for hydrogen in terms of taxation is certainly to be welcomed. however, it must be borne in mind that taxation that deviates from neutral taxation affects the functioning of the market and that such aid measures must therefore be temporary and exceptional in order to promote new fuels and production methods. the troubled aviation industry has long enjoyed tax-free jet fuel. in this respect, taxation is a problematic issue, as the machines have a fairly flexible choice of refuelling point. if a tax is imposed on aviation fuel within the eu but not outside the eu, this would lead to refuelling outside the union. the international agreement on the tax exemption of aviation fuel must therefore be respected. member states should retain the right to decide on the tax treatment of fuels in local use. these fuels, such as peat, which is important in my country, are not relevant to the functioning of the internal market, but at local level they can be very important and necessary sources of energy and employers. energy taxes are already widely used in finland and other nordic countries, so even shorter transitional periods would not be a problem for the nordic countries. but i have acquiesced to the will of the majority of my group. my group will not support a faster timetable than that proposed by mr jonckheer. so, on this one, i would have been willing to go further.
(fi) mr president, the matter before us has been a difficult one for the council. however, the long process of more than five years in the council has been a disappointment. it is time to put this disappointment aside and to make progress on the directive as a first step in the necessary direction. i am pleased to note that this is precisely the kind of practical approach that is also reflected in the rapporteur's report. the council has expressed its commitment to the introduction of instruments to decouple economic growth from energy consumption. the commission is also committed to such efforts, as is parliament. so in principle there is no obstacle to a significant change. in practice, it is sorely needed. the directive we have now provides that opportunity, and it is our responsibility to implement it quickly. in a unified european economy, the solution must be more coherent. while meeting the needs of the member states, the energy tax offers the opportunity to reduce the taxation of labour and employment and to provide an efficient and precise means of steering the environment in the right direction. taxation of energy products is a long-needed link linking the components of sustainable development. i would also like to mention the link between energy taxation and the recently finalised emissions trading directive. independent research shows that addressing the climate change challenge is most cost-effective in the macroeconomic context if the right level of reduction target is set for non-ets sectors. the cheese-mound method will not do that, but a comprehensive energy tax system is needed. ensure that each sector is subject to either energy taxation or emissions trading. thus, every company, through taxation, faces a price cap that corresponds to the marginal cost of society. europe urgently needs an ambitious energy taxation system. it seems that the responsibility for bringing it about lies with the commission and parliament.
(fi) mr president, i think it is positive that the proposals of the preparatory commission strengthen the role of the council and intergovernmental cooperation in the decision-making process of the union. the weakest link in the proposed new treaty is the council proposals. although many were opposed to the creation of new institutions, the committee proposes two new institutions. the european council is treated as a separate institution and is proposed to have an external chair. both proposals have failed. the council will be treated as a single institution in the new treaty and the long-term presidency of the council will be appointed by the prime minister or president in office. the presidencies of the ministerial councils in the various fields must be shared between representatives of several countries. the presidencies should last two and a half years and be distributed equally between the member states. such a reform of the council would be in line with the proposals made by the secretary-general of the council, javier solana, more than a year ago. they must be taken up in the igc, as the eldr group proposes in amendment no 28.
mr president, the constitution abolishes the present european union and establishes a new one which, according to the constitution, expresses the will of the citizens and the states. we know how to find out what the will of the nations is. it is represented by governments and national parliaments. the will of the people is not always the will of the state, and there is no alternative to a referendum to determine this. it would be fairer if it were to be organised in each member state separately but on the same day. if the draft constitution of the preparatory commission were to be put to the vote without amendments, i would vote against it and would urge others to do the same. the reason is that the preparatory committee worked in an undemocratic way. it was a dictatorship of the presidency, or politburo, and the preparatory commission did not vote on the more than six thousand amendments or outcomes put forward by the members. the preparatory commission implemented a redistribution of power in favour of the big countries and the union was militarized. the member states lose their right to a permanent member of the commission with voting rights and are no longer able to elect their own commissioners. all commissioners-designate must be committed to the european cause, but what is the european cause? it's a matter of federalism. the eu is being made into a federation, and the committee even adopted the constitution last night, contrary to the mandate of the thessaloniki summit, with the symbols of a federation, flags, anthems and national days. the constitution is militarizing the eu. it is a new military structural cooperation and a declaration annexed to the constitution by which the member states give each other collective security guarantees. the finnish army commander said that the adoption of the declaration would lead finland to nato, and that is not accepted by our people. these are the reasons for saying no to such a constitution.
mr president, the oral amendment to article 4(3) is as follows: 'the technical contribution shall be assessed by consideration of the difference between all of the technical features of the patent claim and the state of the art, irrespective of whether or not such features are accompanied by non-technical features.' this amendment merges my original amendments 110 and 16.
(fi) mr president, the failure of the doha round interim review conference in cancun was a defeat for the acceleration of world economic growth. it was an undeserved loss for us in the eu too, but above all it was a loss for the developing countries. the atmosphere at the beginning of the meeting was cautiously optimistic. the european union and the united states had reached agreement on their joint proposal to reduce barriers to agricultural trade and subsidies, an agreement on access to generic medicines to improve access to medicines in developing countries had been signed - what went wrong? if we exclude the hasty decision of the president of the sitting, in my view, at a time when everyone had reserved at least 35 hours for effective negotiation, there must be many reasons. the new feature of the doha meeting was the presence of the so-called group of 21 countries. as has already been said here, this group may have had not only trade but also power policy objectives, including opposition to real or imagined us unilateralism. while these countries spoke as if they represented all the underdeveloped nations, they themselves were not prepared to give up their high barriers to trade with poorer nations. part of the cotton problem is connected to this. it is time to see more generally, not just in europe, that the development of the developing countries is beginning to diverge sharply, and it is good to ask the question of what is really a developing country. is it still india as a whole, or even china or brazil? other developed countries should also learn from the eu and conclude all-except-arms agreements, as we have done with the 49 poorest countries. it should also be remembered that the eu, in addition to being the largest donor of development aid, buys, among other things, 80% of africa's agricultural exports. formally, the meeting fell into the so-called four singapore issues. why, when every single country can make a residual reserve in respect of these? why, when it was agreed at doha that these were also on the agenda? it was more about the timetable. how much opposition to cotton trade liberalization contributed to the collapse of the convention is unclear, but it certainly was. a large number of ngos, as noted here, rejoiced at the failure of the meeting. it is to be hoped that the underdeveloped countries will not be caught in the future by the same kind of trap as in cancun. we have to move on. the eu and the commissioners negotiating on its behalf have nothing to be ashamed of or to hide. the commission did a great deal of preparatory work to ensure the success of the meeting and also used the negotiating power it had at its disposal during the meeting. the eu's task will be to strengthen the wto and accelerate negotiations, and thereby to make the eu's trade policy position even clearer to the less developed countries, which do not yet seem to know it.
(fi) mr president, i thank mr van velzen for his meritorious work and for his enthusiasm in the negotiations with the council representatives in preparing the compromise amendments. i would also like to begin by thanking the commission and commissioner liikanen for his expertise and contribution to the drafting of this directive. i support the compromise reached by the rapporteur together with the council, as this would save the painful and always risky conciliation procedure. the european parliament wants the directive to be implemented quickly by the member states, as the benefits for citizens and businesses are undeniable. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the directive, including a number of amendments to the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. harmonization is also needed in this sector. the compromise amendments shall include a position on the accessibility of public documents, including, where possible, in electronic form. i agree with mr van velzen that it would be much more logical and realistic to speak of public information than of documents. no longer do we print all our documents exclusively on paper. the various forms of electronic publication are becoming more common and archives are increasingly kept in electronic form. it is very important that the public sector sets the example in our journey towards the information society. many public documents are par excellence the sensible and meaningful content that is often so much talked about, especially in the context of wireless services. the various forms and forms must be made available on the internet. and then users will show up for different applications, for 3g, for 4g, for 5g, when there's meaningful content. i'm not really excited about ordering funny pictures on my phone anymore. another controversial issue has been how much public bodies are allowed to charge for their services, or whether they are allowed to charge at all. from the outset, i have been a firm believer that public records are a service of general interest to all. agencies and institutions supported by tax money are obliged to do the work for which they were originally set up - to serve their sponsors, the taxpayers. however, the expert organisations must be able to deduct their costs, i.e. the reasonable compensation, from the basic services, materials and supplies. the question of cost becomes secondary when we talk about tailor-made services for individual customers, or in this case citizens. these are typical payment services for which the public sector must also be able to charge a fee. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to access the information they need to make their purchases. the combination of basic data in a way that the customer specifically wishes, for example by producing a statistical survey, is also a tailor-made service. in such a case, it is reasonable for the public authority carrying out the expert work to charge for its services in accordance with the normal market economy rules. the maintenance of expertise, development work and the development of new technology in expert organisations must be made possible either by taxation or by these paid services, tailor-made work. in many member states, a number of types of specialised skills are held by public sector institutions, for reasons of, inter alia, historical and cultural background. finally, this is the sector that will take us forward towards the implementation of the lisbon strategy. which year, no one knows, but this is one small step towards it.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mr van velzen has again done a very good job. he does it smoothly and cleverly, and the result is like a woodworking machine. i thank him for that. there are many kinds of information, including public information. of course, the administrative information must be available to citizens free of charge and must be available from a single source, the portal. and business, for its business, of course, pays for the fact that it can be reproduced there by the data producer, so there is a return on this investment. this is a big business. the value of public sector information is estimated at approximately eur 70 billion and the content sector employs four million people in the european union. that's a lot of it. this market is worth over eur 400 billion. even mobile communications are going to be worth a couple of dozen million euros in the near future in terms of their content, the content of these little fleas. knowledge and information are the most important factors in democracy and the economy. the abundance of information is what separates us from the poor. it's a security factor and a tool of war. the same people are affected by "information poverty" as by "social poverty". do you think the possibility of mercy would help, because information is not diminished by the one who shares it with others, no matter how much he shares it? and i ask the commissioner whether this could not be one new element of our development aid, the sharing of information, of knowledge, because it does not diminish us even if we share it.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, the ombudsman, the ombudsman, the ombudsman, the ombudsman, the ombudsman, the ombudsman, the ombudsman, the ombudsman! i would like to thank jacob söderman for being here today, for his work but also for the joy he always spreads wherever he goes. i'm glad the earl of stockton mentioned it, too. we have seen the 2002 annual report. it is a solid annual report based on solid and solid work. the tone is clear, we're looking ahead. however, let me say with nordic frankness that there are probably also some problems in the relations between the european parliament, the commission and the ombudsman. one problem is that the commission has not responded to any of the reports we have written in response to the ombudsman's special reports. it's a vacuum that we should do something about. another problem that we have to deal with once the igc has concluded is that the proposal to amend the ombudsman's statute has, in a way, stalled. the proposal has not been adopted, we have not received the guarantees for the ombudsman to have access to all the documents needed. we must take a new approach once the igc is over. the ombudsman is certainly mentioned in the draft constitution, but i think many of us would have seen an even stronger position for the ombudsman as an institution. it is a bit ironic that today we are discussing the ombudsman's report, the ombudsman who is supposed to combat maladministration, when the rest of the house is full of rumours about bad administration and eurostat. these are not, of course, reasons for taking a legal position on eurostat and what has happened, but one wonders whether the administrative relations between the various european control bodies are as they should be. how is it possible that the court of auditors has not found fault with eurostat? how is it possible that olaf's communication to the secretary-general of the commission has been so secret that the members of the commission have not received these communications? many questions about the flow of information are asked in the eurostat shop. i think it would be very good if the new ombudsman could examine the relationship between the audit and control bodies and see whether they meet the requirements of good administration and sufficient transparency. i fully respect the ombudsman's independence, but i still think that this could be an idea that the ombudsman's office could take up in its future work. i would like to congratulate our newly elected ombudsman on his work. we know he's already left a good mark in our administration.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, i have to say that i am very pleased. i too would like to express my warm thanks to laura gonzález álvarez for the friendship and the good work we have done. we already miss her here in parliament. i would also like to thank the secretariat of the committee on petitions for its hard and successful work. with little added resources, much more work has been done, and we have been relatively visible. i think it's been a successful year. since our last debate, the perry report has become relevant. we have the stocktons report on reverend owen and the fourtous report, which has led to results on silicone breast implants. we will then debate bushmeat and multiple sclerosis. unfortunately, we are not getting anywhere with the spanish water plan. however, we all agree that, in the run-up to enlargement, we must develop the handling of petitions, especially at the beginning of the work, and take stock of the cooperation that the ombudsman extended some years ago. i think this is important, especially in the context of enlargement. one thing that concerns me is the cases where complaints to the commission under article 226 and petitions to the committee concern the same matter. there should be a code of conduct so that the commission publishes its answers to the questions specifically for the committee on petitions. in conclusion, i would like to say that our petitions act as a kind of citizens' initiative which will be included in the new constitution.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it has been a pleasure to hear, this morning, the compliments that my compatriot jacob söderman has received here, warmly and passionately. i wish the successor very much luck. it has been particularly interesting, as a relatively new member of the committee on petitions, to learn about its work, also in the form of the annual report. it is a great thing, especially now that we are discussing the future of the committee on petitions, that we have a report which, after reading it, cannot be too emphatic about the special position of the committee on petitions among the committees. however, it is important that good legislation is enacted at european level, especially in areas such as environmental protection where problems do not know national boundaries. but how does it benefit us or the environment if member states apply european legislation only when it does not conflict with other interests? while it is the national authorities, and ultimately the courts, who have the primary responsibility for ensuring that community law is complied with, there is also a need for european remedies when national authorities fail to fulfil their obligations. when a citizen is not normally able to bring a case before the court of justice, the only remaining option is to complain to the commission or to petition the european parliament. the commission, of course, has the primary responsibility for ensuring that community law is respected, but on the other hand it does not always seem keen enough to intervene in the member states' own affairs. we do not receive large numbers of applications from finland or other nordic countries. one of the individual cases threatening the natural diversity of finland is the helsinki vuosaari port project, which has been brought through an appeal to the community legal review which the finnish authorities have considered unnecessary. the vuosaari case is an example of a case in which the commission has not been able to intervene for one reason or another. however, when one reads the report by laura gonzález álvarez, one can see that the committee on petitions has proved to be an excellent channel for direct democracy and for real concrete results.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr von wogau, i am also pleased to see you again. i have not forgotten the quality of our exchanges in the various parliamentary or extraparliamentary groups where you have been involved in european defence matters, particularly when i myself was, within the framework of the convention, the head of the group on european defence policy. i would like to thank you, mr von wogau, for the excellent report on the fourth annual report on the european union code of conduct on arms exports which you have just presented. one of the merits of this report is that it places the issue of arms exports in a broader context, that of the policies of the european union, in particular the challenge of enlargement which we now face, the common foreign and security policy and, of course, defence policy, as well as the one concerning the necessary development of a union policy on equipment and defence. the european union code of conduct, which was adopted in 1998, is politically binding on the member states. the ultimate responsibility for arms exports lies with national governments. however, certain aspects of the arms trade are covered by the cfsp, in which the commission is fully associated. the commission is trying to do its utmost in areas of community competence and is ready to work with the member states in areas where responsibilities are shared, such as compliance with the dual-use goods regulation. the commission welcomes the progress made by the council last year under the danish and greek presidencies in implementing the code and improving transparency. i would mention in particular the improvements in the data provided in the annual report and the introduction of the compilation of practices agreed by the member states in the framework of the code of conduct, as well as the adoption last june of the common position on the control of arms brokering activities. the commission is aware of the very keen interest which the european parliament has in this matter and in particular of the constructive and ambitious position which your report, mr von wogau, shows, which encourages the council to continue and improve its work in this field. we very much agree with your assessment, mr president, of the fourth year of implementation of this code. we welcome many of the suggestions in your report, both those for greater transparency and more stringent controls and those for greater harmonization and legally binding provisions. we support your proposal to make more frequent use of the opportunities offered by the conventional arms export group and the council's geographical working groups to develop joint analyses and a more multilateral approach. this could be an important step towards harmonising the arms export policies of all member states. more attention should be paid to attempts to define commonly the eighth criterion of the code concerning the compatibility of arms exports with the technical and economic capacity of the recipient country. it also seems to me very important for the union that the acceding countries fully associate themselves with this code of conduct process, particularly in terms of data exchange and notification of refused authorisations. the union should furthermore continue to encourage third countries to adhere to the principles of the code and continue to support efforts, notably in the context of the g8, to establish an international instrument in this field. the commission has presented a proposal for a council regulation on trade in certain equipment and products which may be used for torture or for the purpose of capital punishment or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. it seems to me that it is necessary to enforce, without exception, the european policy prohibiting the death penalty and torture, while respecting the requirements of the wto. this necessity explains the relative complexity of this approach. for this reason, the preparation of our proposal, which is now being examined by the council's bodies, has been delayed. we hope, however, that it will be adopted very soon. the european parliament's report and - as you recalled, mr von wogau - the very important proposals of general morillon very accurately highlight the link between export control measures and the development of a european union policy on defence equipment, as proposed in the commission's communication of march 2003. there is obviously a link between the relaxation of controls on the movement of arms within the european union, on the one hand, and the tightening and harmonisation of export control practices to third countries, on the other. in this connection, proposals for a common control system within the european union should be carefully examined. in the light of this idea, which you and i have worked on in the framework of the convention, the possibility of creating a european arms export control agency and, more generally, a european arms, equipment and research agency should be explored, which could be one of the tools of a single arms market, which, as you have recalled, is a real necessity. i would like to say this in response to what mr von wogau said, and thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention.
(fi) mr president, mr von wogau's clear and balanced report deserves warm thanks. the report analyses the current situation and proposes a coherent follow-up. in particular, taking account of the enlargement of the union is also important in this context, as the major markets for conventional arms are still concentrated in the countries now acceding and those bordering on them. the eu's practices must be reviewed and harmonised without delay and the eu's code of conduct must be enforced at the eu's new borders and in countries with which it has a stability and association agreement. the rapporteur rightly points out the error of the present member states in that the export data for exports to stable countries, other eu countries and the usa are provided in detail, but the data for exports to less stable countries are missing. the remedy proposed in the report, namely greater transparency and multilateralism, is the only way to correct the shortcomings and prevent arms transfers that threaten human rights, regional stability or sustainable development. the development and harmonisation of legislation and the establishment of a register and licensing system for arms export transactions at eu level are essential, and the idea of establishing a european arms export control agency, as presented in the report, must be seriously considered as a coherent follow-up to the common european policy on supply and procurement and the creation of a common market for defence equipment. however, one point in the explanatory statement to mr von wogau's report needs to be corrected: the legislation in force in finland on the export of defence equipment is in line with the recommendations of the un firearms protocol and the osce small arms act. the purpose of the control of defence procurement in finland is to prevent the circumvention of arms export bans imposed by the european union, the un security council and the organisation for security and cooperation in europe, the eu code of conduct on arms exports and other international agreements and commitments on export controls. it also aims to prevent the illicit manufacture and trade of arms. it is therefore to be expected that my own country will support the line presented by mr von wogau.
(fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, space is essential to european competitiveness. it is essential that our continent also develops and produces new technologies. european innovations and different components must not be excluded from the market by trade barriers or other obstacles in any competitive situation. the rapid development of communications requires that europe has sufficient capacity under its own control via satellites. the large investment required by the sector makes it necessary to support european initiatives to develop space technology through the umbrella organisation. we may not need european heroic movie astronauts here in europe. esa satellites, on the other hand, observe important environmental conditions, help with transport and map the earth's near space. i would like to know if this is going to spread to the wider european community. the european union is aiming for a knowledge-based economy. it can't function coherently without the space factor being involved. it is important that europe is integrated and operational from space. so many of our problems today are partially solved by the fact that we have a competent and functioning technology in space.
(fi) mr president, the summit between russia and the european union is next week, and chechnya has just held elections which, even with the best of intentions, cannot be regarded as the kind of presidential elections to which we in the west are accustomed. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the middle east. we have discussed more distant matters here in separate discussions. the war in chechnya has not changed into anything, but it would require a debate. that is why i am proposing this separate debate and i am speaking very strongly in favour of it. all credit to these other proposed debates, but they are still somewhat more remote from our subject.
(fi) mr president, i would like to draw the attention of the house to one of the most important issues, one of the most important for the future of this institution, namely the members' statute. i understand that last week the committee of permanent representatives of the member states, coreper, returned parliament's proposal for a new statute to parliament. i would now like to ask, in the presence of this house, how parliament intends to proceed from this, so that we can get a new, more transparent and unified statute adopted before the elections, and what procedure is to be followed in dealing with this matter so that we can move to a new, better system in the next electoral term after the european elections. i would like to hear your views as president on this matter.
(fi) mr president, i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on this important work. forests are an important natural resource whose sustainable management is of great importance not only for biodiversity and ecological balance but also for our economy and well-being. it is important to establish a common knowledge base on the state of european forests and the environmental pollution that threatens them. this will help us to better respond to threats and to develop policies that will also safeguard high-quality forest resources in the future. the commission proposal was incorporated into the programme's financing in the context of the parliament's debate on the subject. the same parliament has also been prepared to increase the funding of the programme as part of an intergroup compromise. the council has taken a strong common position against both of these points - both the inclusion of measures to combat forest fires and the increase in funding. however, there has been a clear convergence of views during the discussions. parliament and the commission have worked hard to bring the council closer to parliament. we must now ensure that this consensus is maintained to the end. if the compromise between the groups in this parliament is jeopardised in some respects in tomorrow's vote, the implementation of the whole programme will also be jeopardised, and i hope that the mental strength requested by the rapporteur will be present in the vote tomorrow. the compromise also includes the fact that the programme will end at the end of 2006. the commission should submit a new proposal to continue the work on protecting forests against air pollution and other forest-degrading phenomena. but we must not forget the diversity of european forests. forest fire management activities shall be carried out through regional programmes in order to address the issues that are most relevant to each region and to ensure that the management activities are appropriate to the type of forest and the type of climate. it is also important that the citizens of the region are involved in these programmes. for this reason, when this programming is done in the future, i think these matters should be brought out very clearly and i believe that the member states will provide valuable information before the commission then makes its own proposal for the period after 2006.
(fi) mr president, i would like to thank mrs redondo jiménez for her excellent work on the report on the forest focus programme. it is great that the european union is taking this important step to improve the state of our forests and to support a better and more diverse forestry policy in all member states. for the nordic countries, and finland in particular, forests are of particular importance for both recreational and economic use and for nature conservation. the eu member states' forests are very different, partly because of their natural conditions. the social importance of forests and their primary use also varies across europe. last summer we saw the devastation caused by the forest fires. i am glad that parliament is now taking account not only of monitoring but also of forest fire prevention. i would particularly like to support amendment no 19 on the status of the standing committee on forests. i think that the standing committee on forests should be involved in this programme and take account of the coordination of forestry at eu level. future enlargement will also require improved coordination of forestry policy. there are major differences in the structure of forest ownership between the present and the new member states, and we in finland could actively offer expertise to the countries of central and eastern europe based on our experience, for example in promoting private forestry. amendment no 4, which emphasises the multiple uses of forests, is also welcome in my view. it is important, as is amendment no 15 on respect for the subsidiarity principle, because it highlights the diversity of forests and our regional and climatic conditions. this action plan rightly supports the national forestry policies of the member states, taking into account the ecological characteristics of the outermost regions of the eu. we must continue to emphasize the priority of national measures and forestry guidelines. i believe that the creation of standards and regulations for forest management should remain a matter for each member state to decide. in this respect, i would like to echo the views of mr wachtmeister, who said that the responsibility for the sustainable use of forests and decision-making in forestry matters lies first and foremost with the forest owner.
(fi) mr president, the commission's proposal for a directive on bathing water quality improves the present situation, as has been said here, but it still has problems. the question is how we take account of the fact that bathing waters and bathing opportunities vary in different parts of europe. the commission proposal would make a bathing site compliant with this directive when it is visited by a significant number of people. it has already been said here that it is rather difficult to say which is a considerable amount: a considerable amount where there are a lot of people, or a considerable amount where there are, for example, twenty kilometres of coastline per inhabitant and river rights. how do you define a bathing area and ensure that measurements and water quality management do not become too bureaucratic? my friend torben lund has said that it is ridiculous that a proposal which defines a swimming pool according to the number of people who swim in it should be defined by the authorities as a swimming pool. i think it is equally ridiculous that the commission should take finland to court for not measuring a beach that everyone knows is clean, even with excellent water quality, precisely because of the problems involved in defining a swimming pool. i hope that this directive will bring about this flexibility in the right way, but at the same time i hope that these issues of public health of european citizens will be taken very seriously in this directive.
(fi) mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr guido saccon for his excellent cooperation in the preparation of the report now before us. the fact that we can hopefully conclude the directive at first reading shows that the european union is serious about working to slow down climate change. the cooperation between the commission, the council and parliament has worked admirably, and i believe that mr saccon's personal contribution was significant. the kyoto protocol establishes obligations for parties to report emissions. the decision to report in the eu 10 years ago has been an important basis for reliably identifying negative emissions trends and creating a framework for reversing them. but it does not sufficiently meet the obligations of the kyoto protocol. the current reporting does not correspond in its breakdown and precision to the sectoral breakdown of the emissions trading directive adopted in the eu in the summer, for example. there have also been major shortcomings in the member states' activities, and the data not provided and incomplete data have had to be supplemented by calculations. the text now adopted will significantly improve the quality and accuracy of the reporting. at the same time, the intention is to rationalise the frequency of data transmission by separating annual and periodic reporting. in the so-called compromise package, it was agreed between the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs of parliament and the council that member states should establish national inventory systems to assess emissions of greenhouse gases by source from human activities as soon as possible and in any event by the end of 2005. compliance with the kyoto agreements both the setting of absolute targets and the monitoring of their achievement will of course depend to a large extent on how the inventory system is put into operation. it is of course regrettable that there are no guarantees that it will be available when the first initial allocation of emissions trading is carried out in the member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. i would like to make one small request in this connection: under the kyoto protocol, emissions in the first kyoto period are to be considered as an average over five years. i would also like to see the community, for example the european environment agency, publishing emission trends as a five-year average. this would provide, for example, a basis for estimating the distance of the community and the member states from the target for emissions due to annual variations in temperature and rainfall. the current practice gives rise to unbridled optimism and unbridled pessimism, which may be difficult for the general public to understand.
(fi) mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, marielle de sarnezi, for her excellent work with the erasmus mundus programme. we have achieved a result that is acceptable not only to parliament but also to the council. for once we are able to complete the legislative process for a multiannual programme before it is due to start. i hope that this exception will now become the rule for other programmes under the cultural committee's consideration. the european union is at present a much less attractive alternative for third country higher education students than the united states. the eu has about 100 000 fewer students than the us each year. i believe that in five years, when the erasmus mundus programme is in full swing, that number will have decreased. the programme aims to improve the quality of european higher education by attracting more students and skills to europe. we must remember, however, that we must not attract talent here at the expense of third countries. cooperation with universities in third countries is equally important in order to contribute to strengthening the status of higher education in all the countries participating in the programme. the ten new member states which will join the european union in seven months' time will have to be closely involved in the implementation of the erasmus mundus programme from the outset. as the external borders of the union change, it is important that we draw on the expertise that future member states already have in their cooperation relations with, for example, ukraine, belarus and moldova. i believe that the close involvement of the new member states in this programme will also contribute to their participation in the implementation of other eu education policy objectives. i am pleased with the outcome we have achieved on the linguistic aspect of the programme. while fostering linguistic diversity is one of the eu's fundamental values, the erasmus mundus programme is not aimed at language teaching. it is designed to increase the attractiveness of european higher education and i am therefore pleased with the formulation we have arrived at.
(fi) mr president, the union's previous training programmes are success stories because they are programmes on a human scale. the elearning programme under discussion will hopefully continue this series of success stories. the general objective of the programme is to improve the quality and accessibility of education systems through the use of information and communication technologies. i hope that teachers and pupils will play a major role in achieving this. if this is achieved, the programme's objectives will also be more likely to be achieved. the elearning programme is a good example of the potential of pilot projects to become a part of european union policy. the european parliament already backed the initiative to promote e-learning in 2001, and now we have a proposal for a five-year action programme. although we have not been able to raise the budget for the programme to the level we wanted, the rapporteur, mr mauro, can be very pleased with the work he has done. the elearning programme will focus on the operation of e-friendly schools. if the networking of friendship schools is really made to work, pupils from all over the eu will be able to get to know their peers and their daily lives. if successful, the programme can thus strengthen the idea of eu citizenship. e-learning offers new pedagogical models for teaching and learning. the development of virtual learning environments in schools is booming in europe, according to a study by the european school net. only one in three users of virtual learning environments uses commercial learning environments. it is very important that these individual efforts are made visible and also available to others. this elearning programme does not provide direct support, but hopefully we can also contribute to the development of content in the future.
(fi) mr president, the use of information and communication technologies increases productivity, changes working life, creates new opportunities for community, facilitates learning, improves quality and largely eliminates geographical differences. but the problem is this digital divide that's going to affect about a third of our population. they're not reachable by education, and they don't have machines. i therefore propose, mr commissioner, that the funds be given as directly as possible to the organizations of the disabled, the unemployed, the poor and the elderly, who can maintain training in their own area, since these people are not covered by training either. this is also a way of catching up with the hardware and hardware supply, because the digital divide is in fact a deepening social divide.
(fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank and congratulate mrs hermange on her excellent report. it is of the utmost importance that the hague convention on the protection and promotion of the rights of the child, which dates back to 1996, should be ratified by the remaining member states as soon as possible. the hague convention and, in particular, the regulation on the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and the matters of parental responsibility adopted by the member states of the european union at the beginning of the month, will bring considerable relief to disputes over custody within europe. in europe we have indeed acquired a tool which enables us to reach faster and more effective decisions in custody disputes and to avoid long, costly and difficult proceedings in international disputes which are painful for the child. we can really protect the peace of our children's growth. i am pleased and surprised at the great reception the regulation has received throughout europe. both the press and children's organizations have given us their full appreciation for our accomplishments. divorce is always traumatic for the child, if it is for the adult, and if it is followed by years of court proceedings, it can become quite unbearable. this regulation provides the eu for the first time with an instrument to avoid conflicts between the different laws of two different member states. we are not, of course, in a position to touch on the substance of the hague convention in this report by mrs hermange. i would therefore like to ask whether the commission and the council are aware that the biggest problems are, however, child custody disputes and abductions where one of the parents is from outside the eu and from a country which has not ratified the hague convention. we have all read in the afternoon papers sad examples of kidnappings that afflict parents as well as peers of kidnapped children. could the european union, for its part, contribute more effectively to the ratification of the hague convention? could the commission and the council seek to negotiate more bilateral agreements in order to get the hague convention signed by more countries? even better results would be achieved if we could also involve non-eu countries in this same arrangement, which now allows us to deal with intra-eu custody disputes.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the rapporteurs for the railway package, they have done a good job on this important matter. the rapporteurs have really put their minds to the matter, listened to the various experts and members of the committee, consulted, sought workable compromises, while remaining true to the main objective of improving the competitiveness, safety and interoperability of the railways. the proposal from the railway authority supports this overall approach. it is now important that the council does not put the brakes on the implementation of reforms. the development of the railways has been delayed for far too long. it is high time to create a competitive alternative to rail transport. the rationale for implementing the railway package has been put forward on several occasions. the development of railways can help to relieve road congestion and promote more environmentally friendly transport. the functioning of railways and affordable and competitive services are important for both congested areas and the export industry in the more remote regions. the opening up of competition in both freight and passenger transport will contribute to the development of rail transport. this must lead to a workable package with a clear timetable for opening up passenger transport to competition. progress in technical compatibility and safety standards and other provisions must be made to enable trains to travel across europe quickly and safely, offering a competitive alternative for both freight and passenger transport. mr sterckx's aim of a high level of rail safety will certainly have the support of all. the role of the member states in the adoption of national rules is also important. they must not slow down the process of developing a long-term vision and member states must obtain the commission's approval of new national rules. it is also important for safety that the trains are equipped with a black box and that the data collected by the device and the processing of the data are uniform. the main task of the agency will be to promote best practice and facilitate cooperation between railway operators. the various railway operators must be involved in the activities of the agency, but not every member state may be represented on the management board. however, the agency's activities shall take account of the different circumstances prevailing in the member states.
(fi) mr president, first of all i would like to thank the drafters of the budget, mrs neena gill and mr jan mulder, for their excellent and constructive work. my own liberal group is proud that our member jan mulder is the rapporteur-general. we would like to thank the ppe-de group in particular, with whom we reached a political agreement on this at the beginning of this parliamentary term. i would also like to pay tribute to the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr terence wynn, and to the commissioner responsible for the budget, mr michaele schreyer, for their friendly and competent cooperation. next year's budget will be historic, as it will be drawn up for the first time for a union of 25 member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, the budget is drawn up on an operational basis. this has been a longstanding, consistent demand of the liberal group. this will allow us to monitor more closely the costs of the different policies and the relationship between administrative expenditure and operational expenditure, as well as the efficiency of operations. this is a major reform, which at the same time emphasises personal responsibility and lays the foundations for future action-oriented management in the commission. the report, which has been dealt with by the committee on budgets, contains many points of emphasis. i want to mention a few. in the agricultural sector, the committee set aside export refunds for live bovine animals as its own budget line. this will help us better monitor this controversial activity. i think it is particularly important to have a budget line which provides for the development of labelled vaccines. the european union has so far had the principle that animals are not vaccinated against diseases such as foot-and-mouth disease, because it is not possible to distinguish whether the resistance is due to a mild infection or to vaccines. however, it is clear that in order to achieve a sustainable control of animal diseases, vaccines must also be used. the appropriations for rural development are above the ceiling. our group cannot support this amendment tabled by the pse group because it is not in line with good governance. in addition, it is questionable whether these funds could be used, since the corresponding financial regulations are already in force. we believe that it is essential to increase the payment appropriations for the structural funds sufficiently so that the unpaid commitments, the rals, do not grow out of control, as they have been so far. the most important problem in the draft budget concerns the reconstruction of iraq. our group cannot support the ppe-de group's proposal to provide eur 500 million for the reconstruction of iraq. instead, we are prepared to support additional funding of some eur 200 million on top of the eur 100 million allocated to humanitarian aid. however, we believe that the bulk of this, some eur 100 million, should be financed by the flexibility instrument, otherwise parliament's priorities would be jeopardised. there is a dispute within parliament about the subsidies earmarked for ngos and organisations. the liberal group strongly supports the removal of these earmarks, as they are contrary to the current financial regulation. it's a kind of pet system, after all. we do not think that the european parliament is a committee or an office which deals with aid notifications. that's why we have to get rid of this system. these comments are in support of the mulder and gill reports.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, on behalf of my group i have followed closely the work of the rapporteurs on the budget, jan mulder and neena gill. i thank them for their diligence and for the transparency of their work, even though our conclusions for next year's budget are not the same in all respects. our group would have liked mr mulder to have voted against our group in heading 4 of the forthcoming budget, so that our proposal for appropriations for palestine and east timor could have been accepted. the difficult problems of the middle east have been too little addressed in next year's budget. the commission's proposal to make a budgetary allocation to start supporting european political parties from parliament's resources is not shared by all in our group. many in our group feel that european aid is diminishing democracy rather than increasing it. in this way, the big parties in the big countries can subdue the small parties in the small countries. i would point out that the council removed from the party statutes the clause that the european party should not finance the activities of national parties in national elections. now it is, and this is how european taxpayers' money is going to be used for national electoral propaganda. we are, however, in favour of the ideas put forward by mrs gill in the committee on the need to improve the efficiency of the european parliament's own work. for example, the budgetary implications of this year's parliament's car service must be carefully examined and a new system of reimbursement of the cost of taxi services cannot be introduced next year without a decision being taken in plenary. the european parliament must also make a determined effort to adopt the statute for members of the european parliament, so that travel allowances for irregular reasons can be abolished. the most serious criticism of our group is the 500 million euro allocation for the reconstruction of iraq, which was voted in the european people's party committee in next year's budget. it's not solidarity aid for iraq. it's solidarity aid for the united states. the european right seems to be lying on its back in front of the united states. it wants to contribute to the costs of the us oil war in a way that far exceeds the 200 million euro aid requested by the commission. the right-wing wants to use eu citizens' tax money to support the illegal us war, the illegal us occupation regime and the us puppet government established in iraq. our group is ready to discuss the commission's proposals for aid to iraq, but we reject outright the political handshake by the european people's party to president bush and his war coalition. the other members of our group will be taking a stand on the problems of the structural funds.
(fi) mr president, i would ask the commissioner whether, in the context of this study on the development of the rules on meat products, it is possible to examine these restrictions on the separation of meat and meat products by machinery. for example, in the case of poultry, this restriction, which prohibits the mechanical separation of meat and bones, sounds rather crazy; of course, i understand that this is necessary in the case of beef to prevent the spread of bse. i have heard that the commission is planning to introduce such a ban also for poultry, which would impose significant financial costs on, among other things, broiler production, and it cannot be considered reasonable that the mechanical separation of meat and bones from poultry should also be totally prohibited. can you tell us whether the commission will be preparing a communication to deal more broadly with the provisions on these meat products?
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism (fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur, mr pittella, for his fundamental work on this important subject. i am pleased to note that the report takes a very similar line to that of the committee on regional policy on the problem of unpaid structural funds. many of the points in our committee's opinion have also been incorporated in the report. the rapporteur, mr pittella, has taken account of the factors affecting the system, has dealt critically with the problematic issues and has put forward solutions to delays. i think the most important of these is to simplify and clarify the system. the structural funds have accumulated a worrying amount of repayments. the main method for controlling this development in the current period is the n+2 rule. the rapporteur has found a sufficiently rigorous and balanced approach to its application. the application of the n+2 rule is now in the first real test, with the requested payments being received by the commission by the end of the year and the amount of them being seen. the commission's monitoring systems and reporting to parliament need to be developed. one problem is the weakness of the member states' forecasts of the demand for payments. in a fragmented system, member states have a major responsibility for the functioning of the whole. in regional policy, it is time to move from the debate on payment to the debate on the quality and effectiveness of measures. we'll have some more material when we get the data from the midterm evaluations. in particular, the quality and performance discussion must take place at regional level in the monitoring committees. more results and less bureaucracy are the guiding principles for a better regional policy.
mr president, mr president of the commission! it has been said that this summit was also full of so-called decisions. i wonder how the citizens of europe feel about an organisation which, meeting after meeting, continues to take decisions which the heads of state do not even get their own ministers to follow. is there a cost-benefit ratio? berlusconi, you had an opportunity to stop these pointless resolutions from the summits and i regret that you did not. i would also like to stress that i have criticised previous presidencies for this. i believe that it is important to reform summits fundamentally in order to restore the citizens' confidence in the union and its institutions. mr berlusconi, you stressed the christian values in your speech. one of the christian values that i believe everyone, regardless of denomination, should profess is to alleviate suffering as much as possible. i am therefore concerned about the many attempts to stop new genetic engineering research using all kinds of stem cells. to promote that research is to reduce suffering.
(fi) mr president, the implementation of the eu's common foreign and security policy must be translated from words into action. the current intergovernmental conference must create the structures which will enable effective decision-making and action. the secretary-general of the council, mr solana, deserves our support in shaping the strategy on which the union's foreign and security policy is based. the creation of a zone of well-managed neighbours at the union's external borders is central to this. the commission's initiative on the new neighbourhood policy is currently being examined by parliament. it is positive that the new members are actively involved in the development of the wider europe initiative. we need their expertise and vision in developing relations with russia, ukraine, belarus and moldova. the proposals for a common foreign and security policy under consideration by the jcc are a logical follow-up to the decisions of the helsinki summit on improving the eu's crisis management capabilities. however, it must be said that we are still a long way from a situation in which the eu can provide military guarantees for its member states. there is no reason to be negative about the fact that some member states are progressing more rapidly than others in defence cooperation. at the same time, it is essential to ensure that enhanced cooperation is open to all. in the brok report we support the creation of an international system based on multilateralism. the strengthening of the un's position is a key issue. i am pleased that my own socialist group is now particularly committed to improving the capacity of the un to function. the eu is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. after the disagreements over the iraq war, we must now look ahead.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am grateful to the report for its emphasis on balance and democratic governance in the neighbouring regions. i would add that only the establishment of civil society will lay the foundations for democracy and security. stability is created by sharing power and justice, which is why it's hard. it is, of course, appropriate to emphasize the role of the un in international conflicts. high-tech nations can attack anywhere, and they have, and they have done so with a certain recklessness. so they may or we may create crises instead of solutions. the idea of a closed defense system is strange, confusing, even frightening. what particular insecurity has arisen in countries neighbouring other eu countries? in my own country, there is no perceived security gap, even though we have a border with russia of over a thousand kilometres, and there are thirty times as many russians as finns across the border. it is clear that defence cooperation must be open to all those who wish to participate, as was the case with the economic and monetary union. our starting point for international problems should be civilian crisis management.
(fi) mr president, russia is already the most important of the union's neighbours: our common border of 1200 km will double in size as the union expands to include the baltic states. russia is still economically modest, with a gdp slightly above that of the netherlands, but its economic potential is arguably enormous. the union has already stepped up its energy cooperation with russia, as we heard the commissioner say, which is essential if we are to replace the depleted energy resources of the north sea and avoid becoming exclusively dependent on the energy resources of the middle east. but russia's vast forest resources, together with its precious and non-precious metal reserves, such as those in siberia, will also be one of the foundations of its rise in the coming decades, the other being its high level of science and expertise. the european people's party and the european democrats consider russia to be our most important neighbour now and in the future, whatever geographical explanation neighbourhood cooperation may have. we believe that the union must use all the economic and scientific means at its disposal to help russia to develop a stable market economy, to develop democracy and to establish the rule of law, since a different russia, still a nuclear power, would also be the greatest potential threat to the union's security. russia and the rest of europe are bound by fate. "there is no great europe without russia and no great russia without europe" was the slogan of our party and the working group of the russian progressive forces, led by the current president of the french republic, mr chirac, as early as the beginning of the 1990s. however, our efforts to cooperate with russia must not obscure the fact that we are already calling for better respect for human rights and freedom of expression in russia. this is not just chechnya, but also and above all the chechen region and the continuing war and destruction in chechnya. no conflict can be resolved by arms but by political decisions, as the united states may well see in iraq and afghanistan. we therefore call on russia to show a much greater degree of political initiative, openness and to use international organisations to find solutions to the still open problems in chechnya, as commissioner patten also said here in his speech on security issues in the region. mr president, the recent elections and referendums have not convinced us of their fairness. the democracy of appearances is born to hide the truth, not to reveal it. i think that the council's view of the positive developments which mr frattini has presented is not entirely accurate, and we have seen the clear nuances in the statements made here by commissioner patten and the president of the council.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, relations between the european union and russia have developed, but not sufficiently. it is worth remembering that almost 40% of russian exports go to the european union, 6% to the united states. it is now estimated that after enlargement imports will rise to 60%. at the same time, the union's dependence on russian resources is growing - as is likely to happen, for example, with natural gas in the coming decade. also, economic growth is currently the fastest in the world in russia. the russian president, who is campaigning for the presidency, has set two goals: first, to create a strong central government with principles of legality, and second, to ensure that economic growth is passed on to the vast majority of russia's poor. it is in the european union's interest that russia is able to solve major problems, ranging from widespread poverty to human rights, freedom of the media and the war in chechnya. we want to see that through economic, political and cultural cooperation we can also influence russia's problems. we've also tried to isolate russia. it was a gift to stalin, who put curtains on the windows and started to slaughter his own people. it is now important that we support russian civil society at its core. this is exactly what many russians want from us. we can't leave them alone! they estimate that the russian leadership often listens better to messages from the union than to themselves. it is for these purposes that russia should become a member of the wto as soon as possible. the partnership and cooperation agreement must be renewed to meet the needs of today. i would say that the elections in chechnya were problematic, as they have been in the past, and the community could not accept them. we propose an international conference and mediation on this matter, and also the rapid access of aid organizations.
(fi) mr president, the biggest single project between the eu and russia is the creation of a common european economic area. it has been difficult to put it into practice, as it was a bilateral project between the eu and russia. at the same time, both sides have developed their cooperation relations with other countries. russia has thus recently concluded an agreement with ukraine, belarus and kazakhstan on the establishment of a common economic area. the eu has its own separate contractual arrangements with these states. i think it would be wise to try to bring these cooperation arrangements together by forming a wider multilateral economic cooperation area, which would include not only the eu and russia but also ukraine, belarus and kazakhstan and other willing nic states. where appropriate, the model could be taken from the european economic area, which has been established between the eu and the efta countries. such an agreement would fit well into the eu's evolving broader european policy. the eu's new policy for a wider europe also offers opportunities for developing crossborder cooperation along the eu-russia border. the commission's proposal for a new financial instrument for neighbourhood cooperation will remove the problems we have had in coordinating internal and external financial systems. the russian authorities should be informed in good time of the new financing system in order to ensure its functioning from the outset. finally, i would like to congratulate the russian government on its efforts to ensure that human rights are respected in chechnya and to do all it can to find a peaceful solution to the problems in this region.
(fi) mr president, one of the great historical tensions of our time is the struggle between state sovereignty and universal human rights. the traditional power of the sovereign ruler is manifested above all in the right to decide over the lives and property of his subjects. even in the era of nation states, we have not been able to get rid of two persistent and profound violations of fundamental human rights, namely the death penalty and widespread torture. it is good that the european union, whose own external sovereignty is very weak, has focused on removing these two serious flaws in the core area of its foreign policy, namely human rights, especially now that the idea of armed security is dominating the formation of the new world order, and at the same time violence against its own citizens is becoming alarmingly proportional. a state that kills and tortures should never have international legitimacy. the question of the fate of the un system is the contradiction i mentioned at the outset. human rights have been considered a special strength of the world organization, but at the same time its charter is firmly anchored in the idea of sovereignty. it is thus at the intersection of two eras and two different political worldviews. i believe that the time is now ripe to take this step into the future and to make every effort to achieve a comprehensive moratorium on the death penalty throughout the world as an intermediate step towards its abolition once and for all. there are diplomatic and other risks involved in this project, but the goal is worth taking.
(fi) mr president, at the moment there is an expert unit in finland with a few officials in the field of border control. if this joint border guard office is located outside finland, is it intended that this finnish expert unit will also be relocated to this final location? so does the council have any plans at this stage as to what will happen to the expert unit on border control currently operating in finland?
- (sv) mr president, i think it is a good principle to try to avoid a lot of work and confusion. i think the members present in the assembly are representative. therefore, i propose that the vote be taken immediately on the dismissal of a committee.
(fi) mr president, the igc has not remained merely a puppet of the preparatory committee, as was initially feared in the governments and greatly hoped for here in parliament, and this igc has shown itself to be a real igc. however, it is important that the basic ideas of the preparatory commission are not overturned in the work of the jrc. the quality of the result is the most important thing in the cfp, and not the timing of the work. at this point, it is obvious that there are problems with the practical timetable. the cfsp is only about five weeks away and things have not moved forward at the pace that is needed. the majority of the cases where agreement has been reached are also bad luck compared with the balanced presentation of the preparatory committee. i am referring to the burial of the legislative council, for example. the weighting of votes proposed by the preparatory commission must be maintained; it is, in my view, a reasonable compromise for both large and small countries. the complex weighting of votes in the nice treaty and its abandonment are essential if eu decision-making is not to be paralysed. it should be remembered that the large member states were met in the preparatory committee by agreeing that three-fifths of the eu's citizens would be needed to back the decision. at the same time, however, it was ensured that a few large member states, such as the mediterranean power bloc, could not, by joining forces, achieve the qualified minority needed to block decisions. the proposals by spain and poland to alter the balance of power between the governments of the member states must be rejected. if the draft resolution of the committee of the regions needs to be pushed in one direction, it should be pushed in the other direction, towards a 50/50 model, whereby decisions are required to be taken by half the member states and half the population. the guarantee of a commissioner with a single vote for each member state will continue to be implemented. the scares and allegations of an oversized and paralysed commission and of inaction by commissioners were greatly exaggerated. there is a job for 25 commissioners and a lot of interesting subjects to cover. moreover, by organizing work and tasks rationally and by allowing a hierarchy based on varying degrees and equal rotation, the power of practical action is obtained, if necessary.
the rapporteur. (fi) mr president, madam commissioner, i regret that i cannot really defend my report on support for transeuropean networks in the cultural sector. my key proposals narrowly lost the committee vote. i hope that parliament will be able to correct the situation in the vote tomorrow, especially since the committee's proposal to continue the so-called earmarking in the funding of cultural organisations is, according to the opinion of parliament's legal service, clearly contrary to the financial regulation. i am shocked that there is a strong tendency in the committee on budgets to act contrary to the financial regulation. until now, i have on many occasions defended to the citizens the action of the union as being based on the law and not on the stronger law. now i don't know what to say. the commission's proposal for a community action programme to support cultural organisations has been born of necessity, that is to say, it has been made necessary by the transition to an activity-based budget. european cultural organisations previously funded under category a of administrative expenditure need a legal basis to continue their funding. the change gives us a unique opportunity to create an action programme for the transeuropean networks in the cultural sector, defining the criteria for funding and organising the possibility of networks receiving eu support as defined in title vi of the financial regulation. it emphasises, among other things, the principles of transparency and equal treatment. the commission proposal covers not only the cultural organisations operating at european level, which were previously financed under budget heading a-3042, but also the european office for minority languages and the mercator network centres, which were financed under budget heading a-3015, and the grants under budget heading a-3035 for the protection of nazi concentration camps as historical monuments. in this context, it should be stressed that the problems raised in the report do not concern them, but that the most important thing for the financing of the office for minority languages and the concentration camp memorials is that the legal basis should be in place from the beginning of the year. we talked about the urgency here, but i think that if we want to, we have a chance to get results quickly. the disagreements over the funding of cultural organisations relate to three points. firstly, there is a contrast between the application procedure and the earmark made by parliament. the second is the length of the programme. since the unanimous decision of the cultural council, as far as i am aware, is absolutely in favour of extending the programme to 2006 instead of 2008, i have tabled an amendment to that effect. i think it is a very good idea to include the funding of cultural organisations in the new cultural programme which is being prepared. the third problem concerns the degressivity of the aid rates. i also disagree with the majority of the committee on that. a small gradual reduction is acceptable in my view, so that room can also be made for new organizations. we must bear in mind, among other things, the enlargement of the eu. the amendments i tabled also include a proposal to allow the list decided on by the committee on budgets to be implemented next year, due to time constraints. this ensures the necessary continuity. the 2005 application procedure could then be launched in good time at the beginning of next year. i also propose the possibility of multiannual funding and, among other things, a safeguarding addition to the funding criteria for european orchestras, proposals which were also rejected in the committee's vote, although they are clearly in the interests of cultural organisations. the commission's handling of the proposal so far has been a rich experience in many ways, but not in all of them a stimulating one. in defending the open call, i wanted to change the current practice, which is partly arbitrary and haphazard, into one based on open and clear rules. even now, our list contains organizations which do not really exist any more. the division of labour between the institutions must also be borne in mind: the commission makes proposals and implements the will of the legislator. parliament is the legislator and i do not think it should try to exercise executive power. when the draft eu constitution makes parliament the primary legislator, parliament itself must value that role.
(fi) mr president, it seems that these expressions of support from the political groups are in conflict with the times. i support mrs honeyball's excellent report on the taxation of cars. i welcome the commission's communication and hope that the commission will soon reform the european car tax. as my colleague ari vatanen has already expertly described, the current situation, where a key durable good such as the car is one of the most difficult to move within the union, is completely unsustainable. the considerable obstacles to the transfer of a car from one member state to another are still due to the differences in tax legislation and inflexible administrative practices. in the field of motor vehicle taxation, citizens of the union are in a completely unequal position depending on their country of residence. the commission's proposal to abolish the registration tax could be a solution to most tax problems and should be implemented as soon as possible. it should be noted, however, that the european parliament has previously supported the commission's proposals for the elimination of double taxation, but the council has still not adopted them. the council should seriously consider what is ultimately in the interests of the citizens of the union in these matters. secondly, the focus of the taxation of motor vehicles must shift away from ownership. in many northern member states, such as finland, the purchase of a new ordinary family car is shockingly expensive, due to the registration tax. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the road network is not affected by the accident. for this reason, and also for reasons of road safety, the taxation of cars should rather be shifted to taxation of use. but the taxation of use must also be reasonable and the overall tax burden on motor vehicles must not be too great. this is particularly important in sparsely populated areas such as the north, finland and sweden, where the car is often the only means of transport available, with very limited public transport. for the same reason, i am also not in favour of abolishing the preferential tax treatment for diesel fuel. the removal of the diesel tax advantage would impose significant costs on the peripheral regions of the union, which are already suffering from long distances, and the latest studies show that diesel cars emit significantly less co2 than petrol cars. this was also referred to by mr schmidt of the eldr group. however, emissions from passenger cars are a significant source of greenhouse gas emissions and therefore it is necessary to act in such a way that, where possible, consumers are guided to choose products that are environmentally sustainable and cost-effective. for example, the taxation of fuels should take account of environmental friendliness by reducing the taxation of such fuels. in the case of taxation of cars, environmental friendliness can also be taken into account either in the form of reductions in potential user charges or tax relief for eco-friendly accessories. i also welcome mrs honeyball's proposal for tax relief for safety equipment. this promotion of safe, environmentally friendly and consumer-friendly vehicles and their use in the union is welcome.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much, mrs dybkjær, for this report, which is extremely timely and important. we all share the concern about what the gender balance will be in the next legislative period in the european parliament. we have six months to work hard to alleviate this concern and we must not be afraid. equality is one of the fundamental european values that the new member states have also committed themselves to respect. there can be no genuine democracy if women are not allowed to participate in decision-making at all levels. the fact is that the creation of a pluralistic parliamentary democracy is not enough on its own to guarantee equal participation of women and men in political decision-making. the whole problem could have been solved by developing a common european electoral law guaranteeing gender equality. women politicians must be made strong professionals in their fields through training and financial and moral support. in that case, the arguments of low competence of quota women compared to their male colleagues would be lost as unfounded. the aim of a gender-equal society is to achieve decision-making without a gender quota, with the uppermost decision-making bodies being shared by gender. however, it does not seem that this would be achieved without an intermediate stage, involving joint action by the eu, the member states and the parties for equality. political parties should agree on common policies which will eventually lead to the realization of equality in economic, political and social life. i would now like to challenge the male colleagues in the european parliament to ask themselves if they have ever voted for a woman. and if you are also influential in the politics of your own country, will you nominate a woman for commissioner? and when the presidency of the eu is in place, who is the woman you will vote for?
(fi) mr president, i share the concern expressed in mrs dybkjær's excellent report about the underrepresentation of women in the european parliament. it is already a sad fact that, as i look around, there are very few women here, especially young women with families. as many have pointed out, the situation seems even more alarming in the light of the statistics for next year's post-enlargement elections. the percentage of women in the national parliaments of the new member states is at best no more than 30%, and in more than half of the new member states the proportion of women in parliament is closer to 10%. it is important to remember that there is room for improvement in the present member states, including my own country, finland, which can nevertheless be considered one of the pioneers in the field of equality between women and men. why not vote for women when more than half of the voters are women? the report identifies constituency parties and electoral mechanisms as the only ways in which women are underrepresented. systems such as the finnish electoral system have guaranteed equal representation of women and men. here in the european parliament, almost half of the finnish delegation is female, so i think there is nothing wrong with the system. instead of long and hierarchical party lists, the finnish electoral system votes for both the candidate and the party, and in practice the european parliament elections have largely been elections of individuals, in which candidates are given priority over parties. under these circumstances, women have done well. of course, traditions and electoral culture also have their effect. but this shows that women will be voted in if they run for office. but why are young women in particular not interested in politics? why are women not being made more involved in the exercise of power? these are questions that i think also give rise to self-examination. why not the eu? women often find eu decision-making too distant, abstract and high-flying. women are the heroes of the day, eager to get down to the nitty-gritty. working conditions are often difficult, especially for women with families. i myself have noticed, as i am expecting my first child, how difficult it has become to combine motherhood and the career of a member of parliament. the eu's maternity rights regulations are directly oppressive to young women. maternity leave is not well known, and in parliament, for example, it is equated with sick leave. there is a lot of room for improvement here and this situation is reflected in the employment situation in europe as a whole. women are not sufficiently encouraged to pursue careers and start families, which leads many women to deliberately delay having children. the message the eu is sending must not be one of career or motherhood.
the rapporteur. (fi) mr president, i urge the house to accept this amendment. the legal service of the parliament has stated that the 'ear tag' of cultural organisations is clearly contrary to the financial regulation. this proposal allows for a smooth transition period, i.e. earmarking, for next year.
mr president, commissioner, friends, i would like to thank you for your kind words. about two years ago, reports circulated that roma women were being sterilized against their will in eastern europe, especially in slovakia. on 17 october 2003, alvaro gil-robles, commissioner for human rights of the council of europe, published a recommendation on 'certain aspects of law and practice relating to sterilization of women in the slovak republic'. the recommendation states that although there has been no organized policy in this area, there have been cases of women being sterilized against their will. in march 2002 i put a question to the commission on this, which promised to follow up the case and bring it up with slovakia if it found evidence that such forced sterilisation had indeed taken place. now gil-robles, the council of europe's commissioner for human rights, has published this evidence and i ask the commission to keep its promise. we cannot have a union where the most basic thing is not respected: the right of every person to his or her own life. i hope that all those who later in the debate will be discussing matters of life and death will also be thinking about this aspect. we cannot accept that in a union.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european year of the disabled is coming to an end and it is time to sum up the results. what do we see? can a year really change a day? have we been able to achieve something concrete to influence the daily life and quality of life of people with disabilities? i would hope that this year would leave a lasting impact on the daily lives of at least some of the disabled. a good example would be assistance dogs throughout the union, which, in addition to technical and information technology aids, provide the visually, hearing and mobility impaired with additional social, educational and professional space. i take this opportunity to thank commissioner diamantopoulou for his sincere interest and encouragement in this matter and i hope that it will be further developed and extended to the new member states, possibly with eu funding. however, the main issue is how to integrate accessibility, non-discrimination and full citizenship rights for disabled people into policy at all levels. we are also making larger plans for the future at this very moment. i am involved in negotiating the proposals for directives on public procurement, and two important issues are now being resolved with regard to the disabled and the realisation of their civil rights. to what extent can the special needs of disabled people be taken into account in the design of buildings and other physical environments and in the development of transport and other services? another important issue is the criteria for production methods, which are still open. i think it is also a matter of democracy. these two directives are important in determining the actual extent of the municipal decisionmaking power. the new draft constitution also contains the danger of opening up health care and other social services to competition. what then of the special needs of the disabled?
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? i wrote the draft opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. however, since the majority in that committee is different from the majority in parliament and the right wing is overrepresented, the opinion took a form which i could not accept. that's why i didn't want my name on it. my legal analysis is completely different from that presented by the committee chairman, mr gargani. firstly, there are no obstacles to this research under the oviedo convention. secondly, i have to say that gargani's analysis of what the research programmes legally mean was also completely irrelevant. it was very far from the truth. i also note in my proposal that the european group on ethics, which we and the commission can use, has not ruled out embryonic stem cell research. what's the point of having a panel of advisors if we don't listen to them? for me, as for many others, the most important ethical issue is to reduce human suffering. we can do that if we try to work together in regulated and open forms and do what many speakers have said to reduce the suffering of diseases like alzheimer's and parkinson's. we must have public funding and the funding must be european so that the results can be made available to all europeans. i would, however, have liked to see the time limit in the commission's proposal removed. it's not ethically motivated. i welcome the committee's amendment 11 to remove the requirement that all alternative methods must have been examined. such a demand would leave room for a very wide margin of discretion, and i support what plooij-van gorsel, bowe and others have said.
(fi) mr president, the debate on the use of stem cells in research must be directed to the real issues, away from emotional arguments. talking about life and death distorts reality. stem cell research is a matter of life and death, since it can save countless lives each year. for this reason, eu funding should continue to be directed towards stem cell research. as the commission proposal states, stem cell research is expected to make a significant contribution to the development of therapeutic approaches in several medical fields. this is particularly true for the treatment of various degenerative diseases such as alzheimer's and parkinson's, but also for the treatment of more common diseases such as diabetes, which are exploding. the key to europe's future success as a user of stem cells is to allocate sufficient funds for basic stem cell research and to allow funding for research using embryonic stem cells from the sixth framework programme for research. this will ensure that research in this field progresses within a regulated framework and that european researchers and ultimately patient groups benefit from new knowledge and expertise in this field without delay. if the use of stem cells is not allowed under the constitutions of some eu countries, it must not prevent research and the benefits that can be derived from it in other eu countries. i'm against artificial time limits. it is wrong to set dates before and after which stem cells can be used. of course, we must respect ethical principles and technical safeguards, but, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about cells that will be destroyed in any case. but here too, reason must be used.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there is talk here and there of data from stockholm and sweden on how many stem cell lines there are. i wonder about the date of the reply liese has received. a lot has happened since 2002. i've received a reply from the karolinska institute that they only have three characterized stem cell lines at their disposal at this time. that's a lot less. i hope that the commission here will make a distinction according to the date.
(fi) mr president, i would like to thank mr linkohr warmly for his meritorious work on this important matter. the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy agrees that research funding in the eu needs to be increased substantially and on a rapid schedule. it is therefore good to present and put on the table, on the threshold of such enlargement, clear figures in addition to beautiful words. the final amount of the seventh framework programme must be eur 30 billion. less rainfall doesn't bring the same benefits. one of europe's weaknesses has been the insufficient participation of smes in research. there is also a statistical fallacy involved. the most important tool in europe to achieve the 3% target is the enterprise, and in particular smes. at present, there is a lot of innovative work being done by companies that is not statistically recognised as r & d work at all and cannot even be supported by the various public support instruments. this is because of the ambiguity of the concept of innovation, the ambiguity of the rules of the game and the consequent uncertainty about fairness. this is why this area needs to be improved, as smes are often particularly innovative. smes are also behind all the growth and jobs. market-oriented research for the benefit of smes should be promoted through specific funding. however, the forms of public intervention, whether fiscal incentives or direct aid, must not affect the types of aid to be covered or the intensity of aid allowed. the member states must remain free to consider their own policies in such a way that the rules of competition policy which are the community's responsibility are instrument-neutral. the establishment of the european research council would strengthen the position of scientific excellence in basic research in europe in global competition. this would be done in particular by providing long-term funding at european level. ensure that the european research council is provided with adequate resources, not out of the current budget, but in addition to the existing research funding. it is also important that the commission should increase and clarify information on the forms of public research support which do not distort competition. the commission's efforts to review and clarify the community's state aid system for r & d and to orient state aid towards horizontal objectives are very welcome and important objectives.
(fi) mr president, i would like to thank both my colleagues for their well-deserved work in this area. i shall now concentrate on the report by mr clegg. the commission is calling for the new european regulatory framework to be implemented swiftly in all member states. clegg rightly criticised the member states for not doing enough to transpose the new package, despite pressure from the commission and industry. if europe wants to create a genuine internal market also for the telecommunications sector, it is particularly important that we ensure the implementation of harmonised legislation. we have to stick to what we've decided. in the current situation, it is dangerous to start proposing new market-corrective measures before the telecommunications package has even been implemented. the fact that eight member states have not yet adopted the package is a scandal. paragraph 34 of mr clegg's report is not correct in this situation, because it is in my view contrary to the universal service directive. can operators pay for such infrastructure upgrades? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted by the introduction of new public service obligations or by the introduction of monopoly concepts which are not clear, but which are strangely linked to a business concept which may be quite interesting, namely the european service network. the whole ict sector needs to be regulated until the market is fully competitive. it's fair to all of us. thus, new service concepts are born in a commercially competitive market where business developers who are knowledgeable in their field are sure to do a good job. it is a european innovation. let's do our own work, too, make laws that stick.
commission. madam president, on 27 october 2003, after more than six years of negotiation, the council adopted the energy tax directive. that directive includes some aspects of the commercial diesel proposal and notably it gives member states the possibility to apply differential tax rates to commercial diesel and non-commercial diesel. however, the energy tax directive is still based on the principle of minimum rates only. hence, it does not remedy the problem of distortion of competition on road haulage markets, which stems from the significant differences in diesel taxation in the member states. only harmonisation, or at least a greater approximation, of commercial diesel taxation will put an end to those distortions of competition. three parliamentary committees, the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, and the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism have broadly supported the commission's proposals for that reason. however, the debates in the committee on economic and monetary affairs have also shown that there is wide recognition of the existence of such distortions. however, that committee does not share the views of the commission on the need and the means to reduce those distortions of competition. i recall that, according to article 93 of the treaty, provisions for the harmonisation of legislation concerning excise duties must be adopted to the extent that such harmonisation is necessary to ensure the establishment and proper functioning of the internal market. it is clear that the distortions of competition resulting from the very significant differences in excise duties applied to diesel by the member states are a threat to the functioning of the internal market. i would like to point out that the commission reacted positively to many amendments contemplated by the rapporteur of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and other members of parliament. in particular, the commission could in principle have accepted the following three items. firstly, the creation of an indexed fluctuation band for excise duties applicable to commercial diesel. such a fluctuation band could be considered a 'second best' if a harmonised rate for commercial diesel cannot be achieved. the second item is the alignment of the present proposal with the terms of the energy tax directive, in particular as far as the definition of commercial diesel and tax rates are concerned. third, there is the issue of the implementation of a refund system, as a practical tool for differentiating duties for commercial and non-commercial diesel. to my surprise, it appeared that these amendments were subsequently not considered by the committee on economic and monetary affairs to be sufficient to allow support for the commission's proposal. finally, the council, according to the minutes concerning the adoption of the energy tax directive, is clearly committed to pursuing its work on the commercial diesel proposal. for the reasons i have given, the commission is still convinced of the merits of this proposal. i would invite members of parliament to consider their position on this issue very carefully before the vote on it this week.
the rapporteur. (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i regret to say that i cannot agree with the commission's view that the time is ripe for this proposal to achieve full harmonisation of excise duties on diesel for professional use. my criticism is mainly directed at the following points: first of all, the justification for the proposal: is there really a problem? the commission has two main reasons for presenting its proposal: environmental protection and fair competition in the internal market. although i am a firm supporter of both aspects, i have my doubts as to whether the proposed proposal will have the desired effect. first, environmental impacts should be considered in a broader context. the environmental benefits of the proposal are questionable. the commission claims - citing evidence that can best be described as anecdotal - that trucks make extra runs to fill their large tanks in countries where excise duty and thus the price of fuel sold at the service station is lower. the proposal refers to a 1997 oecd study which showed that 20% of fuel sales in switzerland, for example, were linked to this type of 'bensaturism'. even if this figure were accepted, it is impossible to know whether it is a real substitution, i.e. that truck drivers do not fill their tanks before leaving the country of origin, or whether this is due to drivers making a detour to fill their fuel tanks in certain countries. i wonder whether this is really such a big problem that it merits such far-reaching action, complete harmonization, as the commission proposes. i am not at all convinced that it is even desirable to eliminate the differences in excise duties between the member states. i think that tax competition is very healthy, especially since the proposed attempt at harmonisation would lead to higher taxes in most member states. finally, as a person from a remote region of the union, i believe that regional aspects must also be taken into account. bensaturism is unlikely to affect scandinavian transport in the same way as it is said to affect german or belgian transport in the congested areas of the union. i think that the proposal has not been put forward in the right context. although it frequently refers to the ongoing dialogue on the new transport policy and to proposals for the introduction of infrastructure charges, there has been no real discussion of the interaction between the two initiatives. the commission has put forward concrete proposals on infrastructure charges and taxes, so it would have been better if these measures had been proposed simultaneously. otherwise, there is a clear risk of imposing disproportionate burdens on the transport sector, both in the form of higher diesel taxes and new infrastructure charges. although it is true that article 8e of the proposal refers to this problem, it applies only during the transitional period and only to goods vehicles weighing less than 16 tonnes. moreover, how would this proposal affect the new member states, some of which currently apply much lower taxes than those in the eu today? is it realistic to expect, as the commission proposes, that the harmonised tax rate will be applied to all 25 member states by 2012? i fear that substantial price increases in several of the new member states would impose such enormous economic burdens and increase inflation at a time when they are seeking to reduce their inflation levels in order to join emu that this development is not politically possible. moreover, the candidate countries have already done a great deal to adapt to the current minimum tax rate, and the relatively small increase envisaged in the energy tax directive may already cause difficulties for some countries. one reason why the commission is putting forward this rather complex proposal is to bring the tax rate on passenger cars quickly into line with that on unleaded petrol. the commission justifies this tax treatment on the basis of environmental considerations. it is necessary to consider the impact of the harmonisation of these rates on, for example, research and development in the field of diesel engines. it should also be borne in mind that european manufacturers are currently the market leaders in diesel technology in a competitive environment. the impact on the oil industry and refineries will also have to be considered, as the proposal is likely to reduce diesel consumption. finally, i would like to say that before the summer break i tried to amend this proposal so that it could be adopted by parliament. however, i have received only verbal assurances from the commission that this change, which parliament hopes for, will indeed be what the commission is pushing for in the council. it is very unsatisfactory that in the consultation procedure parliament has to either reject the proposal or give the commission a blank mandate in negotiations with the council. i therefore hope that in future the new treaty will allow for the co-decision procedure and qualified majority voting in tax matters, which will make it much easier for parliament to accept the commission's proposal with certain amendments and to come back to the matter at second reading.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has prepared an opinion. (fi) mr president, europe must intervene in the automotive sector if we are to meet our kyoto commitments. it would be short-sighted to pursue the kyoto targets at the expense of those who create jobs, unless we first make full use of the opportunities for reducing emissions from transport. the eu has already concluded agreements with european car manufacturers, for example, to produce cars that consume less fuel and pollute less. the directive under consideration is important in targeting the same demand side, by making the costs visible to consumers. it is a pity that the commission's proposal is so isolated. in order to be accepted, it should be seen in a broad context: within a decade, a pan-european tax system, including vehicle registration and user charges, a smart infrastructure pricing system and the harmonisation of fuel taxes, should be achieved. since such a comprehensive approach cannot be guaranteed at present and since this directive fixes the level of fuel taxation for a rather long period, it does not seem that a decision will be taken. the overall approach would serve consumers and ensure a balanced development of transport conditions in areas with low population density and no public transport. in rural and remote areas, people are more dependent on private cars and the external costs of transport are lower than in other areas. people tend to reassess their choices only when there are major changes, such as a change of residence or job or the purchase of a car, and significant developments in public services may not be perceived. therefore, large changes in directly observable costs, such as fuel prices or road pricing, are important triggers in the selection processes. in this sense, a linear model for raising fuel excise duties may be too flat and slow to enable consumers to make real discoveries that change their consumption habits. in any event, it is important to emphasise publicly from the outset the ultimate objective of including the external costs of transport in prices. diesel cars do consume less fuel and produce less carbon dioxide emissions, but they do have a lot of benefits. however, it must be remembered that diesel cars produce more nitrogen oxides and particulate matter emissions, which pose a serious public health risk. the harmonization of the excise duty rates for diesel and petrol can therefore be considered a legitimate objective.
the rapporteur. {\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\ i would hope that we could vote on this rejection before we go on to these amendments tabled in plenary. i would hope that this could be done, because i understand that there is a clear majority in both my group and in this house for this rejection, so it is useless for us to vote first on the amendments and then on this rejection, because this commission proposal is very likely to be rejected.
rapporteur. – mr president, of course i want to make an oral amendment if that is required. i want to make sure you understand that the committee on economic and monetary affairs was almost unanimous in its opinion that this proposal be rejected. that is why we should not have to vote on the amendments beforehand: we can vote on them if the proposal to reject does not get a majority.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to begin by thanking mrs miguélez ramos for the excellent preparation. safety is an important issue in maritime transport. i have been concerned that small vessels in national traffic, such as for example ships and coastal vessels, should not be subjected to very heavy administrative security measures. this has already been addressed in the committee and the amendments tabled will correct this. the second concern concerns the increasing cost of small and medium-sized ports. if various safety devices, fences and other investments have to be carried out in a very fast timetable, the prices of transport services will have to be increased and, as a result, ports will lose their competitiveness. i hope that these two points will be corrected in the vote and that these points will also be taken into account when the commission is interpreting the implementation of the directive.
(fi) mr president, i welcome the commission's proposal and thank mrs miguélez ramos for her well-written report. the commission proposal is particularly necessary to clarify the new international rules adopted last year within the imo. the tragic events of september 11 showed that any industry, any means of transportation, any building can be a target for a terrorist attack. preventive and protective action is also urgently needed in response to other threats to maritime security, such as piracy and acts of unlawful damage. it is important, however, that the eu does not rush to adopt regulations, but rather that it moderately adheres to the imo timetable already established, which is very strict and demanding in itself. in the current changing world situation, i see international cooperation as a priority for improving the safety of ships and ports and as a much better alternative to the unilateral measures introduced in the past. it is in the eu's own interest to act in multilateral systems, while strengthening them. cooperation with russia is also of particular importance. i share the commissioner's concern about the possible negative impact of unilateral security measures on trade. the unilateral container agreements concluded jointly by the united states and some european ports risk distorting competition. in this respect, i welcome the current negotiations between the commission and the usa to cover agreements on container security. the commission proposal does not differ much in content from the rules established by the imo, which are designed exclusively for international shipping. i therefore doubt that the same rules will be applied in the eu to transport within the member states. in view of the costs and other difficulties involved in complying with such security requirements, i do not see the need to go beyond the imo regulations. the decision on the application of the provisions to intra-community transport should in any event be left to the member states, which are best placed to assess the situation. it would be absurd, for example, if the inland waterway locks on the thousands of lakes in finland were subject to thorough security checks without any specific security threats.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, i would first like to thank mr jarzembowsk for his hard work on this matter. the compromise proposed is a cautious step towards opening up the market for port services and increasing transparency in ports. a compromise is not the best possible solution, but it is acceptable. the inclusion of exploration services in the scope of the directive is problematic, especially in areas sensitive to maritime safety and the environment. the compromise reached in the conciliation procedure is, however, acceptable in this respect. increasing the efficiency and competitiveness of ports as transport hubs is important for the development of the entire transport system in the union. opening up controlled, healthy competition and increasing transparency in ports will improve the competitiveness and efficiency of ports, which will increase combined transport and maritime transport. maritime transport is vital for overseas regions and offers a more environmentally friendly alternative to congested areas. this compromise is a cautious step in the right direction.
(fi) mr president, the commissioner said that the commission is very cautious in its approach to these reproductive health programmes. but how does the commission ensure that women in developing countries also have an important human right, the right to decide about their own bodies and the right to make choices also in relation to abortion? so how does the commission support ngos and their projects in developing countries which advocate such alternatives? i think it is very important that women in developing countries also have the right to abortion, the right to choose freely.
the rapporteur. (fi) mr president, mr president of the council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the security of information systems is a major concern and a topic of discussion in modern and vulnerable societies. electricity grids, water supply, traffic control, hospitals, all of these can be disrupted at any time, anywhere. this fall's bastel virus was perhaps the first to have business behind the destruction it caused. because hackers or crackers are the auxiliaries of the shady business, mostly porn, i guess. stealing sensitive information from ordinary people is also, of course, a crime when you think about it. the many violations of people's privacy can occur on a truly industrial scale. you gotta take it. the development of the online society is being held back by its increasing insecurity. last year, 75% of european companies had no information security strategy at all. less than 2% of it investment is invested in information security. in two out of three companies, information security is still not considered a strategic issue. the data protection act is due to enter into force in the member states in october. it means that no unsolicited e-mail may be sent without the express consent of the recipient. spam already accounts for over half of all email, for many more than 90 percent, as it does for many of us in this room. the credibility of e-mail and its reliability are now being destroyed. we voted on this in this chamber last year, when almost half of us didn't think spam was a problem. they objected to this prior authorisation. now that's not gonna cut it. even the operators are now being forced to clean up the content. this raises problems of freedom of personal communication. security requirements are increasing very rapidly as networks and communications interlock our lives. at the end of the broadband, we're constantly "open-minded". wireless internet is a direct prey to the intruder. the damage will be to all people: individuals, businesses and society. the safety problem is compounded by the need for many components and subsystems to work together in a complex environment. the human factor is also a risk. so data security is everyone's business, everywhere. information security is a political issue and therefore we must solve it. and that is why we are here, on an exceptionally fast timetable, to create this agency for europe, the network and information security agency. without security, the lisbon objectives will not be achieved. the lack of information security would lead us into an era of piracy. triple measures are in progress. we have laws in place regarding electronic communications and data protection. the commission is preparing principles for the prosecution of cybercrime and means of improving information security, and this is the case with enisa. i thank my colleagues, the council and the commission for the very good cooperation. it shows how we have now understood this situation. the agency will be a centre of excellence for coordination, analysis and advice. it will have very close cooperation with the public and private sectors. the agency shall contribute to the assessment of risks and the development of management methods. international cooperation is essential. the agency should be located in a location where state-of-the-art information and communication systems, including wireless, are already in place and functioning. it must have world-class centres of excellence and the best european experts within easy reach. as rapporteur, i have worked towards a compromise that would bring all member states on the board. at the same time, it does not interfere with the day-to-day work of the manager, the staff, the board and the working groups. it is true that a large board is a necessary forum for cooperation and a guiding factor. the voting rules are a little problematic. we can go back to them in a few years. the agency serves member states with very different levels of data security. the role of the companies in our compromise is strong, thanks to mr van velzen, because they have most of the networks and expertise. i also want to thank erika mann, who has also been driving this thing hard. the compromise package has been adopted by the committee, the council and the commission. i expect us to feel our responsibility and vote in favour of this tomorrow. it is leading to greater security, employment and development.
(fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of waste is one of the subjects of greatest interest to citizens, because it touches them directly. the waste management and the promotion of recycling and reuse of waste can have a direct impact on the daily life and well-being of citizens and the comfort of their living environment. the explosion of waste in the future is both an environmental and a health problem for the enlarged european union and its citizens. however, in many member states, the provisions on waste management, waste prevention, recycling and treatment have never been implemented in practice and national legislation is often deficient. i am one of those fortunate citizens whose country has a national waste strategy that is ambitious enough and well-managed. however, the finnish national waste problems cannot be ignored by the use of the olanko method, because, like environmental disasters, waste knows no borders. the commission's proposal to clarify the provisions on shipments of waste and to establish common rules for the european waste market is necessary. the authorities need clear legislation to improve the efficiency of waste recycling and to develop waste management in a more environmentally friendly way. it is also of particular importance that the minimum requirements for environmental standards for third countries follow the logic of community legislation and are not based on any vague guidelines. i am also concerned about the welfare of the marine areas of the arctic and the environmental risks they pose. the protection of the only inland sea in europe, the baltic sea, has long been a priority for the finnish state. i think it is important to include in the scope of this proposal the eu's territorial waters which need protection from the threats posed by waste transport. it is important to record that ships and other waterborne equipment can be classified as waste. the basel convention has not specifically addressed this issue and it is therefore important to raise it in this context in order to fill any loopholes.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would clarify that some amendments voted by the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy have been withdrawn, as shown on the list. i refer to amendments nos 11 and 12.
(fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, russia is our most important partner and its importance is growing all the time. russian culture is perhaps the greatest characteristic of the russian people, about which we know little. it is a key asset for europe. my group is concerned about the situation in chechnya, and it doesn't seem to be getting any better. we are in favour of a political solution, which is also supported by moscow, but the results are still looking bad. we fear civil war and the spread of the conflict beyond chechnya, to a region where there are already a great many elements of conflict. we want the russians to know that this is a hindrance to the development of our relations, and that's a big issue. we demand the implementation of human rights. wouldn't a joint chechen conference be a good thing to have? we need all the aid agencies on the ground immediately. we know very little about the yukos case, certainly not everything; however, the manner of the arrest is of concern. what we consider important is that the laws be observed and that the necessary transparency be maintained, but of course we know that there is a lot of confusion and that there have been crimes in the transfer of soviet property to a few hands. membership of the wto is very important, and so is the adoption of the kyoto protocol. both of these will help russia's development but also its democratic growth. we also need energy cooperation, which is the strongest and most important cooperation. i think we should combine our two transport networks, telecommunications networks and energy networks. it would be a decade's worth of work and a solid foundation for our cooperation.
(fi) mr president, after the votes in the committee on foreign affairs, human rights and common security and defence policy, i am sure that the napoletano report will be acceptable to all of us. on the other hand, the report has become too broad and detailed. the basic problem with this report is the conceptual confusion caused by the fact that the commission has combined the broader european policy and neighbourhood relations into one initiative. in practice, the wider european policy covers relations with the eastern neighbours, which are part of europe, while the southern neighbours are the non-european countries of the mediterranean and the middle east. the eldr group has sought to clarify the concepts in its amendments 15 and 16. the union would have a wider european policy, complemented by the northern and southern dimensions of our policy. the new neighbourhood policy and the new neighbourhood instrument would be implemented in relation to all neighbours, both to the east, south and north. i hope that these amendments will be accepted.
(fi) mr president, i would first like to congratulate mrs napoletano on her work. i am pleased that in his report he has treated the east and the south equally. the eu has and must have a balanced neighbourhood at all its external borders. the great challenge is not to build a fortress around ourselves while strengthening the common base of values and the functioning of the internal market. the broader approach to european information, which emphasises interdependence, is therefore particularly welcome. we must not limit the growth of prosperity to the union's borders. the promotion of democracy, good governance, human rights and sustainable development in neighbouring countries is in everyone's interest. in practice, crossborder cooperation opens up new opportunities for investment and innovation on both sides and strengthens direct cooperation between citizens. this will contribute to regional prosperity and stability. we must learn from the forms of cooperation that are already working, for example between finland and russia, and if the neighbourhood policy is to really take off, we must allocate sufficient resources to it.
(fi) mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur on the difficult report on the neighbourhood. it is good that it emphasizes the importance of political, social and economic stability in our neighbourhood for our security and, i would even say, for our future. that is why i am very much in favour of the idea of a common free trade area. this is a way of promoting democratic development. but our maturity is measured by our ability to prevent and avoid conflict. we must support the commission's idea of neighbourhood programmes. we want our exports to be stable so we don't have to bring instability back. but let us remember that there are not only divisions between countries, but also divisions within countries, and these divisions are growing all the time. it is the true measure of our societies, including our own.
i suggest. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the first action plan for the northern dimension of the european union's external and crossborder policies 2000-2003, adopted by the feira european council on 19 and 20 june 2000, will expire at the end of this year and intensive preparatory work has therefore already been started a year ago to continue the policies relating to the northern dimension beyond 2003. in particular, i recall that the guidelines for a new action plan were established at the ministerial conference on the northern dimension and the arctic window in greenland in august 2002 and at the subsequent meeting of foreign ministers in luxembourg in october of the same year. in line with these guidelines, the commission has therefore started contacts with all interested parties, including regional organisations and associations, as well as representatives of the private sector, with a view to drawing up a working document on the new action plan. on 11 june this year, the commission presented to the council the working document on the second northern dimension action plan for 2004-06, which takes up several proposals put forward by the parties concerned and takes account of the experience gained with the first action plan, as well as of the new needs for the coming years. the document was then examined by the council on 29 september 2003 and subsequently adopted at the european council in brussels on 16 and 17 october 2003. on that occasion, the heads of state or government underlined that the northern dimension will become increasingly important in the context of the enlargement of the union and will have to make a significant contribution to the development of the union's new neighbourhood policy in the whole region. the 2004-06 action plan sets out the guidelines for the next three years. it ensures, in this respect, the continuation of the 'northern dimension' of the union's policies, defined in the document as a 'horizontal concept applicable within the existing financial and institutional framework in the region concerned'. the northern dimension is of particular importance for certain priority areas of the union where the potential for added value is greatest, such as the economy, business, infrastructure, human resources, education, culture, scientific research, health, the environment, nuclear safety, natural resources, crossborder cooperation and regional development, and justice and home affairs. the common framework provided by the northern dimension for the promotion of political dialogue and practical cooperation will cover a wide and diverse geographical area around the baltic sea and the north atlantic. particular attention will be paid to regions with specific needs, such as kaliningrad and the arctic region, and therefore it will be essential to strengthen, in the context of the northern dimension, interaction at all levels between russia and the european union. the commission will continue to play a leading role, but all stakeholders, whether at national, regional or local level, or in business or civil society in general, will be called upon to play an active part. concrete activities will have to be carried out in the five major priority areas already mentioned - economy and infrastructure; education, culture, research and health; environment, nuclear safety and natural resources; crossborder cooperation and regional development; justice and home affairs - in a spirit of cooperation, based on participation open to all, subsidiarity and complementarity, an efficient allocation of tasks and comprehensive coordination and control.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the northern dimension of the european union's external relations and crossborder activities is an important area of commission activity, and this will become even more important with the forthcoming enlargement. the commission is continuing to be active in the field of the northern dimension. in parallel with the implementation of the measures of the first northern dimension action plan, the commission played a key role in the preparation of the second northern dimension action plan. this second action plan covers the period 2004-06. following the preparatory work carried out by the danish presidency last year, the commission carried out an open and inclusive consultation process involving the main partners during the first half of 2003. this process has proven to be very helpful. the commission also took account of the european parliament's resolution of 16 january 2003. in june 2003, the commission submitted its proposals for the second action plan. following discussion in the council, the final version of the document was adopted by the council and endorsed by the european council at its meeting in brussels on 16 and 17 october 2003. the main objective of the second action plan is, in our mutual interest, to provide an instrument for regional cooperation with our neighbour, the russian federation. the northern dimension also aims to address the opportunities and challenges that could arise from the forthcoming enlargement. this means that it will help to promote stability and prosperity in this region, both within and outside the european union's borders. the northern dimension also makes a direct contribution to the objectives we have just discussed in the context of the debate on wider europe and the new neighbourhood. finally, the new action plan will contribute to the sustainable development of the arctic region and the indigenous peoples living there. the commission also continued its intensive work on the implementation of the first action plan. it's supposed to be done by the end of the year. in this connection, some recent results are worth mentioning. the commission also continued to support the implementation of the first projects under the northern dimension environmental partnership, the signing of the agreement on the multilateral nuclear and environmental programme in the russian federation and the development of crossborder cooperation in the context of the preparation of the first neighbourhood programmes following the commission's communication of july 2003. we should not forget the large number of projects already completed or still in progress and the concrete initiatives of the commission in the framework of community programmes which also contribute to the realization of the northern dimension. a full overview covering all sectors of the first action plan will be provided in the 2003 annual report on progress in the implementation of the northern dimension action plan. the commission will publish this report in the coming weeks. finally, we should also take into account the significant contribution made by the other actors, such as the member states, regional organisations or local or regional authorities. the northern dimension can only be a success if it is actively supported by all the actors involved in the region. this is an aspect to which we have drawn particular attention in the second action plan. the commission will of course continue to keep parliament regularly informed on the implementation of the initiative and we hope for parliament's active participation in the monitoring and review initiatives that will take place in the near future.
(fi) mr president, mr antonione, the council representative, mr verheugen, the commissioner, on the subject of the northern dimension, can always give both good and bad news. the good news is that the council and the commission are reporting that the northern dimension is alive. the bad news is that there is little happening in this area, except that parliament, the council and the commission are all trying to expand and at the same time moderate the whole concept so that it will probably soon cover the whole of the northern hemisphere. however, there are things happening in the baltic sea region and in north-western russia which the european union should also be involved in economic terms. safety or insecurity at sea is one of them. the union is enlarged, and in four months' time the border between russia and the union will double. the kaliningrad agreement is threatening to become a huge dispute when no one seems to be telling lithuania what is happening or if anything is happening. it was interesting to read about the protocol of the eu-russia summit on conducting a feasibility study of the expressway by the end of 2003. it is now six weeks since the incident, and the lithuanians - at least according to what their former president said yesterday - know nothing about it. the nordic gas pipeline will be built within two or three years from the northern arctic sea via finland and via the baltic or baltic sea to central europe. from the arctic to the baltic, its route lacks infrastructure and probably crosses evergreen forests that need protection. the russians can't handle this alone. the union is occasionally alarmed by the risks posed by nuclear waste and nuclear power plants in north-western russia, but the tacis programme has a considerable amount of unused funds for nuclear safety projects, some eur 180 million. so why are they not used to clean up marine nuclear waste in litsa guba and murmansk - by which i mean the reactors of decommissioned nuclear submarines and the nuclear waste on the beaches - or to ensure the safety of the power stations in sosnovibor and kanta bay? the northern dimension of environmental cooperation, coordinated by the ebrd, is a good instrument. it also needs to be used outside of one project. the southwest sanitation plant in st. petersburg is the tip of the iceberg compared to what is needed. the fact that the northern dimension is still almost exclusively verbal is not the fault of the community alone. i am pointing the finger at the present and previous finnish governments, for example, for whom it does not seem that regional cooperation was or is not worth the effort of vigorous lobbying to accelerate european union action.
(fi) mr president, on behalf of the socialist group, i would like to thank the commission and the council for making the northern dimension of the eu a permanent and consistent part of european union policy. the continuity is shown by the fact that we are already discussing a second action plan. however, as mentioned above, the northern dimension has been criticized for being vague and for lacking concreteness. this programme, which will run from 2004 to 2006, will hopefully eliminate these problems. the programme promises to provide a coherent framework for all northern dimension policies by setting strategic objectives and priorities. however, the northern dimension will only gain sufficient credibility if it can improve the lives of people in the northern regions of the eu and those bordering them. this means developing the economy by exploiting the opportunities offered by trade and the sustainable use of natural resources. in the northern regions, environmental issues are also central. the baltic sea will become an eu inland sea after enlargement and its protection will require rapid action not only in the eu but also in russia. it is good news that the russian prime minister, during his visit to finland this week, gave support to the european union's efforts to stop the use of single-hull oil tankers in the baltic sea. environmental cooperation must be continued to improve nuclear safety, and the arctic nature also requires special attention. the plans and agreements in the field of health and social protection must also be translated into concrete cooperation projects. the new neighbours initiative, which has just been discussed here, will give new impetus to the northern dimension of the eu. the added value of the new financial instrument is particularly highlighted, as it reduces bureaucracy in crossborder cooperation. however, the northern dimension also needs sufficient new economic resources to be realised.
(fi) mr president, the enlargement of the european union is strengthening the northern dimension. the accession of the baltic states and poland, which have been key partners in the eu's external relations, will strengthen the northern dimension of both the eu's internal development work and its external relations. the enlarged eu is reorganising its external relations with its eastern and southern neighbours by creating a broader european policy and a new neighbourhood policy. the future of the northern dimension will depend crucially on how well we can articulate it into this larger whole. in the context of the wider european policy, the eu continues to expand and develop its relations with its european neighbours. it is complemented by the northern and southern dimensions of eu policy, which extend beyond europe. it is natural that the new neighbourhood policy and the new financing system for neighbourhood cooperation will also be implemented in the northern regions. in the north, the new financing system could be used as a pilot project before it is generally introduced, as the napoletano report suggests.
(fi) mr president, mr commissioner, mr president of the council, the northern dimension of the eu is not the internal market policy of the union but its neighbourhood and external policy. the main issue is cooperation with the russian regions close to the eu's borders. on behalf of our group, we would like to draw attention to the word cooperation. there is a need for cooperation between people, not just between companies. we must not only bring money to the northern neighbourhood, but also social welfare and democracy. our group supports projects that prevent sexual exploitation of women and children and combat the diseases and social problems associated with poverty. poverty makes you sick. we are not satisfied with the way the commission has handled the northern dimension of the eu. it must be more than just russia policy. the commission has not been able to create content for the projects included in the programmes. unfortunately, the same is true of this year's presidencies. neither greece nor italy have mentioned the northern dimension in their priorities. they have retreated home towards the mediterranean, even though the presidencies would have an obligation to create projects throughout the union. the european union has been a major player in the fight against terrorism, and it is not the eu's responsibility to ensure that it is not used as a weapon. there is a danger that the specific features of the eu's northern dimension will be left at the feet of the new, broader european neighbourhood policy. the conditions of life in the north are dictated by nature in a different way than in the south, and these regions need their own specific policies. the joint motion for a resolution by the political groups must be comprehensive, and it is only a matter of implementation; the commission is responsible for it.
(fi) mr president, when 'big' issues like italian domestic policy dominate the eu debate, whole airlines can be sidelined. the northern dimension is still waiting for its breakthrough for reasons like this. but its significance is revealed by looking at the nuclear risks in our neighbour russia or at recent domestic politics. the stability of the wider european union depends in large measure on our capacity for effective regional and crossborder cooperation. as has been said here, the enlargement of the eu will increase the weight of the baltic sea, and hopefully also the possibilities for closer cooperation to enhance its ecological and political future. i am simply reminding you of the dangers of russia's explosive growth in oil shipments. this action plan is also a useful overview of the main regional challenges, but it lacks a clear strategic vision of the priorities to be promoted, above all concrete and measurable short and medium-term objectives, and how cooperation with intergovernmental and non-governmental organisations and other existing platforms should be used to achieve them. finally, i would like to highlight the position of the sámi, the only indigenous people in the eu. their political influence should be considerably increased. the traditional sami livelihoods and way of life should be protected, which also requires a satisfactory solution to local land ownership and land use conditions, however difficult or painful that may be. but it's the will that counts.
(fi) mr president, i should like to turn to the report by mr sacrédeus and, first of all, thank him for the good work he has done in drawing up the report. the amendments proposed in the report will make it easier both to support projects of importance to the european union and to monitor their operation. the commission proposal defines the possible targets very clearly and a considerable number of the possible target countries are not at all underdeveloped. i think it is important that this project is specifically applied to those countries and regions within countries which are otherwise the most difficult to reach and with which the european union can be seen to have a clear need to develop understanding and cooperation. i think it is particularly problematic that cooperation agreements with non-industrialized countries are easily focused on promoting economic development. in this context, it must be remembered that the improvement of social conditions also has an undeniable value in international cooperation and a clear - albeit indirect - impact as a factor in economic development. i therefore believe that it is important for the report to stress the importance of the dialogue between the commission and parliament before the calls for proposals are submitted. only in this way can parliament ensure that it can control the allocation of funds and also support humane development objectives. the decisions taken by the commission on priority areas represent a strong position on the values of the european union, and it is of the utmost importance that parliament, which represents the union in the eyes of its citizens, is able to influence these decisions.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commissioner has now been saved by this good opening speech, in which he has told us what we really wanted to hear. of course, such a skilled and experienced commissioner would have done the job, but thank you, neil kinnock, for what you have just said. but yes, on september 29, when the director general of the press and communications department sends a letter to all the information points, it was like a piece of ice had come into the bath. the situation changed dramatically, and people panicked. of course, that is not the way to go, and we are all here to prove it. these information points have only been set up in recent years, and the commission itself has stated the following - and i quote the excellent commission position: 'the contribution of the centres is extremely valuable, because they have a wealth of experience and can operate flexibly very close to civil society and citizens. they are a vital instrument in the european union's information and communication strategy, and they represent the european union on the ground.' i am sure that you will continue to ensure that there are data points in the field. it has already been mentioned here that the need for information is growing even more. the effects of enlargement create a need for continuous information in all member states. the results of the igc must be made public, that is, the constitutional agreement. it is a book of over 300 pages, which has so far been read by less than 2% of the union's citizens. the european parliament elections, and in particular the increase in voter turnout, are of course a major task which can be reserved for these points. we need to step up surveillance. if there are any points that are unclear, i would like the commissioner to explain them. it is clear, however, that it must not affect the whole network, the parts that have functioned properly. i warmly support the commission's efforts over the next year to find a better, more efficient and more easily controllable way. the need for information is growing as more and more decisions are being made here, at the heart of europe, and i therefore support the commissioner in his reform efforts.
(fi) mr president, i too would like to thank mr michel rocard for raising an important subject. the european information centres in the member states are a natural and simple way for citizens to obtain information about the european union. it has been said here many times, of course, but i have to repeat it for my own part. as a communication channel, they may not be indispensable and their operation may not be absolutely dependent on the support provided by the commission. they are absolutely essential. in my own country, the best thing about european data points is that they are where people are. they are certainly not the reason for the eu's remoteness. on the contrary, it is precisely these data points that can make things easier. the eu data centres are located in rural areas and the european data points in regional libraries. it's easy for a citizen to look for the information they want, and they do. for example, the draft eu constitutional treaty is requested in finland on a daily basis. we, the members of the european parliament, are often the ones to whom citizens turn for advice on various issues. however, since legislative work is our priority, my own work has been greatly facilitated by the fact that in many cases i can direct people to the information centres. in previous european elections, the voting percentage has remained low, with the latest figure in finland being just over 31%. in addition, many citizens of the european union feel that the new constitution is driving the union towards a federal form and that the union's administration is increasingly moving away from the grassroots. such fears must be alleviated by the addition of factual information. for these reasons, i do not think it is sensible to reduce or communicate the intention to reduce by cutting off direct communication to citizens. it is essential that the european elections reach the people both through the participation of the public media and through the union's own communication. the combined effect of these factors will be to build on the experience of citizens' own elections and their own union and to establish a european union which is people-centred and open to citizens' input.
(fi) mr president, religious freedom is an important indicator of the fulfilment of human rights, a kind of litmus test for human rights. if the human rights situation in a country is weak, it is likely to be first noticed in religious groups. they will be tested as to whether the human rights of freedom of speech, association and assembly, and freedom of religion are true. the situation in vietnam requires the attention of the international community. the eu must send a clear message that discrimination against, for example, the united buddhist church in vietnam, protestant house churches and dissenting groups must end. members of these peaceful religious communities have suffered from imprisonment and house arrest. the indigenous mountain minority christians have also been continually harassed, arrested and imprisoned by the vietnamese government. the eu and the communist republic of vietnam have defined economic cooperation as conditional on respect for fundamental rights and democratic principles. by violating these principles, vietnam is violating and harming itself, and the eu must now make that clear. it is regrettable that criticism of the communist party of vietnam is automatically regarded there as a threat to the state itself. the exercise of fundamental rights such as the right to express one's opinion can be interpreted as spying under the narrowly defined national security law. another concern from a human rights perspective is that the accused are considered guilty before the trial even begins and that the trials are almost invariably declared secret. the rule of law needs clear and precise laws that guarantee equality for all and the realization of legal certainty. in no case is the rule of law built on laws that allow racial, religious or political discrimination.
(fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. i continue to stress the need for an open administrative culture in the european union to achieve the acceptance of citizens. the blur leads to darkness, as we know it. simplification of legislation is essential. the citizens must be able to understand this whole 'house-hall' and the replacement of the obtrusive legal texts by more streamlined ones is very necessary and i support it. it is unnecessary to regulate the details as has been pointed out here, it is our disease. i would like to make one further amendment, however, which is already in the report. the union supports the socalled 'one-stop-shop' principle in all areas. it provides that citizens can always obtain the information and forms they need from one and the same source. however, the various union institutions do not yet have a common website through which citizens can follow the progress of legislation. legislative and other draft legislation pending before parliament, the commission and the council should be accessible from a single internet address. the institutions need at least a common portal, like a single window, which provides all the necessary links. the commission and parliament have become more open, but the council has not. it will have more power, which means more darkness. we need to do something about this.
commission. mr president, eight months have passed since i had the pleasure of addressing you on the commission’s proposal for a directive establishing quality and safety requirements for human tissues and cells. since that occasion in april 2003 there has been a considerable amount of effort, discussion and negotiation on the part of parliament and the council in order to arrive at the compromise before you today. i am fully aware of the tremendous work that these institutions have undertaken with the commission over the recent months. let me specifically express my appreciation to the rapporteur and to the members of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for all their hard work on this important proposal. the compromise package will ensure that the increasing number of patients in europe who are treated with human tissues and cells can trust that these substances are not only safe but also of good quality. it constitutes another step forward in the regulatory framework on substances of human origin under article 152 that we initiated a couple of years ago with the blood directive. in my view, the main concerns of the european parliament have been successfully addressed in the compromise – and that is very much down to your rapporteur. let me now turn to some of the key concerns. i appreciate the difficult issues the environment committee had to address – in particular regarding ethics and other related issues. the commission is willing to accept the compromise position that strikes a balance between parliament’s wish to 'ensure' voluntary and unpaid donations, and the current proposal, which 'encourages' such donations. this amendment would introduce the wording 'endeavours to ensure' voluntary and unpaid donations and the idea of compensation in specific cases, leaving the responsibility of defining such compensation to the member states themselves. i must, however, make it clear that this compromise solution goes to the very limit of what the commission believes to be legally acceptable, given the restrictions of the treaty. the council of europe and the european group on ethics have stressed the principle of not-for-profit procurement of tissues and cells. the directive should therefore accord with this principle. however, i must draw a distinction between the act of procurement, to which the 'not-for-profit' principle should apply, and the secondary activities, such as the further processing, manipulation, testing, or the manufacturing of products, to which it should not apply. for example, whilst it might be considered unacceptable to take heart valves from a deceased donor and sell them, heart valves need to be treated to ensure the absence of infectious agents and preserved so that they can be stored for a longer period. these and other processes that have served to improve the quality and usefulness of the heart valve should not be constrained by the 'not-for-profit' principle. this point has been clarified in the compromise package. some amendments refer to prohibition of the use of 'cells derived from cloned embryos' for 'transplantation' – so-called 'therapeutic cloning'. such applications remain highly controversial with no consistent opinion amongst the member states as to either their ethical legitimacy or their safety. i would add that there is no likelihood of any such opinion emerging in the near future. we therefore consider it necessary to refrain from interference regarding decisions to be made by individual member states on the use or non-use of any specific type of human cells or tissues. i believe the best solution is to set a community framework on safety and quality requirements with sufficient scope to cover the use of such cells in those member states where it is permitted. the compromise package reinforces the thrust of the commission proposal in this respect. anonymity is another important issue. it is generally accepted that tissue and cell donation should respect the anonymity of both donors and recipients. this principle aims first to respect the confidentiality of the donor and the recipient, and second, to encourage altruistic donations. the common position introduces the possibility for member states to maintain or adopt different legislation in exceptional circumstances, such as the right of a child to know the genetic parents in case of the donation of gametes. i can accept further clarification of the rights of member states to make exceptions. finally, a word on organs. while the quality and safety of organs is indeed important, priority at this stage should be given to addressing the serious shortages of organs and the prevention of organ trafficking. the commission wishes to reflect on how it could best address the concerns of parliament in this sensitive area. we need first to get the overall framework right before proposing specific solutions. to this end, the commission is willing to present a declaration as follows: 'the important differences between organ transplantation and the use of other human substances such as blood, tissues and cells mean that a specific approach for organs in order to ensure safety and quality is necessary. such an approach in the current situation characterised by shortages of organs has to balance two factors: the need for organ transplantation, which is usually a matter of life and death, with the need to ensure high standards of quality and safety. the commission believes that before considering any proposal it is necessary to conduct a thorough scientific evaluation of the situation regarding organ transplantation. the commission will present a report on the conclusions of the analysis it undertakes as soon as possible.' to conclude, i look forward to your endorsement of the orientation presented in the compromise package. i believe that if parliament and the council can endorse the amendments, so too can the commission. i will be very disappointed if we cannot reach agreement. discussions on the 70 amendments would be very complicated, and i very much doubt whether we would arrive at a better solution than that offered by this compromise package.
(fi) mr president, i am here to defend the position of parliament at first reading. we wanted to ensure that the voluntary and free donation of cells and tissues is protected and that the trade in unmodified cells and tissues is prohibited, while at the same time safeguarding the industry. the council wanted to overturn parliament's position on the non-payment, citing the issue as being outside the eu's competence as a so-called ethical issue. i think it would be a big mistake to exclude ethical issues from eu decision-making. especially when we're talking about a community that likes to call itself a community of values. second, ethical questions rarely arise alone in a moral vacuum. for example, they are ethical precisely because they have an impact on human health, as in this case. we are now coming to a key policy issue where the work of parliament under the leadership of mr liese is of the utmost importance. an italian film director - if i am to return to italian films once more in this chamber in honour of italy's outgoing presidency - has stated that the restriction of the viewing angle is already an ethical choice. ethical issues cannot be dismissed, for such a choice is itself an ethical choice. as a philosopher by training, i have to say this. we also have a responsibility for how the rest of the world copies our practices. if we allow the trade in human body parts, we must take into account the fact that the developing countries are following the european example. such commercialisation will lead to exploitation, but also to increased risks. the line taken by the council also risks being inconsistent. several european union member states have signed a bioethics convention that explicitly prohibits the commercial exploitation of the human body and its parts. the rapporteur's conclusion is well founded. the legal basis for the directive is article 152 of the treaty on european union, which deals with health issues, and all the so-called ethical issues dealt with by the european parliament also relate to the protection of the health of the donor and the recipient. all donations made under suspicious circumstances, such as under financial pressure, also pose a risk to the recipient of the cells and tissues. many members of the council of ministers also agree with this assessment.
- (sv) mr president, mr commissioner, this time i cannot speak on behalf of the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party, because we do not have a clear position on some of the more critical questions. as mme gebhardt has said, we are faced with an unusual situation. the parliament risks weakening the council's common position on the environment, as is also the case with commissioner bolkestein's speech. this could possibly imply a deterioration in relation to the position of most member states. what a scandal that must be. i would say to mrs niebler that there is, in view of the many questions, a much stricter responsibility than the common position would imply. the proposal is therefore not particularly radical. let me give you a concrete example. if the committee responsible were to obtain a gain de cause or if amendment no 61 were to be adopted, we should have to accept a situation in which we could hardly demand of the port authorities in helsinki that they repair the damage caused by tbt, a poison produced by dredging and which is spreading in the waterways of the west of helsinki and in the surrounding archipelago. because the dredging is entirely covered by a licence, the authorities could not have foreseen at any time that the poison would be found in the dredging equipment. this case is also currently being examined by a committee on petitions. i wanted to speak to you to show you how unreasonable it would be to adopt the reservations of the european union with regard to the state of knowledge and non-responsibility if an authorisation had been granted, reservations in favour of which the commission and the internal market are now pronounced. the financial regimes must be acceptable in the proposal of the compromises we now have. however, they cannot be harmonised to an additional extent given the different and rather creative regimes existing in the different member states. for some time, i would like the members to remember that "state" is not synonymous with "authority". this also affects the local authorities to a very large extent and must be taken into account when voting.
(fi) mr president, it would be very wrong to label last week's intergovernmental meeting and summit as a failure. on the contrary, under the italian presidency, the basic ideas of the preparatory commission were preserved almost intact and agreed jointly on 22 subjects. the agreement was reached on an important issue for future security, the development of common european defence infrastructures. the committee also noted that the inclusion of the original wording of the preparatory commission on the position of non-aligned countries in relation to security guarantees would allow finland, sweden and austria to be fully involved in security cooperation. as a by-product, the summit also resolved long-standing disputes over the location of eu agencies. this is why italy can retreat and boast about its parma and prosciutto, and we finns, through the agency for chemicals, will ensure that they do not use the wrong substances in their production. what left everything open in the agreement was the dispute over the distribution of voting power between the council countries. as president chirac himself admitted, the failure of the nice conference is the reason for this. the present presidency, and even poland or spain, cannot be unilaterally accused. it is natural that germany could not accept the nice decision. it is equally natural that it cannot be resolved by word of mouth, but that we now have to negotiate a balanced approach, taking into account the position of the small countries and not just the large ones, such as spain and poland. the return to a genuine double majority - half the population, half the states - is certainly one element of the solution which would also convince the small countries that the future is not dictated by the big ones. it is important, however, that matters already settled should not be reopened because of an open dispute. if that were to happen, then the brussels summit and the igc could truly be said to have failed. (applause) i would like to thank the
(fi) mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate and thank the draftsmen of the budget, mrs gill and mr mulder, for their excellent work. i also thank mrs schreyer and the italian presidency for their good cooperation. in particular, i would like to thank mr terence wynn, the president of the committee, for his leadership in the conciliation process and the political group coordinators for their constructive cooperation. the budget for next year was drawn up for 25 member states, as my group wanted. this week we are adopting the budgets of the fifteen member states, but the figures for the enlarged european union have also been agreed politically and will be adopted in the supplementary budget for next year. this strengthens the credibility of the budget as the basis for the eu's annual action. the budget is disciplined. the eu-15's payment appropriations will fall by 2.9% this year, and the total payments of the enlarged eu will be only 2.3% higher than this year's budget. the desire of the member states to limit the present budgetary powers of the parliament at the intergovernmental conference is therefore incomprehensible. in particular, the liberal and democratic group supported the priorities of the rapporteur-general, which were widely accepted. my group also supported the adequate increase in the commission's staff which enlargement would bring. despite the council's opposition, this position was adopted. the most difficult question was again the fourth heading, 'external actions'. my group supported participation in the reconstruction of iraq. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the areas of the environment, the environment and the environment. we are pleased that this heading also took into account the other priorities of our group, such as the northern dimension, measures to strengthen human rights and democracy and the fight against poverty-related diseases such as malaria and aids. our group has always been suspicious of the money earmarked for specific organizations, the so-called a 30 budget lines. they have been considered ill-founded, so-called christmas presents. now they're leaving. eu funding will gradually move to an application-based and transparent approach in line with the financial regulation. in this context, it is worth mentioning that parliament managed to save the funding for the european information points and the eu rural data centres for next year, when their status will be clarified. without parliament's intervention, the result would have been chaos. the draft budget for next year reflects the sense of responsibility which parliament feels in exercising its budgetary powers.
(fi) mr president, mr commissioner, the draft eu budget for next year has been overshadowed by some major events. however, these major events also have an impact on the eu budget. the first is the us invasion of iraq, which was illegal under international law because it was carried out without a un mandate. the eu pledged €200 million to the us for reconstruction in iraq at the donor conference in madrid. in this way, and with the common money of all, some of the large member states which have not taken part in the oil war want to normalise their bilateral relations with the united states. if a member state wants to give eu money to iraq, the money has to come from it. this would be the case if the so-called flexibility instrument had been activated and eu spending had been increased by the same amount. it would not have meant abandoning economic discipline, as the final eu budget for next year is the lowest in terms of gross domestic product in almost twenty years. this means that the eu is not pledging to the same keynesian debt policy as germany and france, which do not demand from themselves the same stability pact as has been demanded from others. the flexibility instrument will now be activated only in part and part of the aid to iraq will be deducted from other budget lines. in this respect, the reconstruction of iraq will be paid for by the beneficiaries from whom the corresponding money is withdrawn. our group cannot support the fact that the war damage caused by the united states is paid for by the poor, but that the oil-rich iraq is paid for by the poor of other countries: the poor of asia, latin america and the mediterranean. the eu constitution was not adopted in brussels last weekend. it will not have a direct impact on next year's budget, but it could have a major impact on future budgets when negotiations on the financial framework for 2007-13 begin. it is worth noting how the german and french political elites are clashing over the continuation of the constitutional negotiations and the negotiations on the financial framework. it seems to be a threat to those eu candidate countries which have retained their constitutional voting rights and are net beneficiaries of the eu budget. it is clear that spain and poland have a large majority in the eu under the nice treaty, but the eu budget should not be used to politically blackmail these countries. and if they are blackmailing, then let them blackmail all countries on the same grounds. the budget should be tightened up against the united kingdom, whose net contribution is two-thirds paid by us citizens of other countries. there is no sustainable justification for such membership fee reductions. just as spain and poland want to be made to do the will of others, so too should the united kingdom be made to pay its share of the eu's costs on the same terms as the others. as regards parliament's own budget, our group is critical of the proposals to pay european parliamentary aid from parliament's own resources to political parties at european level, that is to say, to parties of parties. supporting them means weakening national parliamentary democracy and transferring power to a supranational level. i thank the rapporteur and the coordinators of the various groups for the good cooperation, even though i have brought up some points which differ from the general line.
(fi) mr president, mr minister, this question was asked before the decisions of 13 december were known, and i congratulate italy on having succeeded in obtaining this food agency. italy was the only country which did not approve the establishment of this agency at the helsinki summit a few years ago, but now you have it and i congratulate you on that. i also congratulate you on the overall success of this package of agencies, because it seems to be fairly balanced, and although you did get the food agencies, you had to share them with others.
in writing. - (fi) i voted in favour of the proposal because if we want to change the current system, it's this or nothing. i voted in favour of this proposal on the assumption that the system of travel expenses will be reformed, in the sense that these expenses will be reimbursed on the basis of the expenses actually spent.
(fi) mr president, the commission's proposal deserves the support of parliament. our task should be to encourage even greater steps, but in that respect the committee's report is a disappointment. firstly, the committee considers the matter from many angles, but does not question the fact that the system only concerns professional transport. secondly, the committee does not seem to have abandoned the idea that the toll should be a replacement for road maintenance. thirdly, the commission's approach does not give the eu a sufficient starting point for sustainable development. let us consider these three points in some detail: the introduction of toll systems should avoid a situation where the increase in private transport completely overrides the benefit of reducing commercial transport. the only sustainable solution is that the system applies equally to all road traffic from the outset. the solution is also not unreasonable for private motorists, as satellite tracking devices are rapidly becoming common in cars. their contribution will already be significant in 2008, when the european galileo system will be operational. it is essential to take account of the external costs of transport in such a way that, even for a given road toll, the marginal cost of transport corresponds to the marginal price charged. in this case, the transport costs are not the current external costs but the costs of the new balancing price for the volume of transport. the objective should therefore be to ensure that the volume of traffic on a charged route or in a charged area at different times is optimal and that the level of that optimal volume is determined by market mechanisms. in my view, these conditions are best met by systems based on satellite positioning, and therefore we should dare to agree, as the commission proposes, to make this technology the basis of a european system as soon as possible. this also provides economies of scale for bringing the technology to market, which benefits primarily the transport operators in terms of reduced costs. i think that the members will mutter to themselves about the inadequacy of the eu's legislative powers. i would remind you, however, of the growing role of transport as a source of co2 emissions. although the automotive industry has done and is doing a lot of work, with eu support, to develop low-emission cars, it is justified to introduce tolling schemes specifically to reduce emissions. i refer to article 174 of the treaty.
(fi) mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr glantea, for his hard work. increasing cogeneration is one of the best ways to improve energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions from this production. let us fight emissions with science, efficiency and moderation. we have a lot of good experiences in finland with this combined production. we're the pioneers in this field. in finland, one third of the electricity is already produced by this joint production. i support the directive, it will speed up the increase of this kind of production throughout europe. the union must actually set an example in this area. it would be desirable to include initiatives of this kind as soon as possible in the programmes of the new neighbours, so as to increase production in the regions adjacent to the union. in our national strategy, this path is almost complete, with district heating and industrial sites already being used in the main for combined production. our energy economy is very well documented, diverse and efficient. the electricity bill should come down, so i'll connect you to the previous speaker. we note that it is important to leave it to the member states to decide at national level what means are to be used to further the common objectives. we have a lack of coherence in this respect within the union. one point in detail: i am in favour of the council supporting the amendment to the report which states that the commission is to assess the impact of the harmonised calculation method and to propose further measures to promote harmonisation. i support this approach because the harmonisation of definitions for national purposes must be a long-term objective.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, i too would like to thank mr glantea on behalf of my group for the excellent report he has produced. he's done a lot of work on this, listened to all sides, and got a good result. i am a strong supporter of combined heat and power as an environmental and energy policy instrument for increasing energy efficiency and security of supply. as mr paasilinna has already said, we have good experiences in finland with co-production. the drafting of a union-wide directive is a difficult process, because of the technical requirements of the directive and the wide variation in the circumstances and practices of the member states. our group supports the compromises drawn up by the rapporteur and hopes that the directive will now move forward rapidly. i think it is important that we make progress on this matter, even if it is a small step. the eu is highly dependent on energy imports, which creates uncertainty and increases the risk of energy supply disruption. it is necessary to increase the share of co-production. this directive will create a framework for increasing co-production. member states must adopt commonly defined criteria to achieve the binding targets. experience has shown that if the objectives are not binding on the member states, progress is slow. the potential of combined heat and power can be optimally exploited when the various operators are aware of the technical possibilities available and find compatible systems. this is why cooperation and exchange of information on good practice between different actors is particularly important.
(fi) mr president, this has been discussed in many forums and i thank the rapporteur for his great contribution to this matter, which is essential to the functioning of the internal market and to the production of electricity and heat, and which i hope will now be concluded. the most recent compromise amendments have indeed made progress in the right direction. it is good that national objectives are not set, but that the approach is positive and encouraging. chp should be promoted where it is an efficient and natural way to generate electricity and heat. it is also important that chp aid is not limited to installations with an installed capacity of less than 50 mw. we must oppose the proposed support for small chp, for example, through free access to the grid and guarantee prices paid to small chp. this would distort competition in the open electricity markets that are currently being attempted to be created within the eu. small chp must be supported by other means, on a voluntary basis, without distorting competition and where chp is a cost-effective technology. biomass should be used more and more as a fuel for chp. this would contribute to the achievement of the targets for the use of renewable energy sources and the reduction of emissions. the effect of the ets negotiations may be to render special support for cogeneration of electricity and heat useless. in any event, the price of energy is expected to rise on the market as a result of emissions trading, to the detriment of users. it is important to promote the joint production of electricity and heat, as this is a good solution both economically and environmentally. the compromise proposals now agreed are a step forward in this respect.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i want to take this opportunity to talk about girls' education, because without girls' education, there is no equality for women. mr martens also mentioned that the unicef report 'the state of the world's children 2004' published last week is actually a frightening read. we make promise after promise, like in the millennium declaration. in the context of the un special session on children, we took action to reduce the gap between girls and boys in terms of illiteracy and to give girls good access to education. we have had the fast track initiatives in the world bank development committee, but what is happening? today, we know that more than 120 million children are out of school. fifteen percent of all boys and 21 percent of all girls are out of school. the situation is particularly acute in south-east asia and sub-saharan africa. under the world bank's fast track initiative, developed countries approved a $326 million financing plan last year, but so far only $207 million has been allocated. this means a funding gap of almost 118 million in one and a half years. we have not kept our promises. it is we in the developed countries who have not done our part. the developing countries have presented their plans and have done what they should have done. of the eu countries, italy and germany contribute only 0.3 percent and 2.1 percent of their development aid. only the netherlands has really lived up to its promises to the children of the world. what will happen after all the declarations and especially after the un special session on children, in which young people themselves were involved and demanded that they should have the right to education? yet, these are small sums compared with many other promises. i believe that the eu and the commission together should step up and live up to their promises, for example in the world bank.
the rapporteur. {\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\ the background to this report is the appeal of a young english woman two years ago, and i am pleased to see louise mcvay sitting in the visitor's gallery right now, watching where her determination and courage led. louise learned that she had ms and was bitterly disappointed that she was not given much of the medication that would improve her quality of life. in his country, as elsewhere in europe, people are even unequally placed in terms of access to medication and rehabilitation, depending on where they live. louise wrote to the president of the european parliament, who forwarded her letter to the committee on petitions. there are over 400 000 people in the european union with ms, and i myself was one of them when i started working in parliament and in the committee on petitions this spring, just as louis's petition was being considered. i was asked to draw up this report, which aims to clarify concrete ways of improving the lives of people with ms across the union. ms develops in young people whose lives are dominated by education, careers and family life. two out of three of the people who have it are women. the report shows the wide variation in diagnosis and treatment across the european union. this inequality in access to the best possible medication and therapy violates the fundamental right of citizens to health care. i believe that with better cooperation and the full support of all the institutions of the union, above all and obviously parliament, the ministers of health will be able to concentrate resources more effectively to support people with this disease. i believe that the capricious and unpredictable nature of the disease should be taken into account, so that those who have it are not so vulnerable to the loss of their jobs and their social environment. ms is an incurable disease, and the diagnosis does not merely require a person to adjust mentally to a change in his life. this disease puts both the sufferer and his family to a severe test, including financial ones. in view of this situation, i have tabled amendment no 3 at the request of louise mcvay. because of the wide range of symptoms, he was not considered to meet the requirements for medical services. the report proposes a number of measures relating to international cooperation and research and calls on the commission to contribute to their implementation. the report calls for the next meeting of the health ministers of the member states to include these wishes on the agenda, and i hope that parliament will be informed of the decisions and proposals for action. i have also tabled two amendments relating to the need to apply the precautionary principle, particularly in the handling of toxic chemicals. the question came up when tbt was suspected of being linked to ms in scotland. in any event, it is known that the substance in question has an effect on the central nervous system. although my report focuses specifically on ms and its specific features, there are a number of other similar diseases and after discussion with my colleague i have decided to make an oral amendment to add a mention of these. in my own country, finland, there are only 6,000 people with ms, but each of us has many colleagues among the hundreds of thousands of victims in the eu. those of us who are eligible for the new high-priced drugs feel a sense of community with all those whose illness has progressed to the disabling stage. we can fight more to improve conditions for all. i hope that this first report will be read carefully by those responsible for health care in the member states. after all the political and constitutional debates this week, parliament has the opportunity to show that it is listening to the citizen, not just to the president of the council. it is good that people believe that parliament exists for human wishes and for human requests for help and that it is not just a bunch of big buildings in an asphalt jungle in a few central european countries. one of the demands of the citizens and of my report seems to have been met, when commissioner diamantopoulou announced at the beginning of december that the commission was going to propose a specific directive to guarantee the rights of disabled people. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am not one of those who usually thank the speaker without any reason, but now there is a real reason to say thank you. it is a particular pleasure for me, who has had the privilege of knowing mrs aaltonen for a long time, to congratulate her on her first report here in the european parliament. she is a positive person who has fought many important political battles for youth, women and now the disabled. it is a privilege for the european parliament to have access to her knowledge, energy and experience. these characteristics have been very useful in the preparation of the report. i am also grateful that mr aaltonen has taken account of my proposal on the genetic questions. pentti tienari, associate professor of experimental neurology in finland, has been researching this, and unfortunately, there are genetic factors behind it. the vikings are suspected of spreading the disease, since it is found primarily in the orkney and shetland islands and also in the area around kyro river in finland. the disease is also found wherever the germanic peoples have moved. i hope that this genetic factor will also be taken into account in future research. i would also like to say that the eldr group, which is usually very careful about the question of subsidiarity, will for the most part approve all these amendments. it is said that the member states should cooperate, and i think it is important that the member states cooperate in finding the binding standards. perhaps this can be done outside the eu structure, for example through cooperation between ministers within the council of europe. that's where we should be making binding health care recommendations. we should have a precise division of responsibilities between the eu and the member states.
the rapporteur. (fi) mr president, i thank everyone for their speeches and support. i would like to inform those who thought that this responsibility belongs to the member states alone that i have been in contact with the ministers of health of all the member states and in a way they have already committed themselves in a very different way to this report after having been involved in its preparation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i thank the commissioner and mr harbour for the reports they have produced here, which i appreciate. it is a little ironic, however, that the best information on what happened at the summit has been found on the website of the radical party. the eu's own websites have contained very little information on this summit. what kind of information society are we living in? it is good that a summit was held, because international cooperation is needed in the field of network security. we think we have achieved something against spam by adopting the directive on privacy and electronic communications, but we have not got anywhere. as i said, international cooperation is needed. it was good that the final document contained statutes on technological neutrality, free competition, values and practices which have shown that europe is succeeding in creating an information society. the action plan and the final document contain, as is customary at international conferences, many good promises on how this should be developed and how we should be able to help the developing countries. countless international summits have now taken place, where we have made promises, such as education for all, and the fast track initiative within the world bank to help children and especially girls to get an education. despite this, nothing happens. as regards the fast track initiative of the world bank, the developed countries have not even been able to live up to their modest pledge of just over 300 million dollars. already after a year and a half, we're more than $100 million behind. when will the developing countries stop believing what is said in these international contexts? the liberals declared before this summit that we could not accept tunisia as the host country for the follow-up conference as long as freedom of expression was being violated there. in that respect, we are disappointed with the outcome.
(fi) mr president, mr commissioner, the development of information technology has been the greatest advance in the world in the last decade. it has completely revolutionized the way we manage, transfer and use information. whereas in the past it took thousands of pages of printed paper and extensive libraries and archives to store information, now the same amount is stored on internet sites and computer chips. in the past, the transfer of information required travel to the archives, copying of documents and mailing. now the same material can be viewed from a personal computer in your office. whereas in the past it took a few minutes to send a message by post and wait for it to arrive, today e-mail is sent in seconds to all parts of the world. there are no limits to the development of knowledge. the eu has seen this in many ways, including through the information society for all programme. the eu's development strategy to create the most competitive knowledge-based economy on our continent is therefore right on track. however, this development has a few limitations. the development of a balanced information society cannot be achieved by market forces alone. the development and construction of infrastructure must involve the community. it must ensure that the poor, young people and those facing exclusion are also able to use these services. at regional level, the networks must also cover sparsely populated and marginal areas. the eu's structural funds must be used. at the same time, monopolies must be broken. internet connections must be made affordable by opening up the last kilometre of the fibre to genuine competition. the cartels and monopolies in software and applications must also be prevented. the abuses themselves are a problem. the sending of spam and other deliberate disruptions must be made punishable. the development of the information society offers enormous opportunities for promoting both mental and material well-being. therefore, more attention must be given to this work.
the rapporteur. (fi) mr president, i would like to make an oral amendment by changing the words 'ms' in paragraphs 4, 9, 11, 13 and 15 to 'ms and other similar diseases'.
