mr president, it seems to me very important that we should be taking a position on serious subjects which are not directly related to the policies of the member states. but there is one thing we have learned since the agenda was set. we have heard that the british government is involved in bombing iraq on an almost daily basis. i think this is a very important point which should be of interest to this house. what is the point of being against the death penalty, against american criminals, or american innocents, while being otherwise in favour of the death penalty, for example, for iraqi civilians? the american government has admitted that the british took part in the bombing of al-qassidiyah, al-kut and basra.
mr president, i am the representative of a coastal and atlantic region of france, and therefore of europe, which has just been affected by the pollution of the prestige. i would like to say that people are really appalled by what is happening today, and that is mainly because this pollution is of a new kind, because it is chronic and because we do not know what it is called. i therefore believe that parliament would be honoured to accept the committee of inquiry which it has refused. we cannot want to tighten up the system of accountability and refuse a parliamentary body such as ours to go to the scene to investigate what happened and draw all the conclusions. secondly, i think we need to have a treatment plan for the wreck. we cannot leave thousands of fishermen, shellfish farmers and tourists waiting indefinitely without an industrial solution being proposed. i personally would like the european union to launch a call for projects quickly, so that we can try to find this industrial solution, which we are told exists, particularly at comex, which is one of the world's leading specialists in this field.
mr president, i would ask you to ask the commission what steps it intends to take to demand the reimbursement of the subsidies granted to the daewoo trust. it is indeed scandalous that this trust keeps the money collected, when it is closing its three factories in lorraine, france, and several other factories around the world. i consider it a waste of taxpayers' money to give subsidies to capitalist enterprises under the pretext of promoting employment, when these enterprises simply incorporate the sums received into their profits and into the dividends paid to their shareholders. after they have the money, how many of them cut jobs or even close factories, ruining cities and sometimes whole regions! it is a fraud, both at the expense of workers and taxpayers, and it is done with the complicity of the institutions, european and other, which continue to grant these subsidies.
- mr president, the napolitano report on regional and local authorities in the construction of europe has many qualities, and one major flaw: it should not exist. the principle which he himself recalls and which the community has followed since its inception is that the european institutions are based on a union of states. they respect the internal organisations of those states; the only interlocutors are the states and, when the regional level is involved in certain european policies, it is because the states, and behind them their national democracies, have wanted it that way and because they keep and must keep control of the process. in any case, the community does not have to decide - or even suggest - that regional and local authorities will participate more or in some other way in this or that european decisionmaking process, as the napolitano report indicates. on the contrary, as i explained in a minority opinion annexed to the report, the increase in the number of member states through enlargement makes the role of intermediaries and coordinators performed by the states more imperative than ever. it is hard to imagine the european union having direct relations with 250 or more regions, or listening to all their opinions. it would be unmanageable. in any case, national identity and the right of peoples to organise themselves as they see fit must be respected absolutely. the european union has no superior legitimacy to interfere in these matters. and if it does succeed in slipping through, it will open a pandora's box that will eventually lead to disunited nations and an ungovernable europe.
- mr commissioner, mr president, i am in favour of equality between the regions. even if some have legislative powers, this cannot give them superior or additional rights compared to others. otherwise we would have a two-tiered citizenship, with first-class europeans and second-class europeans. it is up to each state to give power to its regions if it so wishes. the question is being debated in several of our countries, in particular but not only in my own country, france. it is up to each state to consult its local authorities and regions in the context of european policies and their transposition. states are not necessarily doing it well, they could be doing it better, but it's a good track. i would remind you that the european union is not an aggregation of regions. it is a union of states and peoples. and each state must remain in control of its internal organisation, both institutionally and territorially. it is the text of the treaties, the current text, and we must preserve both the spirit and the letter of the treaty. no country can claim to have a better system than another. no country can impose its system on another. europe is a contract, not a constraint. so if i had to sum up, i would say: yes to strong and united regions in the european union, yes to regions cooperating across borders, but no to a europe of regions which would then be unequal and with a variable geometry.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the committee on civil liberties and the rapporteur, mrs joke swiebel, for the opportunity to discuss the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2001 in the plenary today. the report before you is a vast and ambitious document, seeking to provide an overview of the situation of fundamental rights in the european union and its member states and calling for concrete action by national authorities and the european institutions. as an example, i can mention the need to pursue a consistent policy of combating discrimination - against all forms of discrimination - and to promote integration into european societies in order to avoid manifestations of racism and xenophobia and to defend the rights underlying european citizenship. the european parliament's annual report on the situation of fundamental rights in the union is an important instrument for ensuring respect for these rights, both at european level and at the level of each member state, whether in the present union or in a union of 25 member states in the future. the commission, for its part, has a direct interest in the report which parliament is going to vote on, because, as mrs joke swiebel has just said, it requires us to take a series of concrete actions. i am committed to carefully considering the various recommendations which parliament may wish to make to us and we will of course take the appropriate measures to ensure that they are followed up. the commission has always responded to the challenges which parliament has put to it, and i believe that we have taken them up in a positive way so as to develop fruitful cooperation between the two institutions in this area. a good example of this cooperation is certainly the creation by the commission, following parliament's resolution of july 2001, of a network of experts on fundamental rights. in this resolution, based on the parliament's report for the year 2000 drawn up by mr cornillet, parliament clearly stated its commitment to a serious and concrete approach to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, calling for the creation of an appropriate instrument for monitoring and assessing the situation of fundamental rights both in the member states and in the european union. the commission, like parliament, is convinced that it is essential to know the situation regarding the protection of fundamental rights in order to be able to assess the quality of such protection, which must always be a rigorous and efficient assessment. this is the mission of the network of experts on fundamental rights. this network will enable both parliament and the commission to remain vigilant and ensure that the charter of fundamental rights is respected and enforced. we believe that the network must be allowed to function and begin to produce its results before moving on to more complex institutional solutions, such as the establishment of an observatory. the network is also responsible for informing parliament and the commission on the sensitive issue of the balance between security and freedom in the context of the fight against terrorism, a subject which will be given special attention in the report being drawn up as part of the network's work. this network of experts on fundamental rights became operational in october 2002 and in its report it should take into account developments in national legislation and the way in which it is applied, as well as developments in the case law of the court of justice of luxembourg and the court of justice of strasbourg, and the relevant case law of the national courts and constitutional courts of the member states. in this context, the important role which parliament and the commission are called upon to play has two aspects: on the one hand, to have an even clearer view of the situation of fundamental rights in the member states in order to take the necessary actions and decisions in this area in a targeted and precise manner within the framework of the powers conferred by the treaties on the european institutions; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. in this connection, i would like to recall that placing fundamental rights at the heart of the european project means defending the thesis that the convention on the future of europe and the subsequent intergovernmental conference should incorporate the charter of fundamental rights into the constitutional treaty of the union and give it binding legal force. the european union is an area of freedom, security and justice which lacks strict protection of fundamental rights. the drafting of a constitutional treaty, of a genuine european constitution which takes up the charter of fundamental rights as an integral part of it and which at the same time and in parallel authorizes the accession of the european union to the european convention on human rights, is a major challenge which we are facing and which we must overcome. but at the same time, the quality of the protection of fundamental rights must be assessed in a pragmatic and effective way. this report, the debate in this house and the final resolution of parliament will certainly make an important contribution to the commission's work on fundamental rights in the following year.
- mr president, without wishing to deny the certainly considerable work of mrs swiebel, i would nevertheless like to be a little critical of this report, which i think has missed its opportunity and is perhaps a report for nothing. as commissioner vitorino has pointed out, last year parliament clearly identified a number of points on the basis of the new fact of the adoption of the charter of fundamental rights, which we all hope will become the preamble to a constitution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, this idea has not been followed up and this report, in my view, reflects more what the rapporteur thinks than the in-depth analysis which would have been desirable. the methodology was simple: the whole charter, but nothing but the charter. the whole of the charter, which means that we must first analyse article by article, state by state - there are 15 this year, soon there will be 25 - to see whether they are respecting the charter of fundamental rights, and then value by value, on the chapters solidarity and justice, to provide a global view of these great values, to see whether they are respected in the european union. it is an opportunity to go beyond the strict application of the charter in respect of union law in states which derogate from it, and it was an opportunity for parliament to acquire a power of control over the action of states, a power which no one can challenge to a parliament in matters of public liberty. so i think it took a certain humility to do this benedictine work. of course, this did not prevent the emphasis from being placed on a number of topics dear to the rapporteurs, which this year was made possible by the terrorism following the events of september 2001. the whole charter, then, but only the charter, that is to say the articles as they are and not as we would like them to be; the report we are voting on tomorrow has absolutely no bearing on the charter, since only a new convention, which would have to be convened, is in a position to change the articles of the charter. there are other means of action, resolutions, occasionally, directives, etc. we can also call for a new convention, as i have just said. activism can also be carried out in one's own country, since each state is free to go beyond the minimum standard set by the charter of fundamental rights. i would like to take this opportunity to denounce very briefly a certain attitude which i consider irresponsible and demagogic, and which has allowed certain amendments by the far left and the greens to be accepted thanks to, i would say, the complicity of the party of european socialists. i deplore him, because by doing so he is accepting things here which are not in the programme of any socialist party in any country. i would like to conclude, mr president, by expressing my regret. we have here a report which could have been awaited by the press and feared by the states, which could have been used as a point of reference, as a beacon. i am afraid that the 2001 report, which was adopted too late, will be buried in the graveyard of useless reports. the epp will not vote for it, as it does not intend to join the funeral. (applause from the right)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, rather than discuss in detail some of the extremely questionable positions in the swiebel report - there is no shortage of them - i should like to illustrate by an example the gap that exists in our country between the stated intentions and the concrete reality: we are in principle in a european area, a judicial area which is theoretically a space of freedom - freedom of opinion, freedom of expression. well, it seems that this freedom doesn't exist for everyone. i would like to give you an example from my own city of lyon: a young historian, mr jean plantin, to whom i have already referred, is currently under threat of being suspended and may be the first prisoner of conscience in france. what is mr. plantin's crime? he edited a magazine. a perfectly correct review. a magazine that is not insulting to anyone. a serious and scientific review. true, history is freely discussed in this magazine, and especially the seemingly taboo chapter of history, the history of world war ii. it is also very understandable - and the interests of certain lobbies, pressure groups, political forces and foreign states are very great - that they all have an interest in ensuring that this story is read unilaterally and officially. but may i say that the judges of the court of appeal of lyon, in convicting jean plantin, have given a judgment which does not honour - to say the least - our fundamental freedoms and which will go down in the annals as an example of the unbearable police of thought denounced by one of our greatest journalists. i cannot accept that historians are now, as in other european countries, in prison for their ideas, their convictions and their analyses. this is an absolutely intolerable situation, just as the withdrawal of the university degrees awarded to jean plantin more than ten years ago is intolerable. this unbearable situation must end.
- mr president, we shall vote for the few recommendations which defend basic rights, denounce racism and xenophobia, or oppose the death penalty, although they are likely to remain mere recommendations. but how can we talk about fundamental rights when the right to employment, the right to a decent wage, is not guaranteed, because the decision belongs to a minority of capital owners who have the royal power to close their businesses and to throw their employees into misery? what are the considerations of solidarity worth when, in france for example, instead of fighting poverty, laws against the poor are being tightened under the pretext of security? the report itself illustrates the value of these calls for equality and dignity, as it calls for the intensification of the fight against illegal immigration, justifying it by the fact that this immigration is the source of labour deprived of rights and subject to unacceptable conditions of employment and exploitation. but why does the report not propose to fight those who impose these unacceptable conditions of exploitation? why does he not propose to fight against governments which deny immigrants basic rights? you talk about rights and freedoms. but to the poorest, and even to the working majority of the population, these are just empty words. because in this mercantile society, money gives all rights, including the right to trample on the rights and freedoms of others.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate mrs swiebel on the fruitful work she has done this year (in particular the recognition of the rights of foreigners and the introduction of the rejection of double punishment), but i regret that the deadline for the report has been greatly exceeded, thus hampering my work and that of my future colleagues. as mrs swiebel's successor for 2002, i want to work in the spirit of this charter, to work in a spirit of continuity and to give it full visibility. to this end, two public hearings are scheduled, with the originality of involving young people, via high school students' delegations, and the media, with the participation of representatives of renowned media. it is our duty to raise awareness, to inform and to involve young people, and to involve and mobilise opinion leaders, because they are the best vehicle for bringing europe closer to the citizens and for ensuring that it is better anchored in the daily lives of europeans. in concrete terms, as regards the examination of the situation of fundamental rights, my report, like the previous ones, will be based on the structure of the charter and will highlight certain points which i will consider to be my political priorities. i hope that my report will be a progressive report in general. (summary declaration made under article 120 (7) of the regulation)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rail network is not affected by the current crisis. it is also a key issue for railway europe in the 21st century. although rail is a sustainable means of transport, it is cheaper than road in terms of external costs, it is more environmentally friendly and safer, despite all these advantages, there has been a decline in freight transport over the last twenty years. i think there are three main reasons for this. first, there are industrial strategies that favour the road, management with tense flows, with multiplication of displacements, dispersal and fragmentation. secondly, there is a distortion of competition between road and rail, i.e. the particularly low level of social standards of road in comparison with rail. i am thinking in particular of the fact that the regulation on driving time which is the subject of the markov report which is to be discussed this morning does not go very far. despite the proposals by my colleague mr markov and the committee on social affairs to reduce the working time to 45 hours, it is still 56 hours, which is clearly still far too much. finally, there is the observation, which i share, that the construction of the various networks according to national schemes has limited trade and, in fact, led to insufficient cooperation and incompatible standards. the whole point of my report was precisely to develop the compatibility of standards by aligning the two existing directives, one on the high-speed network and the other on the traditional network, and also by making a series of proposals to go further and faster in harmonization. i should also like to say that my report is very closely linked to the report on the agency. that is why what has been decided on the agency on a number of points must, for the sake of coherence of the package, be reflected in my report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. firstly, in order to achieve interoperability, it seems to me absolutely necessary to take account of the skills and know-how of the professionals in the sector. the european union will not develop rail harmonisation without the participation of the rail sector. one example: it was at one of the meetings with the employees that the latter proposed the recording device. i took up the proposal because i thought it was relevant. today it is supported by everyone and it is in the report. secondly, i also believe, from all the meetings i have had, that there is an inescapable link between harmonization and safety rules. this harmonization cannot be achieved at a minimum. the level of security varies from one part of the european union to another. the tendency to lower safety standards to facilitate access to infrastructure would be counterproductive, even dangerous. harmonisation has nothing to gain from less security. one question remains unanswered, and that is the financial question. the investment needs to move to this new stage are enormous. no specific budgetary provision is envisaged, although it would be necessary. i welcome the compromise reached on the sterckx report, in article 29, with the emphasis on social dialogue. i also find the compromise on the savary report, concerning the participation of employee representatives in the drawing up of the technical specifications for interoperability (tsis) which concern them, very important. in the interests of consistency between the various texts and of unity in the package, i propose three oral amendments which take up the compromises made on the reports by my colleagues sterckx and savary. i also propose an amendment on financial matters and, although i know that not everyone shares this view, i hope that everyone will understand the importance of this. the whole package is very important given what is at stake. we have a huge responsibility for the future, since we are the europe of the railways of the 21st century. i would also like to give my opinion on the whole package. the report by my colleague mr jarzembowski proposes the complete liberalisation of rail transport for freight in 2003 and for domestic passengers in 2008. i must say that i am concerned about the proposals which are being made, following on from those of the commission, to speed up liberalization. the transposition of the first package is only beginning in the member states and there is therefore no assessment of its consequences. i remain concerned about the respect of the conclusions of the barcelona council which, quite logically, called for a report and an evaluation to be carried out before any new proposal is made. the revitalization of the railway is an ambition i share. i think that harmonization of standards is quite appropriate, as is the need for an agency and strict safety provisions. but i do not see why and how we should necessarily link the development of railways with opening up to competition. the sterckx report on safety is also very important, since it is concerned, in particular, with the commission, with harmonizing safety standards. however, the harmonisation of safety standards must take account of the reality of the sector, in particular the time taken for implementation. it is useless, and it can even be harmful, to try to go too fast in applying european standards. in conclusion, i would like to recall what i consider to be a twofold challenge: that of sustainable development and revitalization in a field of activity, rail, where the actors count, with their knowledge and skills, whether they are operators or employees. europe must and can show them that it is proposing the development of railways with them. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would first like to greet the commissioner and then thank all the colleagues in the committee on transport who have worked very passionately on these dossiers. firstly, the four rapporteurs, who have done an excellent job, and all the political groups. i think we have all put a lot of heart into this second railway package, because we feel that it is necessary to move the railway europe forward. i think it is necessary to say first of all, for all those who have any fears or reservations, that europe needs the railway because it will have considerable environmental problems in the years to come - and public opinion would not forgive us for not having developed alternative modes of transport to the road - and secondly because europe is an opportunity for the railway and not a constraint or a threat. what is clear is that the railway systems inherited from the old nation states are no longer up to the challenge. the commissioner said that this is evident, particularly in the area of freight, where, in a region like mine, the cancer of the lorry and the car is becoming more and more pervasive and where public opinion is asking us every day to provide solutions. i therefore believe that we must all take a very firm stand towards the construction of this railway europe. today, there are actually three solutions, or attitudes, that prevail. there is the problem of national crispness - that is to say, protectionism which is not justified - of corporatism, of national clientelism. i think that this path, which is not foreign to france or germany, is not the right one. we must not be afraid of european openness. once again, this is a chance for the railroad world. there is a second way, and i think what just happened with the "prestige" or the "erika" should make us think about it. transport has a price and a cost. and transport cannot be a policy of price reduction through excessive competition. we should not ignore what has just happened in the maritime world, which is leading us today to impose standards and probably to increase the cost of shipping for dangerous goods, thinking that in the railway sector we are going in the opposite direction and that the policy of dumping at any cost, of competition at any cost, is an end in itself. i believe that the third way, in the railway sector, is that of controlled opening up, that is to say, one which, while requiring the opening up of the networks, preserves the gains of railway culture and know-how. for me, it's the swiss way. the first, french and german, is too conservative; the second, british and dutch, is too conservative; the third, british and dutch, is too conservative; the third, british and dutch, is too conservative; the fourth, british and dutch, is too conservative; the third, british and dutch, is too conservative; the fourth, british and dutch, is too conservative; the third, british and dutch, is too conservative; the fourth, british and dutch, is too conservative; the fifth, british and dutch, too conservative; the sixth, british and dutch, too conservative; the sixth, british and dutch, too conservative; the sixth, british and dutch, too conservative; the sixth, british and dutch, too conservative; the sixth, british and dutch, too conservative; the sixth, british and dutch, too conservative; the sixth, british and dutch, too conservative; the sixth, british and dutch, too conservative; the third, british and dutch, too conservative; the sixth, british and dutch, too conservative; the third, british and dutch too conservative. the third way, openness in functional integration, that is to say the swiss way, seems to me to be our constant model; if we do not, we will be faced with very serious setbacks. of course, europe must now be the conductor of this policy, particularly by implementing european rules and harmonization measures which are binding on all member states. in the area of safety, i believe this is a top priority, because railways are part of a safety culture. it is therefore very important that we embark on this path, and i thank commissioner de palacio for the proposals which form the basis of these four very important texts. as regards the text by mr dirk sterckx, which i think is very important, we must be very aware that security policy must not be a policy of dilution of responsibilities. it must not be a bottom-up policy on safety, but on the contrary a genuinely demanding policy, preserving the functional integration of the railway while ensuring political and legal independence. as regards the report by my colleague mrs ainardi, i simply wish to see the amendments which are compatible with those concerning the agency voted on. finally, on my report on an agency for the harmonization of railway safety, 48 amendments were voted by the committee responsible. i thought we could stop there, but a 49th just came in. in fact, what we wanted was first of all that this agency should be an executive agency of the commission, managed as much as possible by the commission: and we have an amendment which says that the commission should preside over it. we are therefore in the executive branch, which means that parliament is not represented there. i would like the member states not to overbid, that is to say, to remain at six, and to adopt an executive rather than a parliamentary, that is to say, legislative, stance. i think they should have that coquettishness. secondly, we wanted to make the agency the common home of the european railway. i am personally convinced that there will be no european railway if all the railway partners are not invited to build it together and among themselves. that is why we have proposed that the board of directors should include representatives of the railway industry as a whole. you'll see that this will unblock a lot of things. finally, we want to have advisory committees, investigative authorities and security authorities, and i have to tell you that i would personally be very upset if amendment no 49 were to be voted on, because it actually destroys the whole of this proposal. i think we had a sufficiently good vote on the agency to stick to what had been voted on in the committee on transport. i will go no further; i would like to comment on the report by my colleague mr jarzembowski, but i do not have time for that and i will do so in private.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the reports on the development of rail transport contain excellent points. mr jarzembowski is right to be concerned about the decline of rail transport compared with road and air transport. the commission notes that, in the freight sector, the railway market share fell from 21% to 8% in europe between 1970 and 1998. yet the amount of goods to be transported has increased dramatically and more people are travelling. this has had disastrous consequences in three areas. the environment, because the road and the airplane pollute more than the railway; traffic, with the congestion of the road network and the air corridors; and finally, the safety of people, because the train is a safer means of transport than the road, on which tens of thousands of people die every year in europe. the french are particularly affected by these consequences. if there are more accidents in france, it is not, as the french government claims, because the french are more careless than their european neighbors. the reason is that the main roads on our network, which are used by lorries connecting the mediterranean countries with those in northern and eastern europe, are now congested. these trucks can occupy the road for many miles and cause many accidents and traffic jams. the ordeal experienced by the thousands of motorists stuck in -5°c overnight on january 4th and 5th is of course the consequence of the snowfall, but also and especially the failure of the motorway services and the presence of trucks blocked on the road by the snow. however, the proposals contained in the reports of our colleagues, which are those of the commission, do not always seem to me to be adapted to the situation. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the railway system. why is the french government not doing what the swiss authorities have done? to set up a railway network and to require lorries to use it when crossing french territory. why do many french companies rely on trucks and not trains to transport their products? why do millions of french people take their cars instead of public transport? because the sncf, under the control of the unions, is performing less and less of its public service mission. because the french no longer feel safe on public transport because of the insecurity that sometimes exists and the thugs that are rampant. because the automobile is, in an increasingly regulated society, one of the last instruments of freedom. these are realities our leaders ignore; with public cars, they dream of what was the rule under mao - and many maoists have converted to ecology - that the people take the old public transport or bicycles and continue to use the means that the community makes available to them.
- strongly committed to public service, i consider that this second railway package is not very good. the effects of the first railway package, which i voted against, are not yet known in practice, nor is the package still in force, but we are now being offered a second package, which is just as bad as the first. the jarzembowski report aims to accelerate competition and attempts to apply road transport standards to rail transport, with all the disastrous consequences that this entails. it is clear that the opening up of the rail freight market will lead to increased competition, which is likely to lead to a reduction in the number of jobs. that is the logic of this report: more liberalization for fewer jobs. as for the report on security, it is primarily concerned with liberalisation and security is now just a pretext. the explanatory memorandum too often states that the security argument is used in this case to protect the internal market and exclude new entrants. yes, market and security are incompatible. i shall vote for the following two reports, even if the resources allocated to achieve interoperability are weak, insufficient and if the agency remains locked into the framework in which it was conceived, namely liberalisation. an example of total liberalisation in transport is maritime traffic, with its repeated ecological and human catastrophes. liberalisation in the sectors now regulated will lead to profits for a few and, for all the others, to accidents and poor working conditions, low wages, redundancies, a deterioration in the services provided to users. unfortunately, there are already many examples, from the bankruptcy of sabena to that of air lib, not to mention the british railways. however, i am strongly in favour of a high-quality european public service, cooperation between networks, harmonization of working conditions, safety standards, wages and social rights, and control by the people and workers over their public services. in short, i am opposed to this second railway package.
mr president, this second opportunity to speak gives me the opportunity to speak perhaps a little more specifically on the proposal by mr jarzembowski. the commission's proposal is based on two very important innovations: the first is to abolish the transeuropean rail freight network and to anticipate a total liberalisation of the international, national, local and regional freight networks by 2006, and the second is to open up and liberalise rail passenger transport. as regards the first proposal, i am one of those who believe that a strong political move is needed in the direction of the railways, and if it is not advisable to change the dates constantly, i would personally follow my colleague jarzembowski on the matter of freight, since the situation is so worrying today. on the other hand, i would be infinitely more reserved about international passenger transport. i do not consider this to be a top priority for railways, unlike freight. and i, who often travel by train, have no particular difficulty crossing borders. what i do know is that there is considerable commercial greed involved, and i am not one of those who are confined here to creating a railway market; i am one of those who wish to see a move towards a european transport policy, which is a little different. to conclude, in a way, on the whole of today's debate, what is clear is that, whether there is openness or not, the construction of a railway europe cannot be reduced to liberalization, competition or openness of networks. or else we will have market shares that will substitute for each other within the same modal share for rail without being able to substitute rail for the car. there are therefore other aspects of transport policy to be implemented. there is pricing and in particular the reduction of the social and fiscal gap between the different modes and, in particular, between road and rail, which seems to me to be a priority if we want openness to be a gain on the road, rather than simply the construction of a rail market. there's also an investment policy. personally, from this point of view, i hope that this debate will be a very strong message from the european parliament to the council. for several months now the council has been completely deadlocked on the financing of the transeuropean networks, it has been sticking to a regressive approach, it does not want to hear about taxation, fuel taxation or large european borrowings. i think that, in the absence of a large, ambitious policy and rail infrastructure, the opening-up efforts we are making will be a fight between railway companies rather than a conquest on the road. that, ladies and gentlemen, is the message i wanted to convey to the council, also on behalf of the european parliament.
mr president, the increasing opening up of the european railway network to competition, as advocated in the jarzembowski report, is a retrograde step, seriously damaging both the interests of users and railway workers. voting in favour of this report is tantamount to behaving like vulgar agents of the private interest lobby, which wants to dismantle the public service railways. it is well known that private companies which are only interested in their profits will save on investment or on labour. it is well known that the privatisation of the british railways has led to disasters. we refuse to sacrifice the interests of the community so that a few private groups can make money off the backs of users, perhaps even risking their lives. the railway must be a unified public service throughout the continent and we reject this report and any proposal for privatization.
- mr president, a small incident yesterday put me at odds with the chairman of the sitting. i should like to speak, pursuant to rule 122 of our rules of procedure, when the minutes are adopted. can you confirm that the minutes will be adopted early this afternoon, since they were not ready this morning?
the rapporteur. - mr president, for unfortunate technical reasons, the amendments i had tabled to my report were not tabled. i should like to say at the outset, before we go to the vote on amendments, that for reasons of consistency in the package as a whole i have decided to reintroduce some of them in the form of oral amendments. there are two amendments which correspond to the new wording proposed for article 3 of the report on the agency. there is a recital which refers to the amendment of article 29 of the safety report. there is another amendment, which expresses my wish to raise the question of funding. i'd like to hear what my colleagues think.
- mr president, i would like to propose to mr méndez de vigo, the author of this amendment, that it be withdrawn. it is a very important issue which i know is of great importance to the spanish people, since it is to president felipe gonzales that we owe the introduction into the treaties and the great advance of the concept of european citizenship. however, it seems to me that this is not just a linguistic or philosophical question, it is a major one. it defines the source of the union's legitimacy. does this parliament wish to move from a classical definition of the union, of states and peoples, to the concept of a union of states and citizens? it seems to me that, for the sake of the seriousness of our institution, it would be better to deal with this question as such rather than to do so in a hurry, in favour of an amendment to one of the recitals of a report dealing with a very different subject.
- once upon a time there was the white dove (european) and the evil eagle (american)... this myth that the report tells would not even make children believe that the us government is the only one that subsidizes its airlines. as if the european union, through the european consortium airbus and a few others, to give just one example, were not doing the same! it is as if the member states were not helping their airlines, whether public or private! the commission should therefore publish the enormous amounts of direct or indirect, open or hidden subsidies which the european union and its member states are giving to the air and aviation sectors and their shareholders. we did not approve this report, which is hypocritical in form and scandalous in substance, because we are opposed to the 'compensations' advocated in the report, which are in fact new subsidies to the capitalists in the airline sector. we are particularly opposed to your whole system, which is based on competition and trade wars, which are costing society dearly.
in writing. - mr jarzembowski's report seems to us to take advantage of the commission's proposal to extend the scope of greater opening to competition in a sector for which the concept of public service seems to us to be fundamental. such an opening up of the sector to competition, and in the short term of the railway infrastructure of the member states, could hamper the development of community railways, particularly because of the instability and uncertainty it would introduce into a market which requires high levels of technology and long-term investment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the public service is not restricted to the exclusive use of the public service, and that the public service is not restricted to the use of the public service. at present, a few national examples demonstrate the imperfections of a system whose sole objective is the pursuit of the greatest profit; the commission has unfortunately not taken account of the consequences of such a system, which are perfectly measurable, and has hidden them for purely dogmatic purposes. that is why we voted against the report by mr jarzembowski.
in writing. - the european commission proposes in this 'railway package' a new version of directive 91/440 which aims to further liberalise rail transport, mainly for freight. the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism of parliament has added, by its amendments, the liberalisation of passenger transport. i'll vote against both. why this acceleration of liberalization when the 1991 directive has just been revised? why go back on an agreement, a balance, that was hard-won just over a year ago, before member states had even completed transposing the revised 2001 directive? this means that the effects of the liberalisation that has been initiated will not be assessed until further steps are taken which will create an irreversible situation. it is simplistic to claim that the loss of competitiveness of rail freight compared to road transport is mainly due to the lack of liberalisation. it was not necessary to liberalise rail passenger transport in order to achieve successful cooperation between national operators in respect of thalys. what works for passengers could be developed for freight transport. the will must still exist, and european and national investments must be on hand. let's really choose the rail instead of the truck! (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - under the pretext of overcoming the national fragmentation of the european rail network, which should have been unified long ago, you are imposing a fragmentation, even more serious, between private interests competing with each other. the pretense of developing a 'community security system' is at best a reflection of your own concern at this obvious fact: private interest groups, concerned with maximising their profits, will not give priority to investing in people and equipment to ensure adequate security. but in reality you only invoke security to oppose the possibility of 'complementary national rules' 'limiting the opening up of the market'. the security you speak of is minimal security, which will lead to disaster. we reject the report and say that the public service nature of rail transport should not be affected. we are also opposed to the idea of a public service being emptied of all content in the race for profitability.
in writing. - we are of course in favour of the interoperability of the transeuropean rail system and of some of the measures proposed in this report. but this interoperability is proposed in a railway package which aims to generalise competition in rail transport and open it up to privatisation. the report stresses long-term profitability, is concerned about the loss of railway competitiveness, but does not expressly oppose privatisation and competition or the dismantling of the public service that this implies. this is in line with the policy of abandoning public service. we therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. - i want to congratulate sylviane ainardi on her excellent work. the report is part of the 'railway package' which aims to promote rail development by creating an integrated railway area. this is achieved in particular through the interoperability of the trans-european rail system, which is a prerequisite for smooth international traffic. until now, very different national technical specifications and standards, often incompatible with each other, have created obstacles to the use of the train as a means of transport. i regret this as a railway activist for reasons of both environmental protection and public safety. i therefore welcome the european commission's proposals to try to coordinate the different tsis (technical specifications for interoperability). however, harmonization must not be done from below in the field of security! it will therefore be necessary to carry out an assessment of the benefits that can be expected from each its project in terms of market share, traffic development, and also environmental, safety and social aspects. given the prevailing ideology in this area, public service advocates must be vigilant!
in writing. - i would first like to express my satisfaction with the report by mr markov, which supports the commission's proposal for a new regulation on road transport, which was presented in october 2001. the report includes improvements made by the new regulation to the present situation, with the dual objective of improving road safety and improving the working conditions of drivers. the measures such as the abolition of the possibility of splitting breaks, the extension of the scope of application and the strengthening of penalties for infringements of the regulation, which were included in the commission proposal and are included in the report, represent important milestones. the markov report further strengthens the regulation, for example by opposing the creation of a flexible week, introducing a limit on working hours, giving a definition of driving time or by encouraging the involvement of the social partners. i would particularly like to stress the importance of the measure to extend the scope of the regulation to all road drivers who drive in europe, whether they are eu nationals or not. this measure will have the effect of reducing social dumping considerably, while encouraging third countries to strengthen their national legislation in favour of the working conditions of their road hauliers. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. - the proposed text is probably a step forward for countries where there is no legislation at all or where legislation is extremely unfavourable to workers in this field. but it is revolting that a text entitled 'social provisions' should envisage 56-hour driving weeks! we also consider it unacceptable that in order to improve things in some countries, they are made worse in countries with the highest levels of protection. the only acceptable harmonisation is to standardise the highest level of social protection and working conditions. this is the only way to prevent transport employers in france from employing workers who are less well paid and less protected, and who come from countries whose legislation, particularly as regards the length of the driving day, is either non-existent or unfavourable to lorry drivers. furthermore, laws which protect workers in some way should not be left untouched, as is often the case, but should be imposed on employers by force.
in writing. - the aim is to simplify the rules governing the organisation of driving and rest periods in the union, in order to improve road safety and the working conditions of the persons covered by the regulation. the proposal also aims to make the current rules compatible with the use of the new digital tachograph, in order to improve compliance with the existing rules. the report by my colleague helmuth markov is in line with the positive proposals of the european commission: the abolition of the possibility of splitting breaks, the reduction of exemptions, the abolition of the provisions on the minimum age of drivers, the strengthening of penalties for infringements of the regulation. but the rapporteur has also succeeded in getting through amendments which i think are essential. the report rejects the provisions on the flexible working week, it strengthens controls and sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the provisions of the regulation, and it strengthens the involvement of the social partners. the rapporteur, however, was unable to get the amendment to be voted on, which rightly proposed a reduction in the working week to 45 hours. so it was reintroduced in plenary and i voted in favour of it, of course!
in writing. - we fully support the need to harmonize social standards in road transport. our concern is not to solve distortions of competition with third countries, but to guarantee road workers the best working conditions, status and pay. but in this area, there are no half measures to be taken in a sector abandoned to liberal savagery. it is right to oppose the flexible working week, to limit working hours, to specify the minimum age of drivers for the transport of goods. the controls must be strengthened, employers must be sanctioned for breaches of the rules and the social partners must be involved more closely. but the markov report is insufficient in terms of weekly driving time and the possibility of splitting breaks. reducing the weekly driving time from the current 56 hours to 45 hours is not satisfactory. it is unacceptable to allow the division of rest time. both of these measures perpetuate the fact that road workers are wage-earners outlawed for the greater benefit of the market. that is why, while we are in favour of progressive social measures, we have not voted for this report.
in writing. - during yesterday's debate in this house i pointed out that the participation of the regions in the european decisionmaking process advocated by the napolitano report would open a pandora's box from which many surprises would then emerge. we have had some glimpses of this at the meeting of the committee on constitutional affairs, which, no doubt carried away by its impulse, voted for strange provisions, such as the right of regional and local authorities to adapt european legislation to local needs. of course, the members of the committee who voted for such provisions were subsequently repudiated by their groups, and parliament has just made corrections in plenary. but he only corrected the most obvious flaws. the rest, which tends to circumvent the states more subtly, has been retained. these false maneuvers only showed in the open what this report would lead to if it were implemented. the house also voted an amendment stating that the union would now be based on the legitimacy, not of the 'peoples' (taken as a whole), but of the 'citizens' (taken individually). such a development would change the nature of the union and bring it closer to a nation state. we therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - in addition to being an unacceptable interference in the constitutional organization of the member states, this report is sewn together with a white thread: as always, it is a matter of destroying nations by upsetting the internal political order of the states, in order to build a federal europe. the argument put forward to bring the union closer to the citizens is a fraud. complementing the work undertaken at supranational level, the work of transferring the powers of the states from above to the european union, parliament is in reality only seeking to empty the nations of their sovereignty from below. the naïve who are sensitive to the sirens of local democracy or new governance, concepts fabricated by the ruling techno-structure, should know that the decentralisation promoted by and for the federalists will be nothing but a zero-sum game: in the end, it is brussels which, by absorbing the new prerogatives provisionally granted to local entities, will benefit from a process which it will have wisely controlled. let the candidates ponder this moral of la fontaine: "whatever eats you, man or wolf, all flesh seems to me one in this respect; "one day earlier, one day later, it doesn't make much difference".
mr president, i can assure you at once that i shall not use the three minutes of the debate for a personal matter to which i am entitled under rule 122 (2) of the rules of procedure of this parliament. i would just like to mention a small incident which occurred between me and the president of the sitting, mr provan, which is not serious in itself, but which i find unpleasant. i asked to be allowed to intervene, as other colleagues have done, in the matter of fixing the agenda. i wanted to raise the issue of the british bombing of iraq and ask that our parliament hear mr javier solana to see how these actions fit into the framework of the common foreign and security policy. so it was quite an intervention on the agenda. it so happens that mr provan interrupted me before i had finished my one-minute speech, which prevented him from grasping that it was indeed a speech on the agenda. i can hardly understand mr provan's misunderstanding of this matter. what i find most unacceptable is that it has in a way deprived me of the right to speak on all the other subjects on which the rules allow me to speak. i think i was the first to want to speak on the proposal of one speaker on the agenda for north korea. mr provan has blatantly disregarded my request to speak, although i was the first to make a request. finally, under rule 121a of our rules of procedure, i was also entitled to speak for one minute. i had an assistant check my registration. mr provan again refused to give me the floor, although he had been told by the sitting services surrounding him that i was registered under rule 121a. mr provan said that he knew what i wanted to talk about and that therefore he had decided not to give me the floor, as he had not approved my first speech. i think that interpretation is a little bit abusive. i think that the president of the sitting should, in the exercise of his duties, give the floor to a member when he is exercising his right in accordance with the rules of procedure, without prejudice to what that member is going to say.
mr president-in-office of the council, allow me to put to the test the whole of the capacity for reflection inherited from greek philosophy, one of the breasts of european political philosophy, by asking you to show imagination, insight and lucidity in your role as president of the council. let's start with the iraq crisis. no, mr poettering, you are wrong when you say that we cannot do this or that. if we want a un position, we must also say what needs to be decided in the security council; we cannot always take refuge behind the security council without specifying what it should decide. so far, there is no evidence of renewed aggression by dictator saddam hussein. there is no proof ! if the secret services have evidence, they should announce it in all the newspapers! if they have proof of what saddam hussein has, he must know it too. so if that's the case, it's no secret to anyone in iraq, not even mr. saddam hussein. if he has weapons, he knows where he hides them, and if the cia or other intelligence agencies know where those weapons are, we can tell everyone, because, anyway, the enemy knows. so i don't understand this strategy. that is why we are asking you, mr president-in-office, to be both socrates and plato, that is to say, to bring together mr chirac, mr blair, mr aznar and mr schröder, the presidents of the four governments represented in the united nations security council, around a table to define a european position which says no to military intervention, which would not only be harmful to everyone, but which would not solve any other problem. we must have the courage to say what we expect from the security council and i believe that the european union has a decisive role to play in this respect. we said yes, part of my group was actually against, but i have always said yes to the need for military intervention in afghanistan, military intervention in kosovo. but today, all those who said yes to these interventions must say no to unnecessary intervention. we have to tell the security council. britain and france have a veto that would prevent such an intervention. the european union must have the strength to say no, precisely at a time when north korea has weapons of destruction, when it can make the atomic bomb and when we are - rightly - going to negotiate with it. we are actually pursuing a policy of nuclear proliferation by telling dictators who already have nuclear weapons: 'we will not do anything to you' and those who do not yet have nuclear weapons: 'we will beat you to death'. it is like saying: "dictators of all countries, hurry up and get nuclear weapons, and then we will not do anything to you and we will negotiate with you". that is the platonic logic being applied by the government in washington at the moment. i ask athens to say no to this completely insane logic. i would then like to turn to the spring summit and sustainable development. i agree, but what are the indicators for the environment, the economy, the social indicators? these indicators must be in balance. it is therefore necessary to draw up in thessaloniki a genuine list of indicators and a strategy for assessing and putting sustainable development into perspective. it would be a truly historic initiative, a first. there are many proposals here and there, but nothing more. you speak of maritime safety, very well! but where are the environmental responsibilities? who's paying for the erika? who's paying for the prestige? to give you an example: 11 million was paid by the erika officials. this is a scandal! it is a scandal because those responsible for maritime disasters have to pay for everything. they have to take all the risk and until they are forced to take responsibility, all the responsibility, they will do anything. you know what i am talking about, since greece is one of the countries with the greatest responsibilities in this sector. you mentioned cyprus, after all. of course you want a united cyprus. but then, on the turkish side and on the greek side, we must finally face the problem of greek nationalism and turkish nationalism. one of the last obstacles to the possibility of unifying cyprus is the result of these two nationalisms, i would even say of the joint action of denktash and clerides. the cypriot people, the people of the north and the people of the south want something other than their representatives. so i believe that we all have to have the strength and the courage to give a future to people who want that future. finally, you will be truly socrates and plato together, if you succeed in solving the problem of the status of members of parliament. if you succeed, i invite you to dinner in the parisian restaurant of your choice because you will have become a great master in politics.
- mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner, i should like to mention two points which concern me, i should say, in your speeches. the first is that, mr president-in-office, you have not really developed your project on maritime safety. i hope we will not be in for any unpleasant surprises, because as you know, the citizens of europe, of galicia and france, are waiting impatiently, if not desperately, for europe to come to their aid, to put in place strict rules, clear rules, to ensure the safety of maritime transport and to prevent pollution. we know, of course, how much greece is involved in this area; we therefore ask ourselves whether it will support, for example, the creation of a european coastguard unit, a corps of 'green helmets' to organise the volunteers so sorely needed in galicia. will it impose the designation of safe harbours ? i shall end with that, mr president. the second issue that concerns me is the spring summit. i am sorry to say to you again - and i am also addressing the president of the commission - that you are off the subject, because the spring summit had a specific objective, namely to measure progress or backwardness in sustainable development through the union's policies. this is a very trivial summit you are preparing. yet there is urgency. i will give just one example: will the union continue to provide financial aid to multinational companies without any compensation, without ensuring a lasting employment for employees? i am thinking, of course, of the workers at daewoo in lorraine, who are once again facing a recession, despite the fact that the union and the lorraine region had invested in this restructuring by granting considerable financial aid. this is unsustainable development. so what i would like your spring reports to do is to present real policies, which take account of the environment to avoid destroying it and which also create really sustainable jobs.
- mr president-in-office of the council, since its last presidency, greece has changed a great deal, since it has become a fervent supporter of the turkish candidacy. in a way we can understand the position of the greek government, since it is trying to get its problem out from above, by transferring it to the european union. but at union level, as i have said on many occasions to my colleagues in this house, we should not accept what looks like a leap forward without further thought. the position of greece on the institutional front has surprised us a little. the prime minister, mr costas simitis, who is here, recently said in a french newspaper, and i quote him exactly: 'the greek view is that we must have a strong commission, not two decision-making bodies, the commission and the council, otherwise the european union risks turning into an intergovernmental union and not into the federal model we want.' if you read this sentence carefully, you will find that the greek government believes that the commission should be a stronger decision-making body than the council. we are far from an intergovernmental union, but also far from the traditional community model. i hope the prime minister will deny me earlier. as regards the priorities of the greek presidency, we welcome the emphasis on immigration, asylum and the management of external borders, which have indeed become of major importance today. we therefore call on the presidency to show the utmost firmness in these areas, particularly in the fight against illegal immigration. finally, we are surprised that these priorities do not include a specific chapter on economic and monetary union, especially since greece could have presented not only priorities for the future but also a review of the past. this assessment would have been very justified, since greece has already held the presidency of the eurogroup for six months. but we don't see anything, no record of it! how has the euro in the past been a growth driver or a growth hindrance? in the future, how does the greek presidency intend to make the stability pact more intelligent? all these points would have merited some guidance.
- report (a5-0431/2002) by mr andria, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament entitled 'clearing and settlement mechanisms in the european union - key issues and future challenges' (com (2002) 257 - c5-0325/2002 - 2002/2169 (cos)).
- mr president, first of all i would like to thank our colleague mr andria on behalf of my group for his work. the subject is complex and mr andria has used every means at his disposal to reach a compromise. our group is very satisfied with the method of work and the results obtained. the report as voted on in the committee on economic and monetary affairs is very balanced. we would like to make two minor amendments to clarify the text and not to change its substance. i shall not repeat here the importance of our work on the establishment of a european-wide integrated financial market. our parliament has already examined some aspects of this market and laid down some of the many common rules which will be necessary for its proper functioning. a single and transparent framework for clearing and settlement is one of these essential rules. that is why, in parallel with our work on the investment services directive, our parliament is asking the commission to draw up a draft directive on clearing and settlement. in the absence of any regulation, market players have organised themselves, creating a system that, while it works, is far from optimal. moreover, this system naturally tends to create a private monopoly and to distort competition by confusing infrastructure functions with banking functions. we cannot seriously accept it. of course, we could, as some of my colleagues suggest, let the market organize itself. we can also take up our responsibilities as co-legislators and ask the commission to establish rules to ensure transparency and free competition. as you all know, markets can only achieve a healthy balance if they are organised in a transparent and secure way. that is not the case today, and that is what my group is asking for. we support the rapporteur on three main points. first, the removal of all obstacles to the creation of a single market for clearing and settlement. the obstacles, whether technical, fiscal or legal, impede the outcome of individual crossborder transactions and must be removed. secondly, free exercise and transparency of competition. we are asking for open and fair access to settlement-delivery infrastructures. we believe that these settlement-delivery infrastructures should be considered as a service of general interest. this should not prejudice their private or public status, but allow them to be managed as non-profit-making entities and be accessible without discrimination to all users. finally, the current state of confusion between infrastructure and commercial functions must be brought to an end. we cannot accept that certain players, motivated solely by the prospect of profit, expose infrastructure functions to banking risk. this is particularly relevant at a time when the us is strengthening its market protection measures. that is why our group will support mr andria's request for a clear separation of roles. we will thus protect our markets and put an end to the dumping which is so often masked by confusion. the european commission has asked us to comment on this matter. it is not by presenting an empty recommendation that we will be able to play our full role as co-legislators. for this reason, our group will reject all the delayed amendments and will support the rapporteur in his clear and constructive positions. we tabled two amendments; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we only think that the wording of the current paragraph 11 no longer corresponds to the state of market forces and would cause too great a disruption if the settlement services were to be owned by their users. we also took the liberty of adding to the compromise agreed by all the groups on paragraph 12 our commitment to transparency and the exercise of free competition. i think that should not be a problem for my colleagues.
- mr president, i congratulate my colleague mr andria on his excellent work, firstly, and on his political courage on a difficult issue, secondly. in the financial market action plan, this subject of clearing and settlement was not given the attention it deserved from the outset and this omission must now be corrected. the post-market infrastructure is essential for the successful completion of the transactions. you said something about trust, security. there are also systemic risks associated with this type of activity, which are therefore clearly in the public interest. on the other hand, these are activities with increasing returns. and it is for these two reasons that, in all historical logic, regulation in the public interest is indispensable. we know that these regulations exist at national level, whereas at european level the fragmentation of infrastructure and rules was predominant until recently. it is therefore time to draw up legislation in line with our objective of building the internal market. we find that, in the absence of appropriate legislation, the current trend is biased and dangerous, because we are seeing the creation of entities that combine clearing settlement activities and competitive banking activities, without a framework of general interest and at the risk, obviously, of distorting competition. the rapporteur is therefore absolutely right, both for reasons of substance and experience, to choose a public service or, i would say, public utility approach, the terms do not matter - in the united states, we speak of public utility, it is the same thing. hence the proposals to separate non-profit activities from cost-based pricing practices. and in conclusion, i would say that now is the time to legislate. i don't see why we have to consult again. we have clear positions from the rapporteur which our parliament should adopt without any sweeteners in order to have a positive line. we therefore believe that the commission should now, for the sake of the credibility of all our work, prepare the draft directive.
- thank you very much, mr. karas. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0452/2002) by mr mantovani, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the communication from the commission to the council, the european parliament, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions on the future of health care and care for the elderly: ensuring accessibility, quality and financial sustainability (com (2001) 723 - c5-0163/2002 - 2002/2071 (cos)).
- the future of care for the elderly must not be a sectoral concern or even a purely humanistic one, let alone a purely financial or profitable one. yes or no, are these generations an asset to our modern societies? yes or no, do our societies have the means to ensure a decent future, sufficient means to provide for health care, and therefore also high-quality pensions, worthy of our times? my answer is yes, three times yes. today, in france, 40 percent of people who retire receive less than 1,000 euros a month. statistics predict that by 2005, 30 percent of the population will be living below the poverty line. so, yes, of course, the funding of social protection needs to be reviewed. the whole problem is to determine by what principle it should be. the question of the future of pensions and health care is therefore a question of making social choices. how do we address the causes of the deficit, how do we expand the number of those who participate in the national solidarity effort? fighting unemployment with employment policies or pursuing layoffs and closures? i am also opposed, as others have already done, to article 10 (c) of the report, which calls for the creation of an internal market in health services and products. this would open the way to the logic of pension funds which are more eager to share market shares than to care about any health policy. it is inconceivable to me that care should be provided for the purse. is there not already a danger when, for example, in britain, dialysis is no longer funded from the age of 75? on the contrary, i am convinced that social acquis such as the french pension must be strengthened. in france, seven trade unions of employees have recently demanded it. their common platform demands, and i quote, a high level of retirement. they also call for nationwide protests on february 1. wealth exists, finally, to satisfy a high standard of retirement. as one of my group's amendments recommends, we must look at new ways of financing statutory pension schemes, in particular by extending social security contributions to all financial incomes, applying the same rates as for wages. finally, i would like to express my total opposition to the increase in the duration of working time in france and europe, as advocated by the barcelona european council.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the work of the european commission, the work of the rapporteur, whom i thank, and the work of our european parliament, whose representatives spoke this evening, is based on two central facts. a very positive fact: the human life span is steadily increasing with a real decline in the outward signs of aging. another factor which is of great concern to economists and especially to budgetary officials of all stripes is that this increase in life expectancy is accompanied by an increase in the cost of health and care, which is also increasing and will increase considerably in the coming years. consequently, if one does not believe that the single market and free competition will solve all the problems in this respect too, one must expect that, in order to guarantee a high level of quality of care for all, significant financial efforts will have to be made in terms of contributions and taxes, which will of course have to be distributed fairly. some people deny it, they're wrong. some people regret it; i feel sorry for them because one day they'll be old too. others, including myself, think and say that it is a matter for the individual. this is the only way to prevent the extension of life from being merely a step back from death and to ensure that this extension represents the maintenance of real life, without forgetting that experience is also a factor of progress. this means high-quality care and services adapted to all situations. this requires public research into new medicines and treatments, changes in mindsets and different priorities for our society and, most importantly, public budgets that meet the needs. at the beginning of the new millennium, mr president, everyone knows this, and some of us even regret it: we are far from having met all these conditions and criteria.
- mr president, we will not vote in favour of this report because the rapporteur insists on the need for financial sustainability, which means, of course, that the level of expenditure must be limited in advance. but beyond that, how can we talk about the future of health and care for the elderly without talking about the pension issue? under the pretext of modernisation, many governments in the union are continuing and intensifying their attacks on pensions and on the pensioners of today and tomorrow. in france, over the last 15 years alone, from reform to reform, the level of pensions has fallen by some 30%. but how could the pensioners of the working classes, those who, even as wage earners, received insufficient wages, bear this permanent decline in their purchasing power without affecting their health and the quality of care? the report emphasizes prevention. but the first prevention is to ensure that pensioners have adequate living conditions. we must not only stop the fall in pensions, but also ensure that all those who have worked their whole lives do not lose their purchasing power as a result of retirement. let no one tell us that this is impossible and that the ratio of active to inactive does not allow it. the problem is not this ratio of active to inactive but the ratio between the huge profits of large companies, the ever-increasing incomes of the wealthy class, and the ever-decreasing incomes of employees, active or retired. to ensure a dignified retirement is to accept to draw on the profits or income of the rich classes.
- thank you very much, mr. karas. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (the sitting was closed at 11.07 p.m.) the next item is the report (doc.
council mr president, commissioner, members of the european parliament, on the one-year anniversary of the signing of the bonn agreement in 2001, in taking stock of the progress made towards its full implementation, i would like to point out that this agreement laid the foundations for the creation of a modern and modern afghan state, for which one could express a moderate satisfaction with the progress achieved so far. in particular, we note that after the establishment of a provisional authority and administration, the extraordinary loya jirga was convened and the president subsequently elected by it. a judicial committee and an independent human rights committee were set up. a central bank was established and the country's currency was issued. a drafting committee was set up as a precursor to the constitutional committee. a proposal for a national development framework was adopted to serve as a guide for reconstruction and the promotion of a better situation in the country. president karzai issued a decree establishing an afghan national army, which is an important step towards afghans taking responsibility for the security and stability of their country. on 22 december 2002, afghanistan and six neighbouring countries signed the kabul declaration on good neighbourly relations and non-interference in the internal affairs of other states, an important development for peace and stability in the region. in general, we could say that president karzai and the afghan transitional government have achieved enough to put the bonn process on a proper track. i would like to point out that at the meeting held in st petersburg on 2 december to confirm the will to implement the bonn agreement on afghanistan and to give a new impetus to the reconstruction effort in that country, a declaration was adopted which clearly states the objectives and timetable for implementing the bonn agreements, introducing the new constitution and the 2004 elections. however, there are still many transitional challenges that the afghan transitional government and the international community must address. in the last six months, there have been few reforms, little visible reconstruction, limited restoration of the balance of power both within the central administration and between the centre and the periphery. progress in these areas is necessary to boost the confidence of the afghan people, which is ultimately the key to supporting the government. the basic philosophy of bonn was, moreover, precisely based on supporting the entire transitional scheme on the traditional, local, national and religious structures of the country. and representativeness must be safeguarded at all costs, but it must be governed by rules which are entered into centrally by the government. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator, but must be a witness to the fact that the european union is a political force, a political force which is not only a political force but also a political force, a political force which is not only a political force but also a political force. the government is inherently fragmented, with members drawn from all regions of the country, and so it is of particular importance to try to support and accelerate the pace of reconstruction in the country. a useful means of supporting the central government is to channel aid exclusively through the government, in order to assert its authority throughout the country and to ensure the commitment of neighbouring countries and local leaders. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the united nations charter and the united nations charter. we share the views of the afghan people that although insecurity still exists, the desired progress has not been made to the extent that we would like. the economic reconstruction of the country should also be a priority. the afghan authorities should, in cooperation with the international monetary fund, establish an effective and coherent macroeconomic and monetary framework within which to establish stable economic growth and to enable donor offerings to be invested. in this context, tokyo's international donors should be encouraged to actually commit the pledged resources through the national investment budget presented by the afghan administration. the community's assistance to afghanistan will certainly continue to be based on conditions dictated by the basic principles and values which we share as members of the western community. our conditions are aimed at the success of the bonn agreement and, consequently, at the compliance of all parties in afghanistan with a process that has been put in place and aims at peace, representative government, stability, the condemnation of terrorism and the curbing of the illicit production and trafficking of drugs. community assistance should be directed towards national stability and reconstruction, improving food supplies and supporting the return of refugees and displaced persons. the strengthening of democratic values, pluralism and respect for human rights, including women's rights, is a necessary condition for social and political development in this country. we encourage the afghan transitional government to work closely with the international community to establish verifiable benchmarks and timetables so that the full implementation of the bonn agreement can be ensured. the council has already expressed its satisfaction at the role turkey has assumed in the management of the international security promotion force. we congratulate germany and the netherlands on agreeing to take over the leadership of isaf for the next six months and wish them every success in the difficult task they are undertaking. i would like to reiterate the european union's commitment to help afghanistan, in cooperation with the united nations, to eliminate the production and trafficking of illicit drugs by accelerating the implementation of reconstruction programmes, including in the areas where the drugs are cultivated, by developing law enforcement institutions and by providing alternatives to the local population to gain a better prospect. for afghanistan to develop into a modern state requires success in a series of reforms in the areas of security, administration, justice, economy, social welfare. we support the establishment of committees for the drafting of a constitution, for the modernisation of the judicial system and for the protection of human rights. however, we note that the committee on public administration is not yet fully operational. the european union is committed to contributing to the work of these bodies. the committee on the judiciary must also be strengthened to enable it to make progress in the procedural system. we welcome italy's contribution to this by hosting the conference on justice in afghanistan in rome last december. in this context, timetables and milestones are necessary to ensure the implementation of the provisions of the bonn agreement. in particular, the activation of the committee responsible for drafting a new constitution and the adoption of an electoral law to hold elections by june 2004 are immediate priorities. the presidency will continue to follow these issues through the european union special representative for afghanistan. the year 2003 is crucial for this country and will probably determine its future shape. during this year, president karzai should undertake the reforms needed to bring reconstruction and reconstruction to a rapid pace, to substantially reduce the power of local leaders, to draft a modern and functional constitution based on the principles of good governance, to convene a constituent assembly and to advance preparations for the 2004 elections so that the afghan people can see their aspirations fulfilled for peaceful conditions in afghanistan, for progress, and where afghans themselves can determine their future without violence and fear. we reiterate the european union's continued commitment to make a substantial contribution to the reconstruction of afghanistan. finally, we recall that the council, in its conclusions of 4 december 2002, has already invited the high representative and special representative of the european union, mr vendrell, to monitor closely the implementation of the petersburg commitments and, in cooperation with the commission, to make recommendations on further actions that the european union can take in support of the afghan transitional government.
commission. – mr president, i very much welcome this opportunity, with my colleague mr ionitsis, to discuss progress in afghanistan over the past year. as i said to the foreign affairs committee in december, the changes have been in many respects dramatic, and do offer a real chance to build a stable democracy. but timing is critical; there is – as the minister properly underlined – a limited window of opportunity which we have to exploit. unless president karzai and his government manage to strengthen their position throughout the country, then there is a risk that these early gains will be lost. but before turning to the substantial challenges that lie ahead, i would like to say something about the successes of 2002, successes accomplished in extremely difficult circumstances. only a year ago donors met in tokyo to pledge over usd 1.8 billion for 2002. much has since been achieved in afghanistan. in the summer, president karzai was elected by an emergency loya jirga to lead the afghanistan transitional authority; constitutional and judicial commissions have been established; a new currency has been introduced, and the process of recovery and of reconstruction is well under way with increasingly strong leadership from the afghan government. the international community has not only honoured the pledges made at tokyo, but, not least in comparison with some problems we have experienced in the past, the speed of disbursement has been remarkable. the track record of the european union and the european commission has been, i think one can fairly say, particularly impressive. by early december, eur 755 million of the total european union commitment of over eur 830 million had actually been disbursed. the commission has played a leading role in co-ordinating the european union effort and we have been actively involved in building up a strategic dialogue on afghanistan with the united states and other g-8 partners. i must say that i am very proud of the quality of the ec assistance programme and the speed with which it has been delivered. it is a fine example of a successful linkage between relief and recovery, and it has been a good test case for the reform of the management of the external service. it is also fair to pay tribute to the excellent staff we have at the newly set-up ec office in kabul. i would also like to pay tribute to the special representative, who brings so much knowledge and so much expertise to his extremely challenging work. in more concrete terms, our development programme of over eur 205 million in 2002 has helped to finance: firstly, the operation of 238 health clinics and over 450 primary schools as part of the government’s 2002 back to school campaign; secondly, the clearance of landmines and unexploded bombs from more than 8 000 square kilometres of land; thirdly, the return of some 17 000 key public sector workers, including the return to service of over 2 000 teachers and 2 000 nurses and doctors and fourthly, the creation of jobs. through our rural recovery and urban rehabilitation programmes, we are financing over 3 million person days of work this year alone, and i should also refer to the rebuilding of infrastructure. the commission, along with the swedish government and pakistan, has already started the emergency rehabilitation and reconstruction of the kabul-jalalabad-torkham road and full reconstruction will start next year. in addition, our humanitarian aid has helped to support the return of over 1.8 million refugees to afghanistan. over eur 70 million has been spent by echo in 2002. that means that the money which we have spent in total in afghanistan over the last twelve months, the money which is voted by this parliament, now stands at eur 275 million. i do not think anybody can suggest that we have not played – or are not still playing – our full part so far in the reconstruction of afghanistan. for 2003, the challenge will be to consolidate this early progress. the commission will continue to play a leading role. we anticipate total development assistance of about eur 185 million, and there will also be continued humanitarian assistance from echo of between eur 45 and 55 million. that means that we will be spending in afghanistan this year, on present estimates, between eur 230 and 240 million. colleagues will recall that at tokyo on behalf of the commission i pledged eur 1 billion over five years in reconstruction assistance. that is not including the humanitarian assistance figures that i have mentioned, so the total contribution of the european commission, from your taxpayers' money, to afghanistan, quite apart from contributions from member states, will be well in excess of eur 1 billion for the reconstruction of afghanistan. some people in the past have derided that sort of work as nation-building or social work. frankly, when i look back, i think if we had done more of it in the 1980s and 90s, we would not have the problems that we have had recently in afghanistan. (applause) success in 2003 will hinge on three key issues. first, the need to improve internal security. second, the need to ensure human rights are fully respected, including those of women and minorities. when i visited kabul last year, one of the most moving visits that i paid was to a school in the extraordinary bomb site that is southern and western kabul, where young women had returned to schooling for the first time in six years and were sitting in classrooms without blackboards, without textbooks, being taught physics. i must say the commitment and dedication of the staff, and of those young women, was remarkable: anybody who ever thought that it would have been right for us to stand by and allow taliban rule to continue indefinitely should perhaps have been present on that occasion. the third key issue for us is the need for continued long-term commitment from donors and for effective coordination. the argument about coordination is one which has been extremely well made by members of this parliament, and i will say another word about it a little later if i may. internal security is critical not only for the future of afghanistan but also to the delivery of aid. aid workers must be able to work without fear of recrimination. in this context, i would like to express my strong concern about the death of one aid worker, and the serious injury of two others, in kabul just before christmas. i think sometimes we underestimate the amounts of courage and commitment which are required for aid workers working in these sort of circumstances. president karzai’s commitment at the 2 december bonn ii conference to form an afghan national army is a welcome step forward, as is the recent signing of the kabul declaration on good-neighbourly relations. the government must press on quickly with the creation of a national army, but clearly this will not be achieved overnight. in the meantime, the international community must do everything possible to support president karzai and to strengthen the government’s position across all regions of the country, including in the fight against opium poppy production. the minister has already referred to our concern about this. if you look at the present un figures, there is very considerable reason not just for concern, but alarm. there has been a substantial increase in the amount of hectares under opium production, a rapid increase in the farm-gate price of poppies, a ballooning in the production of heroin with implications not only for surrounding countries, but for european countries, and for the funding of organised crime and terrorism in the region and beyond. i believe that we have to give far more attention to this problem in the next year or so, a problem which directly affects political authority in afghanistan itself. overall, as agreed at the bonn ii meeting, we need tangible benchmarks to measure progress. these are critical not only to shape our vision of afghanistan’s future, but to provide support to the reformers within the government. this is of critical importance for human rights. recent reports highlight the unacceptable situation faced by minority groups, and women, in some parts of the country. we must secure fundamental change by ensuring that the establishment of the independent human rights commission translates into tangible change on the ground, and that the new constitution enshrines human rights for all, including women. clearly, these issues are vital in view of the general elections which are scheduled for mid 2004. we also cannot hope to deliver sustainable change without good donor coordination. we must all continue to give a strong and consistent message to the afghan government about the need to tackle internal security, to respect human rights for everyone and to set benchmarks for progress. i would like to finish by stressing that we must be prepared for the long haul – regardless of other events that may unfold in 2003. rebuilding a cohesive state will take time, as will improving the unacceptably low levels of education and healthcare. i want to assure parliament of my personal commitment to these tasks. i paid a first trip to kabul in may 2002 and will be returning this february as part of a trip to the central asian republics. i intend to make one of the priorities of my visit the discussion of the better coordination of donor efforts, including the work done by ngos. the support received from this house has been very reassuring, especially in helping to secure funding for afghanistan for 2003. i look forward to an equally rewarding working relationship with parliament over the coming year and i want to express my great gratitude for the informed and thoughtful contribution which parliament has made to the discussion of these issues. it is sometimes difficult for the international community to focus on more than one or two blips on its radar screen at any one moment. there is a real danger of us assuming that, because we do not read as much about afghanistan on the front pages of the newspapers, our job in afghanistan is, as we would say colloquially in english, done and dusted. it is far from that. there is a huge job for us to do in afghanistan. there are worrying tasks for the international community in the central asian republics and there are reasons for concern about the situation in pakistan. so i hope that we can continue to focus on this work in the years ahead, whatever the tragic distractions may be elsewhere.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i think i can tell you at once, after hearing your statements, that you will have the full support not only of my political group, the european people's party, but - and i know this from having participated in the negotiation of the joint resolution to be voted on tomorrow - of all the groups in this parliament. for me, afghanistan a year later was already four months ago, on 9 september 2002, when i went to kabul to represent the european parliament at the ceremonies organised for the first anniversary of the assassination of commander massoud. i was privileged to witness the tribute paid by the whole nation to the memory of the man who embodied the spirit of resistance and so well defended the values of freedom to which he was so attached. i also witnessed a marked improvement in the situation in and around the capital, marked by a rapid return to their former homes of hundreds of thousands of displaced persons and refugees who had been forced to flee under the taliban regime. i met them in june 2000 in the camps, where their livelihoods depended on the humanitarian aid that continued to reach them thanks to the courageous efforts - as you pointed out, commissioner - of the few ngos that remained on the ground, despite the difficulties faced by the regime in power. i had finally seen the efforts of the provisional government to restore the harmony throughout the country which is essential for the establishment of a lasting peace. but i was also able to see the continuing threat posed by fundamentalist terrorists, who had just sacrificed dozens of innocent lives by blowing up a bomb in a market in the heart of kabul's most popular district. and then i was struck by the sense of disorder created by the many international organizations that were deployed on the ground to distribute the aid needed to rebuild the country, but without any real consultation with each other or with the authorities or the afghan people themselves. in short, mr president-in-office of the council, as you said, i had this feeling of reserved satisfaction, of mixed feelings: the comfort of seeing the efforts made in the implementation of the bonn agreements under the auspices of the international organizations, which had allowed for significant progress; the satisfaction of seeing the bonn agreements being implemented in the context of the european union, which had allowed for the implementation of the bonn agreements; the satisfaction of seeing the bonn agreements being implemented in the context of the european union, which had allowed for the implementation of the bonn agreements; the satisfaction of seeing the bonn agreements being implemented in the context of the european union, which had allowed for the implementation of the bonn agreements; the satisfaction of seeing the bonn agreements being implemented in the context of the european union, which had allowed for the implementation of the bonn agreements; the satisfaction of seeing the bonn agreements being implemented in the context of the european union. the awareness that the game was still far from being won; the european union is convinced that the afghan people are not alone in their struggle for freedom and democracy, and that the afghan people are not alone in their struggle for democracy. where are we today ? the government of president karzai continues to work, through the services of the transitional administration, to promote stability, democracy and prosperity in afghanistan. but first, it has not yet achieved all its objectives, especially in extending its authority over portions of the territory that remain under the authority of a small number of warlords who refuse all allegiance to the central authorities. as a result, the human rights situation and the situation of women in afghanistan have not improved in line with the government's ambitions and it is up to our parliament to denounce this situation and to ask for all the necessary help to be given to this end, in particular perhaps by extending the mandate of isaf. secondly, the fight against the fundamentalist fanaticism of the followers of al-qaeda and mullah omar is still not won. there is strong presumption that they will continue to receive support from the so-called uncontrolled areas of the neighbouring territories. we therefore welcome the commitment made last month in kabul by the governments of the neighbouring countries and call on them to cooperate fully in the complete destruction of the remaining networks of terrorist organisations. finally, and perhaps most importantly - as you said, mr president-in-office of the council, and i was glad to hear it - we deeply regret the current lack of consultation between the various actors in reconstruction. we call for the creation of a genuine agency to provide the necessary coordination. you said that to establish the authority of the government, all aid from the international community must go through this government, and in particular it must stop being given to some of the local lords. i would add to commissioner patten's intention, and this will be my conclusion, that we want the commission to focus on strengthening the authority and capacity of the afghan government in its own projects, increasingly drawing on domestic skills and manpower, which may be too neglected resources at the moment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have the advantage, for once, of not speaking about abstract matters but of basing my speech on a journey that we have made together. with my socialist colleagues in the european parliament, we made a trip to afghanistan in november. i would like to say, commissioner, that the welcome given to the european commission representatives on the spot, the work they are doing there, can only reinforce the pride you feel for all those members of the european commission we met, who helped us visit the region and meet the political leaders there. that is the first thing i wanted to say, because the work of the european commission in the region is extraordinary. i remember bonn, a little over a year ago. i also recall the priority given by the committee on women's rights to the need to make people understand the importance of women's participation in the process of organizing power. i also remember that in the european parliament we made a report on the role of women in armed conflict, on two levels: as victims and as actors. i would like to talk about both. there is a way of talking about both today, in the face of what the afghan people expect from europe. it is also something i would like to stress: we have a responsibility to the afghan people who expect a lot from us. the problem of women is very complex, but at the same time it is clear that we must be precise! we'll have an afghan constitution in a few weeks. a committee was set up in november for this purpose and includes two women among its nine members. but what exactly do we mean when we talk about the place of afghan women in the constitution? we're being told about a return to the 1964 constitution. i was curious to see the 1964 constitution: human rights in general, women's rights in particular, are mentioned in an extremely vague way. they say so themselves. all of this is very vague. we know that no legal text, no constitution since the second world war has omitted specific mention of women's rights. it is therefore important to me, as you have said, commissioner, that the afghan constitution should include a reference to women. in my opinion, based on the discussions we had there, it is not a win. but it's part of our job. that is why i insist on this point as much as i have done there in my various meetings. women's rights is a tell-all. it's not just a conflict-related indicator, it's also a reflection of the state of a society as a whole. remember what fourrier said, that social change is measured by women's freedom.
- mr president, we must not forget about afghanistan. it is the duty of the international community to help restore full sovereignty to one of its members which has been most severely affected in the last 30 years by every conceivable disaster: foreign invasions, civil wars, communist and islamist coups, droughts, the implosion of the state and the establishment of an international terrorist organization. the elimination of the taliban has brought about a country in which all the structures of the national state must be rebuilt, starting with those that ensure external and internal security, namely a national army and a national police, which are indispensable instruments for the authority of the legitimate government to be exercised throughout the territory. during the period of training the basic army and police units, in a country where the private militias are thirty times more powerful than the afghan army, it would have been wise to expand the mandate of the international security assistance force geographically, especially in the main opium-producing regions that feed the warlords. europe, together with france, great britain and italy, which are actively involved in training the afghan army, is taking an important part in this reconstruction work, the second priority of which is to rebuild a tax and customs administration, in order to dismantle the system of sharing state revenues between armed groups which had been set up in favour of foreign invasion and civil war. in this area, which is also a priority, our states must be active. they have all the necessary expertise, mr president.
- mr president, among all the concerns that should mobilize us in the face of the spectacle of international society, we no longer know where to turn. let us not forget afghanistan, which is now becoming a kind of caricature, a caricature of american imperium. the european union has a duty to help the people of afghanistan, and i am sure that the european union will do so. it has suffered the british empire, it has suffered the soviet empire, it is now suffering the american empire. but today there is a great difference in the nature of things, because the american empire, as well-conscientious as it is, allows itself to do anything, to the point of calling a wedding a "regrouping" and destroying an entire village, as we saw a few months ago. since 9/11, the country has indeed become a caricature of a good conscience. we have not even had the courage - because europe has definitely given up on playing any role other than that of humanitarian support - to denounce this fraud, which consists in going to destroy half a country because a criminal is taking refuge there. if one day a burnt-head came from america and took refuge in america after destroying a tower of the defense in paris, i would not have the idea to go and recommend to my government to destroy part of the united states of america and then appoint a governor there. i say governor because, obviously, mr karzai is not just an american governor. i hope that europe will one day take care to play a role, that europe will stop following the united states in its footsteps, that europe will at least stop preventing the states from playing their own role.
- madam president, the conciliation has produced a result which, in the end, satisfies no one. animal rights campaigners say the text does not go far enough, industry does not think it can meet deadlines and consumers do not understand what has been decided, particularly on animal testing, which is at the heart of the directive. by prohibiting, without any possibility of derogation, the testing and placing on the market of products tested on animals six years after its entry into force, the directive is putting the cosmetics industry on the back foot and undermining its capacity for innovation. however, we all wanted, from the very beginning of the negotiations, to bring healthy and anallergic cosmetic products to the market, to save animals from unnecessary suffering and to preserve the employment, competitiveness and know-how of our export-oriented companies. however, the deadline agreed will lead, in our view, to the safety of products on the market no longer being guaranteed - these products will not have been subjected to comprehensive tests offering the same guarantees as tests on animals - to the penalisation of european products on the markets of third countries which continue to carry out animal testing, the only fully reliable methods today, and to the risk of a wto sanction, which may perceive this ban as an obstacle to the marketing of cosmetic products manufactured outside the european union. it is generally accepted that few alternative methods will appear within the next ten years and that the complete replacement of animal testing could be envisaged within the next fifteen years. i think it would have been more realistic to agree to a ban in ten years' time, with a derogation for three types of tests, those on reproductive toxicity, on toxicokinetics and on toxicity in case of repeated application. despite this, there are some positive points, such as the indication on the packaging of the durability of the use of the products and the possible presence of allergenic ingredients, which are concrete measures that improve consumer protection. finally, i note that some directives are now in their seventh revision, while others, such as the birds directive, which dates from 1979, and the habitats directive, which has just celebrated its tenth anniversary, have not yet been revised.
- madam president, i would like to join in the congratulations that have been addressed to our colleague, mr dagmar roth-behrendt, for all the energy and determination she has shown in getting her report adopted. we remember the lively debates we had in this house, often full of emotion, whenever animal protection and public health were discussed. i would like to remind you that cosmetic products are not just luxury products; they are also, for the most part, products for everyday use and hygiene, which, because of their frequent use, must be subject to a safety assessment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is where we must have the wisdom to make the right balance between the need to find alternatives to animal testing and the need to prioritise public health. but it is not a question of putting the cosmetics industry, which is an important part of our economy, in difficulty either. the industry, having been informed for a long time, was able to plan the necessary investments to develop alternative methods. our rapporteur has made it clear that we have been discussing all this for at least ten years. it is worth noting the many efforts that have already been made and the encouraging results that have been achieved. but we cannot presume with accuracy the advances of science. scientific results are not decreed nor can they be scheduled for a specific date, but they can be encouraged. it is in this spirit that i see the need to impose deadlines and possible extension periods for methods which are still at the stage of initial projects. we have to trust the manufacturers, but sometimes our role is to encourage them to do more, to think about the future differently, to develop an awareness of the expectations of our society. cosmetics have proven to be safe. the information for consumers still needs to be more precise and relevant. the labelling must therefore be perfect and not produce the opposite of the desired effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided is not misleading. it should be simple and enable him, when he has a particular sensitivity to a product, to make the best choice. finally, i would like to say that this third reading is a good example of the quality of parliamentary work that has been done under the responsibility of our rapporteur.
- thank you, madam rapporteur. - thank you. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon. i'm adjourning the court until 12:00. (the sitting was suspended at 11.49 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
mr president, i would simply like to point out an error in the translation of the french version. i checked the other versions. this leads me to say to my friends in the epp that we should vote for this amendment and, of course, correct the french version.
- mr president, i regret the way this vote has been conducted. i regret that our colleagues have not been serious to the end and have not respected the efforts of our colleagues in the house who worked on this resolution. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. - we voted against the european parliament resolution on immigration and asylum policy, in particular because it repeatedly attacks the council, accused of 'impeding progress' in the adoption of the texts. in reality, we must realize that there is a struggle between two conceptions of immigration policy: the states meeting in the council are trying to make a (relatively) restrictive conception prevail, while the commission is constantly putting on the table much more open proposals, inspired, so to speak, by the idea that the rights of immigrants and refugees take precedence over the right to security of the citizens of the countries of europe. the european parliament is clearly showing which side it is on. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. unfortunately, the treaty of nice (which is the wish of the governments of the member states) provides that these questions will soon be decided by qualified majority in the council: this will be a further advantage for the commission in getting its proposals adopted.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by the gue group and against the joint resolution, whose signatories show, once again, that they are concerned only with the free movement of goods but not with freedom and human rights. we are against a europe-fortress surrounded by barbed wire, whether it is against those who are fleeing oppressive regimes and seeking asylum or against those who are simply fleeing poverty. the suggestions of sustainable development that are being put forward so that thousands of women and men do not seek to flee their countries to escape poverty are nonsense. from sustainable development to sustainable development, the gap between the predatory imperialist countries and the poor countries keeps widening. we oppose the anti-establishment view, which is repeated in most resolutions on the 'fight against illegal immigration', to the need to regularize the situation of all so-called illegal immigrants. we also reaffirm our demand that all those living and working in the european union should have the same rights, including electoral rights, and the same freedoms, including freedom of movement, as citizens of the member states of the union.
in writing. - while the european council in tampere in october 1999 set out the elements of a common policy on asylum and immigration, it is clear that we have not made much progress and that we must take the necessary measures, in particular to put an end to illegal immigration and human trafficking. we must improve the way we welcome refugees so that those seeking to immigrate are no longer tempted to resort to clandestine channels. in june 2002, the seville european council committed itself to accelerating the implementation of the programme adopted in tampere; we therefore ask the council to honour its commitments and to stop obstructing the expected progress. we therefore call for the swift and effective implementation of the seville conclusions and we regret that a common immigration policy has not yet been put in place. we must react quickly because we cannot turn a blind eye to the tragedies that are taking place in our member states.
in writing. - this seventh amendment to directive 76/768/eec on cosmetic products is essential because, in addition to the fact that it seeks to approximate the different laws of the member states relating to cosmetic products, its main purpose is to establish a permanent and definitive ban in the european union on the carrying out of animal experiments for finished cosmetic products. this objective could have remained a wishful thinking if parliament had not demanded that both an immediate ban on animal testing for finished products and ingredients, where alternative testing methods have been validated by the european centre for the validation of alternative methods, and a ban on the placing on the market of cosmetic ingredients tested on animals be put in place simultaneously. i believe that only the coexistence of these two prohibitions is a really effective way of stimulating the development of alternative experimental methods. finally, with reference to the precautionary principle, i think it is necessary that carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction substances, classified according to their hazard in categories 1, 2 and 3, should be banned from use in cosmetic products.
in writing. - the annual report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union presented today is an endless text, which very often goes beyond the powers of our assembly, and which tends to blame the member states, as if they were dangerous and repeat offenders in this field, when we are, on the contrary, an area of the world where these rights are well protected. we therefore voted in favour of amendment no 49, which proposed a shorter alternative resolution by mr ribeiro e castro, denouncing the expansionism of the european parliament and focusing our reflection on the real problems of the day, the main ones being terrorism, human trafficking, the sexual exploitation of children, contempt for the family and other all too real evils. as might have been expected, our assembly persisted in its original resolution, adding to its earlier lapses calls for equal rights for homosexual married couples, the total abolition of double punishment and various measures to open up asylum policy and to restrict the possibilities of expulsion. we therefore voted against.
in writing. - in her speech, arlette laguiller denounced the narrow limits of this report and some of its unacceptable positions, particularly when it deals with the fight against illegal immigration. we have voted in favour of this report because the few recommendations which go in the right direction, which defend basic rights, which denounce racism and xenophobia or which oppose the death penalty, are highly offensive to the most reactionary parties in this house. and we don't want our vote to be associated, directly or indirectly, with the votes of those people.
in writing. - member states and the eu have become accustomed to giving lessons in democracy and human rights all over the world. this is usually accompanied by the requirements of free markets and competition. the swiebel report also allows member states to sweep their own backs. the report highlights many human rights abuses in the eu. no country is spared! discrimination on grounds of sex or against minorities such as the roma, police violence, deplorable conditions of detention in prisons and police stations, racist, xenophobic and anti-semitic acts and violence, the challenge of fundamental rights in the name of the fight against terrorism, the replacement of security policies and repression in the field of immigration and asylum, not to mention violations of social rights and frequent violations of trade union rights. the report of the committee on civil liberties, which is based on many examples, does not simply denounce, it calls on governments and makes specific proposals and recommendations in many areas. i welcome the fact that the majority of this house has adopted the report, which has been further enriched by the adoption of my group's amendments. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - fundamental rights are at the heart of our political commitment: we could not therefore vote for this report. last year parliament adopted a method involving the adoption of the charter, the setting up of means, including the network of experts, and the collective work of the three rapporteurs in order to reach a consensus. this method has not been followed and this report reflects more what the rapporteur thinks than a work of in-depth analysis: the whole charter, but only the charter, so an analysis article by article, state by state. it was an opportunity for parliament to gain control over the states. only the charter, that is to say the articles as they are and not as we would like them to be. this report will have no impact on the charter, since only a new convention is able to change its articles. i regret that the report goes beyond the charter in its recommendations, and it is regrettable that the search for consensus has been replaced by the provocative and exaggerated nature of certain proposals. besides, there's no point in bidding any more. this report could have been anticipated by the press and feared by the states. but, having failed to reach a consensus in his camp, he's going to join the graveyard of useless reports.
in writing. - as every year, on the same date, we are faced with the european parliament's traditional report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union. beyond the usual litany, the report before us today is once again a part of the obsession of the pro-immigration, human rights, libertarian, anti-nationalist and colonialist lobbies. it contains a flowery array of aberrations: from the recognition of the right to vote and to stand for election of foreigners, to the application of quotas for foreigners' access to the labour market, to the extension of marriage to homosexuals, to the abolition of the minimum age for marriage in france - which is now 15 for girls and 18 for boys - or to the extension of the interpretation of the notion of national minority to all ethnic minorities. but this report would be sadly trivial if, by chance, all these considerations were not accompanied by a demand to lift the ban on women entering mount athos, the greek orthodox monastic sanctuary, which has been in place since 1045. the rapporteur considers that such a ban is contrary to the principle of non-discrimination and gender equality! when will we have mandatory mixed marriages in our monasteries and convents ?
in writing. - i do not recall ever having read, in my entire career as a member of parliament, a text as aberrant as the one presented to us today by mrs swiebel. of course, there are the traditional federalist whims about the binding nature of the charter of fundamental rights and its possible transformation into a preamble to an illusory european constitution. but, in addition to this aspect of the matter, which is already unacceptable in principle, it is the use of this charter against the member states which is causing outrage. the rapporteur's avowed aim is to misuse the charter of fundamental rights to try the member states and, in the end, to impose on all national legal systems practices, customs and sometimes even deviations which are radically alien to our common judeo-christian heritage. the legitimate struggle for respect for human rights cannot be confused with unhealthy fantasies, and this in disregard of the common good. by tabled ing an alternative resolution, my group had only one objective: to save the honour of a parliament which has already discredited itself sufficiently by adopting in committee this aberrant swiebel report, a veritable summary of what is most disgusting about the right-wing ideology.
in writing. - while the commission, in its communication of 7 may 2002, sought to lead the member states in the unrealistic direction of supranational (so-called 'integrated') management of the external borders, the governments have brought it back to reality by adopting a plan for the management of the external borders based on practical and useful measures: exchange of good experience, operational coordination, joint continuing training, compatibility of equipment, joint risk analysis... the pirker report of the european parliament is rather following this path, and so are we, as we said at the european council in seville (june 2002). however, the report seems to regret - hence our abstention in the vote - that the council has rejected the idea of an integrated european border guard corps. such supranationalisation of the guarding of the external borders would in fact be highly counterproductive, since it would relieve the member states of responsibility. it is essential that each of us remain in control of our boundaries. on the other hand, it would be useful for those states which, because of their geographical position, incur substantial expenditure in this respect, which benefits their neighbours in the union, to receive substantial technical and financial support from the union. european solidarity should find useful expression here.
in writing. - the rapporteur, in agreement with the commission and the council, would like the european union to introduce integrated management of the external borders of the member states, which is not likely to happen given the rivalries between the member states within the european union itself. but what for? against who and against what ? you do not specify this because it would be to acknowledge that this unified management of borders is not intended to protect the peoples of europe, but is aimed, without saying it openly, at turning the european union into a fortress where it would be even more difficult for migrants, the poor and refugees to enter. we have of course voted against this report.
in writing. - this is a communication from the european commission on the integrated management of the eu's external borders to ensure an area of freedom, security and justice. the establishment of coordination between member states in the field of external border control can of course only be approved. to ensure security within the eu, especially after enlargement, it is necessary to: - ensure mutual trust between member states in border control; - combat all forms of internal and external threats arising from terrorism; and- to fight against illegal immigration. however, i cannot support the repressive and security philosophy behind some of these proposals, even if, and especially if, it is currently gaining ground at european level, and particularly in france. we are too inclined to deal with the symptoms rather than with the real causes of the ills of poverty and unemployment, not to mention the lack of real immigration policies. no one will deny that the right to security is a fundamental right. but it should also be clear that this does not mean sacrificing other fundamental rights.
in writing. - europe has abolished internal borders. in addition to the single market, there is the single schengen area. we're free to roam. in exchange for the removal of all the doors in the 15 apartments of the european building, the 380 million tenants were entitled to an efficient concierge at the entrance to the common building. but this concierge service at the external borders is not working. in almeria, brindisi and, as of june 2004, in poland, cyprus and the baltic states, everything is free to move: drugs, pimps, immigration, human trafficking, criminals, terrorists. security is no longer assured. the rapporteur calls for radars, satellites, a common surveillance policy, permanent training with a kind of 'frontalis', such as the integrated control system for taxation 'fiscalis', and of course the inevitable european body. here, a border guard corps, as others want coast guards. there is even the traditional european agency to cure all ills called scifa+, the body responsible for coordinating border protection. in the meantime, the external borders, which are like sieves, let everything through. which is basically the only effective solution. once europe is overrun by the east and the south, there will be no need to guard the border entrances, since everyone will already be inside. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - even from the point of view of the functioning of the financial markets and the capitalist economy, the national breakdown of the european union is a handicap. and all its history over the decades shows that you are only able to overcome it with great difficulty and difficulty. in financial matters, you would like to imitate the system in the united states. but to create it, binding regulatory measures would have to be applied to the member states, which they refuse to do. the most ridiculous thing is to see the rapporteur - a banker from his own state - explain that a genuine public service should be created, without a profit motive, he said, which would make cross-border transactions easier and cheaper! at a time when european institutions and national states are dismantling public services useful to the population, this demand for a public service for the use of financiers and bankers is a tribute to vice over virtue. we are in favour of extending public services to the population; we have to look at the financial mindsets of those who are faced with problems arising from the very nature of their own system. so try to resolve your problems as a family, but since we are not part of it, we abstained on this vote.
in writing. - after inflicting on itself a demographic bloodletting as serious as that of 14-18 and 39-45, but this time in the name of freedoms, fundamental rights and birth control, that is to say their restriction, europe is finding itself aging. with people of the third age and, especially, the fourth age, over 85 years old, with loss of autonomy, with motor and cerebral disabilities, with tgv or very old people. the resolution also notes that mental illness in older people mainly affects women, who are being pushed from the conquest of infertility in the 1980s to dementia in senility in the years 2010-2020. the rapporteur is asking the right questions and is getting bogged down in a tangle of vague solutions. the issues are financial. where can we find the financing, ranging from 4 to 8% of gdp, for the heavy medical care, the constant care that millions of europeans who are deprived of autonomy require? these are professional questions. where are the geriatricians, the life support workers, the specialized care centers, the training needed for these populations? so the answer to these challenges is in the new ageing economy, the nev, to be invented, with new degrees of geriatric assistants, new medical and paramedical branches, a new human urbanism. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - one year after the war against afghanistan, while the taliban regime is no longer there, this country is still under the control of the warlords, with a new regime that no one elected. the situation of women is no better than it was before, children have as little access to education as in the past, not to mention the immense poverty of the majority of the country's inhabitants, which is further aggravated by the death and destruction caused by western aircraft. the united states, with the complicity of european states, spent colossal sums to bomb the country. but there is no question of the great powers spending even a fraction of this money to improve the lives of the people. the various resolutions themselves reflect in a watered-down way the catastrophic situation in afghanistan. but, as always, we're just congratulating each other, asking, inviting. we have not joined in these helpless groans, even though most of those who now make them supported, a year ago, the brutal policies of the great powers.
council mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, the debate on lebanon is indeed a direct reference to the discussions on the middle east, both on the issues of israel and on the discussions we have had over the last 24 hours on iraq. the situation in lebanon remains extremely complex, mainly because of the coexistence of many communities, which makes a multi-ethnic, multi-lingual and multi-religious approach to the problems necessary, without forgetting that lebanon also hosts a large number of palestinian refugees, some 370 000. these communities are represented at institutional level. the implementation of the provisions of the thaad agreement of 22 october 1989, which provide, inter alia, for the stationing of syrian forces in certain areas of lebanon, is in principle part of the relations between lebanon and syria. the council is closely following the internal political dialogue in lebanon. the israeli withdrawal from southern lebanon in may 2000, accompanied by the partial redeployment of the lebanese-syrian army in june 2001, is a first step. at the same time, hezbollah's presence in the south of the country risks being a destabilizing factor for lebanon in its relations with israel. the parliamentary elections of 3 september 2000, which were held in a free manner, represent a step in the right direction towards the normalisation of the situation in lebanon. the destabilising effect of the middle east conflict in lebanon can therefore be underlined. the council has on many occasions reaffirmed that the fight against terrorism is its priority. in this connection, the recent terrorist act in bali has once again underlined the need for close multinational cooperation against terrorism. the implementation of the action plan decided by the european council in september 2001 is progressing well. as regards its external dimension, the council decided to include the fight against terrorism in the framework of the agreement concluded by the european union with third countries. the fact that lebanon is among the first countries to sign the agreement with the european union on this issue demonstrates its willingness to actively cooperate with the eu, including in the area of information exchange. the link between the cooperation agreement on counter-terrorism and the association agreement was underlined by the fact that the two agreements were signed on the same day, on 17 june 2002 in luxembourg, and will enter into force simultaneously - and i hope very soon. the council is closely monitoring the respect for human rights. the council expressed its concern at the action of the lebanese army against christian activists in august 2001 and the closure of the independent television station mtf last september. the association agreement will also strengthen the monitoring capacity of this issue and encourage the lebanese authorities to respect human rights more. i would remind you that the agreement makes respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms a key element in the internal and external policies of both sides. it will also institute a regular political dialogue at various levels, notably in the association council, on all issues of interest. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the association agreement, and i would like to ask the commission to give its assent to it. the signing of the association agreement was a significant development and the beginning of a new chapter in our relations with lebanon. the agreement is mainly about intergovernmental relations, but it also provides a framework for business and civil society to operate. this agreement is important for the whole of the eu's mediterranean policy and is a further step towards the creation of a euro-mediterranean free trade area. i would point out that lebanon has just ratified both the association agreement and the interim agreement, which will enter into force on 1 march 2003. the existence of good channels of communication between the policies of the two sides of the mediterranean is an important factor in a constructive eu relationship with our mediterranean partners. at bilateral level, the association agreement provides for the possibility for the council of the european union - lebanon to facilitate cooperation and contacts between the european parliament and the parliamentary institutions of lebanon. the members concerned must, however, define the framework for this dialogue, which, as far as the council is concerned, should be complementary to the wider euro-mediterranean dialogue. i welcome the results of the last meeting of the euro-mediterranean forum in bari in june 2002, which underlined the parliamentary dimension in our cooperation with the mediterranean countries. we are currently examining the cooperation mechanisms for the creation of a euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly. the european parliament has started work on the creation of such a euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, bringing together members of the 27 national parliaments and the european parliament. the euro-mediterranean conference in valencia proposed strengthening the parliamentary dimension of the euro-mediterranean dialogue by creating a euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly. i welcome the recent meeting of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary forum in bari on 17-18 june 2002, which voted in favour of the creation of a euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly and decided to set up a working group to set up such an assembly. the high-level officials responsible for the barcelona process also agreed to set up a working group to coordinate with the baris group. the greek presidency aims to exploit the potential of euro-mediterranean cooperation and strengthen its parliamentary dimension. this is one of the priorities of our presidency in order to achieve new levels of integration and to strengthen the credibility of euro-mediterranean cooperation. to this end, we are currently examining the cooperation mechanisms and the measures necessary to set up the said assembly. it is desirable, if not necessary, for the euro-mediterranean parliamentary forum to take a decision at its next meeting in crete on 27 march 2003 on its conversion into a parliamentary assembly. in this case, the conference of foreign ministers in crete on 26-27 may 2003 could welcome this decision, so that this new institution becomes a reality.
commission. – mr president, the house is considering today a very important resolution on the adoption of the association agreement signed with lebanon in june last year. this agreement is not only important for our relations with lebanon – it is also crucial in the overall european union-mediterranean partnership since it represents another step towards the completion of the grid of association agreements within the barcelona process (the only agreement still being negotiated is the one with syria and i am hoping to have the opportunity next month of trying to persuade the syrians to go ahead themselves more seriously to negotiate an agreement). lebanon is a key partner in the euro-mediterranean structure. when prime minister hariri was elected to office in september 2000, he set his government an ambitious deadline – to conclude the negotiations with the european commission by the end of 2001. i am very pleased that he has delivered on this promise and i call upon members of the house to vote favourably on the resolution, and to endorse the agreement. parliament has before it, in my judgment, the means to provide lebanon with a firm foundation for building its future. the country has experienced a terrible civil war. it has been the victim of outside interference, it still remains vulnerable. lebanon is now grappling with recovery and with modernisation under difficult economic circumstances, faced with poor immediate prospects for peace in the middle east, smouldering tensions along the border with israel and the unsettling possibility of a military conflict in iraq. there is broad support in lebanon for this new strengthened relationship with europe. the lebanese parliament ratified both the association agreement and the interim agreement in december. the interim agreement allows both sides to start the 12-year transition period from march 2003, leading to the gradual introduction of free trade. this is a clear sign that lebanon is serious in meeting at an early stage its commitments to opening up large areas of its trade and approximating its legislation to that of the european union. it will also be bound by its engagements on respect for the fundamental principles of human rights and democracy from this date and i want to return to that in a moment. the free-trade area will bring about profound changes to lebanese commerce. lebanon is rightly prized for the entrepreneurial skills of its work force. its economic strategy is already liberal. world trade organisation membership has been requested. the opening of markets and economies will bring benefits through economic liberalisation and increased competitiveness. lebanon will benefit immediately from market access for its agricultural and processed agricultural products. and the union will gain from improved access to service sector industries in lebanon, once these arrangements have been concluded. by signalling lebanon’s commitment to economic and social reform, this agreement will send a clear and positive message to the international and european investment community of the opportunities for direct foreign investment in lebanon. the successful outcome of the paris ii donor conference in november last year, organised with great commitment and success by president chirac, suggests that this message has already struck home. of the 18 governments participating, six were member states and the commission was also represented at its highest level. there is a clear interest in seeing that lebanon weathers the economic storm of post-war recovery, and reduces its debt. the amount pledged to assist in debt relief matched expectations (about $ 4.3 billion were pledged in all). but, the association agreement is first and foremost a political agreement, which is why it devotes so much importance to political dialogue. the agreement is a potent expression of shared values and common objectives. it is through dialogue that members of this partnership can pursue the shared commitment to achieving peace in the middle east. our dialogue, and this was a point which mr galeote quecedo referred to, will embrace the fundamental principles of human rights and democracy with an honesty and appreciation born, i hope, out of close partnership. lebanon’s pluralist society, embracing numerous sectarian and religious groups, has functioned most effectively when there is consensus, tolerance and open debate – a unique feature in the region. we are, however, conscious of the concerns expressed by the parliament’s foreign affairs committee on specific points of the human rights situation in lebanon. the agreement provides an additional forum for tackling these concerns. by ratifying the association agreement, the european union will trigger the important commitments from lebanon concerning human rights and democracy, migration and re-admission, money laundering, the fight against organised crime and illicit drugs, and judicial cooperation. and i know too the concerns which have been expressed about freedom of the media. i can reassure you that the commission will continue to monitor and follow these concerns wherever and whenever possible. the agreement will also, as the minister pointed out, trigger lebanon’s undertakings on cooperation in counter-terrorism, set out in the exchange of letters to which he referred. our partnership will extend well beyond trade and politics, and will be wide-ranging, covering areas as diverse as cooperation in the fields of science, education, energy, tourism, the environment and industry. social and cultural cooperation is also central to the agreement, in terms of rights of workers, and social dialogue. our partnership will be sustained by contributions under the meda programme which i hope will be focused, as far as possible, on implementation of the agreement. so we are moving towards our overall ambitions in the southern mediterranean with the agreement that we have put before parliament with the lebanon and i very much hope that we can move on from this to completing the grid of association agreements by successful negotiations with syria. i commend this agreement most warmly to parliament.
mr president, this morning we are discussing here the fate of the afghan people, who have been torn apart by decades of war and fratricidal strife, and i cannot forget that when i take the floor in this new debate. i am not forgetting that the lebanese people have gone through the same trials and i am pleased that at the end of those trials they were able to find the resources necessary to begin rebuilding the model of multiethnic and multicultural cooperation which you spoke of, mr president-in-office of the council, and which the whole world admired before the disease of fear of the other, of fear of being dominated, which was to spread later in the balkans, where i was personally able to see the ravages, was unleashed there. i do not forget the 'balkanization' of lebanese territory, which was as destructive as the later 'lebanonization' of the former yugoslavia. that is why i can only welcome the progress made in concluding this association agreement with the lebanese republic, which you were right to say, commissioner, would be political first. it will be approved tomorrow, i am sure, by a large majority in our parliament, as proposed by our colleague gerardo galeote. i do, however, recognise the difficulties which remain and which have been raised in this debate by you, mr president-in-office, by the commissioner and by our colleagues elmar brok and gerardo galeote. i personally say that the lebanese model - where everyone, regardless of their culture and religion, is enriched by contact with others - has just begun to be built, just begun. i mean, in my view, it will not be completed until the lebanese people have regained, as they wish, their full independence, which they are still deprived of today by the presence on their soil of foreign troops, whose withdrawal the united nations general assembly has repeatedly called for. you told us, mr president-in-office, that a first step had been taken with the withdrawal of some of these troops. in my opinion, that is not enough. i therefore wholeheartedly support the request made by our rapporteur that un security council resolution 520 be taken into account and that the question of the presence of syrian troops on the territory be submitted to the lebanese parliament, which, as we know, is committed to full respect for the sovereignty, territorial integrity, unity and political independence of its country.
- first of all, i would like to express the hope that, at a time when the enlargement of the european union is being put into practice, the euro-lebanese rapprochement will help to outline the contours of a real common construction in the mediterranean. it requires a dialogue between equals. the urgency is all the greater because the risk of war in iraq weighs heavily on relations with the arab world as a whole. secondly, as has been said, all means must be employed to break out of the deadly cycle in the middle east. europe and lebanon could play a more active role in promoting compliance with un resolutions, the creation of a palestinian state and full recognition of israel in the region. i am thinking in particular of the serious basis of the peace offer adopted by the arab countries in beirut. the war in lebanon is fortunately a thing of the past, but the absence of overall peace in the region as a whole is an obstacle to the real reconstruction and development of the country as a whole. this is particularly true in southern lebanon, where the border issues with israel are not resolved. almost three years after the israeli withdrawal, the needs are still immense: rehabilitation of infrastructure, reconstruction of housing, irrigation projects. the same is true of the syrian presence: if it does not explain everything, it probably prevents the lebanese from being able to erase all the scars of the war. lebanon exists in the minds of lebanese people, but many of them are seeking a stronger affirmation of their state, which means, among other things, a democratic and truly independent state of law, in order to achieve and develop coexistence among lebanese people. i am thinking in particular of respect for freedom of expression, the independence of the judiciary, the rights of asylum seekers, the disappeared and the death penalty. this is also true of the situation of palestinian refugees. while lebanon fortunately remains a host country for the palestinians, the absence of any prospect of a just and lasting solution is aggravating the situation of great social distress in which hundreds of thousands of refugees find themselves. the right of return must be recognized as legitimate, but the discrimination faced by palestinian refugees in lebanon is unjustifiable. access to employment or social protection should be better guaranteed, with our help. finally, we cannot ignore the economic and social aspects. while the aftermath of the war required the implementation of an ambitious reconstruction, the current situation is bleak. some summarize it as: "lebanon's economy is between the third world and the city". the debt is now $30 billion. the inequalities are glaring. the high consumption of the richest categories is accompanied by rampant poverty, which is furthered by the very high cost of living and the proliferation of low incomes. it is true that the lebanese prime minister obtained more than four billion euros in aid from some european and arab countries and international financial institutions in paris last november. but i remain more than skeptical of the positive effects of the creation of a free trade area. the loss of customs revenue is likely to have a serious impact on useful public expenditure. european aid should therefore be channelled more into more active support for associations active in the humanitarian and social fields. i still believe that modernity and social progress are about putting human factors at the centre of euro-mediterranean relations rather than goods and capital. the euromed civil forum considers the social and economic balance sheet of the partnership to be generally negative: let us hear the critics !
- mr president, as my colleagues have pointed out: 17 000 families without news of their relatives, media outlets banned from operating, censored by the authorities, journalists arrested, the judiciary being used for political purposes, omnipresent intelligence services, discriminatory measures against thousands of refugees, particularly palestinians, the use of torture despite lebanon's accession to the convention against torture, syria's permanent interference in the life of a third country, discrimination against women; the list of human rights violations as reported, particularly in the hearing held by the committee on foreign affairs, is long. and yet all the associations fighting for democracy in this country support the idea of this association agreement. i would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner and president-in-office, that there is a great deal of hope in this agreement, and that we must face up to the challenges that lie ahead in order to meet these various expectations. the resolution before us, which will be voted on at the same time as the association agreement, is a fairly comprehensive text - and i congratulate the rapporteur on this - and it deals with many of the problems that lebanon is facing today in order to play the role we expect it to play in stabilising the situation in the whole region. the green group has made a good contribution to this and we would like to add a few points, along with other colleagues, which we consider important today. we want, first of all, to call on the lebanese government to ensure that the rights of refugees, migrants and asylum seekers on lebanese soil are respected and to put an end to all discriminatory measures, particularly against palestinian refugees. we also want the commission and the council to formally request information from syria and israel about lebanese nationals who are detained in those states. according to information provided by solidar, whose spokesman was invited to the committee on foreign affairs, israel is holding 12 lebanese and 200 other nationals in secret in syria. the european institutions can, in my view, help to shed light on this issue which is weighing on relations in the region. the green group in the european parliament also draws the attention of the house to the pressures on the lebanese press. it called for strict respect for freedom of the press in all its forms, particularly for journalists and other media outlets that express criticism of government policy. he called for the rights of opponents to be respected in that country, and everyone knows that they are being treated badly. it also called for the lebanese parliament to be associated with and actively participate in the work of the forums of the future euro-mediterranean assembly. this is obviously a condition if we are to believe that this agreement with lebanon will have a greater impact on stabilizing the region and finding a solution to the problems of the middle east. ladies and gentlemen, once again, this association agreement is a challenge. this is a requirement which we have to meet and which, in my view, would be more fruitful if we finally had all the mechanisms to monitor, accompany, propose and regularly and seriously assess, in particular, the implementation of article 2 of this association agreement.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have just returned from lebanon, where i was with jean-marie le pen just before christmas. we were received by the lebanese press and by such personalities as the maronite patriarch monsignor sfeir and the former head of state mr amin gemayel. how can we fail to feel a great deal of sympathy for this kind, refined people who have so bravely overcome the ordeal of nearly twenty years of often atrocious foreign and civil wars? this should make us reflect on the dangers of opening the borders when refugees in this country have started to speak out. the commission has also been asked to consider the risks involved in several aspects of the multicultural society that some people would like to see develop in europe, where it has not existed until now. we are in principle in favour of developing relations with this country of great culture and ancient tradition, so close to europe in general and to the french-speaking tradition in particular, of which i am one of the representatives here. but we can only deal with a sovereign state, a peaceful state, an honest and impartial state. a sovereign state, of course, requires the withdrawal of syrian troops, whose presence is no longer justified, as almost all previous speakers have pointed out, since the end of the israeli occupation of southern lebanon. the un general assembly resolutions, in particular, must be implemented and this withdrawal must be complete, as must the syrian pressure on lebanon's internal politics. a pacified state implies that the repression, also mentioned by other speakers, of students, political dissidents and christians ceases. this implies that certain post-war trials or proceedings which can legitimately be described as stalinist should be abolished; that the general amnesty be extended to all. in saying this, i am thinking in particular of the terrible fate of the former leader of the lebanese forces, samir geagea, the only leader of a faction that took part in these conflicts who has been in prison, in military premises, in a room without light, for eight years now. no one there understands, or rather everyone understands only too well, why samir geagea is in prison, while the leader walid jumblatt, whose excesses are nothing to envy to those of the worst actors in this conflict, is on his part occupied with quasi-official functions. finally, an honest and impartial state means that the commercialism which too often gives rise to the reconstruction of this war-torn country must cease. these are the three conditions for the agreement we call our will to be fully effective.
mr president, i too have direct experience of lebanon and, to continue with the images used by the speaker who has just gone before me, i would say that one can be in love with lebanon but that love does not prevent one from keeping one's eyes open. and i have the feeling that the european union has negotiated with an official lebanon, a lebanon which is somewhat theoretical, if not mythical, that the lebanese reality is unfortunately still very far from the idyllic visions that some would like to use to justify the agreement, and that, fortunately, our debate restores reality in all its crudity. lebanon is a state whose independence is now in trouble. more than a decade after the taif accords, the israelis withdrew, but the syrians remain and remain very much present in a country over which they exercise a protectorate and whose independence they have never truly recognized. the warlords remain, the absence of the rule of law remains, the media remains at the mercy of the authorities, as we saw again very recently at the last francophone congress, drug trafficking remains, corruption remains, the bases of terrorism remain and, as has been recalled, in particular hezbollah. mr president, we are therefore in a paradoxical situation because the reading of the lebanese reality gives a whole series of reasons which would lead to suspending the agreement if the agreement existed and if it were in operation. and that is the paradox of today. do you need an association? for there to be a partnership, mr president, there must be two. does the european union have a fully credible partner today? the doubt still exists, alas!
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, lebanese civil society is following the signing of this association agreement with great interest. while europe is lebanon's main trading partner and one of the major donors supporting its economic modernisation programme, it also offers the guarantee of respect for fundamental rights on the path to the establishment of democratic freedoms. there are still serious violations of freedom of expression, as evidenced by the forced closure of the mtv television channel last september for allowing the opposition to express itself in by-elections. the confirmation of this decision by the court only increases the concern about this situation. the unregulated judicial system does not promote respect for freedom of expression, and courts are increasingly being used as instruments of pressure. as for the lebanese missing persons, there are more than 17 000 people who have been lost since the beginning of the war in lebanon until today. ten years after the end of the conflict, no serious investigation has been carried out to find out what happened to them. some were probably executed in lebanon, but the bodies were never found. it also appears that the abductees were handed over to syria and then transferred to syrian prisons. the families' committee was recently received by the syrian authorities who promised them an investigation but nothing has been done yet. the lebanese authorities remain silent. public calls are growing for the complete withdrawal of syrian troops from the country. their presence, together with the corruption within the lebanese political class, contributes to maintaining a climate of instability and a dire economic situation. in order for the democratic clause not to remain a dead letter, it is imperative to establish mechanisms for regular evaluation and monitoring of its implementation, and this from the very beginning of the entry into force of the agreement, in partnership with ngos close to everyday reality. in a country where fundamental rights and democratic freedoms are often flouted, lebanese citizens place great hopes in these agreements because they represent a means of pressure that citizens cannot do without.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the ebrd, i am pleased that this parliament is examining, in your presence for the first time, a report on the ebrd, whose activity, reputation and credibility have clearly been consolidated under your presidency. i also want to thank our rapporteur for showing how seriously this parliament takes the work of the ebrd. we have co-signed with the rapporteur two amendments which i hope parliament will be able to take up in order to improve the work of its committee on economic and monetary affairs. the activity of the ebrd deserves to be welcomed by this parliament because it is an institution that is both original and exemplary. the principles that drive it are original: support for the transition process, additionality, sound banking principles. i think that there is an example here which we could take as a model in many other areas. there is also the ability to mix economic criteria with political criteria: this is again a major element. you are not a european bank or a branch of the world bank, and yet you have close links with us. there is still the capacity to take risks, to operate in an unstable environment and to provide financing for much-needed projects, even in times of crisis, as you demonstrated in the russian crisis. finally, there is the capacity to promote the activities of smes on a continuous basis, to which parliament attaches particular importance. i would like to stress two points in particular in mr markov's report. firstly, although the ebrd is not an institution of the european union and has very specific relations with the european union, we believe it is important to be able to use this instrument to promote, outside the european union, the principles and strategy that the european union has adopted in both lisbon and gothenburg, in particular to continue promoting employment, social policy, the environment, innovation and the knowledge economy for sustainable development. my second point is subject to amendments which i hope will be accepted by this house. the aim is to increase the importance of the employment criterion and the inclusion of trade unions in the evaluation of cofinancing projects, although i know that this is already the case. the ebrd must not advocate economic liberalism; it must also promote democratic and social values: you are not built on the imf model. i would like to stress the importance of your contribution to the fight against corruption and the promotion of good practice in the context of the ebrd's activities; to insist on the need to refuse participation in financing operations to structures and actors whose enrichment is of dubious origin. this led you to cease your activities, as you mentioned, in belarus. you know that in other countries such practices exist. finally, i would like to stress the future of the ebrd, because although 10 countries in which you are involved will join us from 1 may 2004, the transition period is far from over and we still greatly need the ebrd's interventions to facilitate transition financing in these countries, so that they can be fully involved in the european union.
- i think we can now welcome the vision of the founders of the ebrd, jacques attali (even if his management was later called into question) and françois mitterrand. we also welcome the political agreement of the french and german governments, which was crucial in bringing this project to fruition. now we have a large regional development bank and we congratulate mr lemierre and the bank's teams today. in full agreement with my colleague and friend markov, i'll just ask a few questions for the future. firstly, should the original political objective not be renewed? for the cis countries, it is still a matter of promoting the transition to a market economy. but in the case of the countries concerned by enlargement, the transition is well under way, sometimes even completed, and for them the objective now becomes catching up, development, cohesion, in order to achieve deep integration. secondly, the bank does not behave like a normal commercial bank. it favours smes, helps local banks, takes responsibility for nuclear safety, takes risks; in short, it serves the public interest. should this specificity not be consolidated as the union works towards a financing system geared to the internal market? is there not a risk of contradiction here? the bank is indeed rated triple a, but this is linked to budget support, which we must guarantee. are there not also problems in the equalisation of projects which are profitable and those which are loss-making? finally, how can complementarity be strengthened with public aid and the eib? thirdly, does the ebrd not have a special role to play in promoting corporate and market social responsibility? its principle of additional funding is very good and provides it with leverage to encourage public-private partnerships. fourth, the ebrd can really contribute to the definition of good governance of public institutions in the countries concerned by targeting in particular the involvement of civil society and the needs of the population. can it not begin to evaluate this experience by country and group of countries and submit its thoughts for the future?
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, everyone will understand that at the beginning of this debate i express my regret, my deep sympathy and my solidarity with the fishermen and aquaculture workers of the atlantic coast with whom i deal on a daily basis. the year 2003 begins with very sad omens. i would like to return to the growing importance of the aquaculture sector. over the last ten years, aquaculture has experienced a meteoric rise in the world, as well as in the european community, becoming a fast-growing sector in the field of world food production. aquaculture accounts for almost 30% of the total value of fisheries production in the union, almost €3 billion a year, and 60 000 jobs. there are many advantages, but i would like to focus on three of the most important ones. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a serious accident at work. it is a source of employment in areas where there is little alternative, and i am convinced that it will also help to preserve the natural resource if we preserve wild strains. the report i have been asked to present to this house today focuses on what i believe is the most important aspect of aquaculture: sustainable development. in many cases, certain aquaculture activities are considered to be polluting or to be detrimental to the environment. this is less and less true, as professionals respect the european rules, which are sometimes drastic. on the contrary, this sector is particularly and unfortunately too often directly affected by external pollution: nitrates in fresh water, degassing, hydrocarbons, chemicals, toxic algae in seawater. too often, the actors suffer helplessly from tragedies like the prestige. that is why i have focused my report on sustainable development, which is structured around four concepts: environmental, social, economic and governance. i shall not go into the themes that everyone knows well. i would like to emphasize, however, a fundamental aspect of aquaculture, namely research, which must enable us to produce products of unquestionable quality for consumers, to bring new products to the market, to find innovative forms of exploitation such as offshore sites, but also, and why not, as i have proposed, to conserve and develop wild stocks, particularly for fish, with a view to repopulation which in a number of cases may allow the resource to be maintained. i 'll see you later . i shall not go into my report either, which i am very pleased to have unanimously adopted in the committee on fisheries. i would rather take this opportunity to express once again my sympathy for the fishermen and fish farmers who have been so permanently affected by the sinking of the prestige, which clearly shows their vulnerability. they are not polluters, they are sufferers. this disaster, which began with pollution of the galician coast, also affected the french atlantic coast, including the arcachon basin, a major centre of oyster farming. behind aquaculture sites are men, men who have worked tirelessly to ensure the quality of their products and who risk having all their efforts, even their lives, reduced to nothing. the prestige case has thus plunged all members of a profession, and their families, into moral and economic distress for an indefinite period. it is intolerable that oyster fishermen should once again be the victims of the insecurity of the sea and the oil spills on our coasts. in this connection, i would like to congratulate the commission, which at the time proposed the start of the necessary measures, under the cover of the erika 1 and erika 2 packages, and i would like to express my regret, and i am addressing this directly to the presidency, that these measures have been postponed for some, not taken into account for others, under the pressure of a limited number of member states, which are more likely to rely on economic incentives than to devote themselves to the essential thing: the survival of the planet. what can we do in the short term? it is true that resources already exist in the framework of fifg programming and a whole range of measures can be implemented; the commissioner has answered me on this. finally, i would stress the importance of combating flags of convenience and the need to create a european coastguard; although its creation would be difficult in the short term, the benefits of such a body would include improving the efficiency of controls and thus enhancing maritime safety. i do not forget that, beyond the prestige, the sea bandits pollute our seas every day with a crime that is too little sanctioned, the dumping of gas. i strongly urge the greek presidency to put maritime safety and disaster response as a priority on its agenda. this report will be adopted under very sad circumstances; but let us look resolutely to this sector of the future. it is important that the commission implements what my report recommends, particularly in its research and innovation aspects. consumers and the whole industry will be involved.
- mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr hugues martin on this excellent report, which he has drawn up in consultation with the professionals. at a time when the demand for fish is expected to increase considerably and when the sound management of fish stocks should be an objective, aquaculture has a de facto complementary role to play in supplying markets. however, as the rapporteur points out, its development requires a number of precautions. in view of the experience gained, we would like to stress the need to strengthen research, because it is not conceivable to base this development on systems of breeding which show their limits. research must therefore be equipped with the means to provide answers to the key questions arising, such as the impact on the environment, the reduction of the use of fishmeal in the diet, the development of less carnivorous species, the control of diseases, the genetic risks to natural populations linked to escapement and the development of new products. i also support the rapporteur in refusing the introduction of genetically modified fish into the european union. livestock products and fishery products are different. they must therefore be identified accordingly in order to give consumers the freedom of choice. but the expansion of aquaculture production can only be envisaged as a complement to traditional production, which, let us not forget, actively contributes to the economic activity of our coastal regions.
- mr president, this is a good report, solid and well-worked, concerning an important sector in which we are very short of funds - we import more than half of the fish we consume - where traceability can only be better ensured by domestic production and where, with a resource ceiling, aquaculture can create essential complementary jobs in our coastal regions. the rapporteur is right to denounce the silence of the green paper on aquaculture and to point out the shortcomings of the commission's communication of september 2002. the aquaculture sector is characterised above all by the size and duration of the research effort, which is often disproportionate to the financing possibilities of young, family-run, low-capitalised enterprises operating in a context of intense competition and unstable prices. for example, the french company which created the european turbot industry, headed by michel adrien from vendée, had to invest chf 2.5 million per year in pure research for ten years before it was able to master the technique of turbot breeding in captivity. should and can such heavy, costly research programmes, involving considerable technical and commercial uncertainties, and dealing with questions of fundamental biology be undertaken entirely by companies? i don't think he did. i believe, on the contrary, that this type of research must be carried out, to a large extent, with the help of public funds, just as the permanent renovation of the work equipment of the small-scale fishing enterprise, that is, its vessels. it is clear that in such cases state aid cannot be considered to distort competition. i am thinking in particular of research into new vaccines to eliminate the risks associated with the use of antibiotics. this is a crucial issue for the future and the perception of the sector. strong financial incentives, both at national and community level, must therefore be put in place. i also support the idea of adjusting the rules of the fifg, and i will add those of the eaggf, to allow the financing of aid for the settlement of young people, the transfer of holdings, consumer information. i share the rapporteur's concern about the risk of genetically modified fish and it is clear that this practice must be completely banned both for production in the european union and for import. finally, mr president, we must be very vigilant about unfair competition practices by certain third countries, since dumping must be absolutely prohibited in an emerging and volatile market. the import of aquaculture products which do not comply with the standards imposed on producers in the european union must be strictly prohibited and this prohibition duly controlled.
mr president, our colleague mr martin's report deals with a scientifically exciting and exciting subject, including economic and social issues, and it is also a topical issue. the prestige case in galicia, where spain is the leader in shellfish farming, or arcachon, where france is the leader in oyster farming, showed that this was indeed a very fragile activity, both in terms of continental aquaculture, which our colleague van dam seems to have forgotten, and in terms of marine aquaculture, that is to say fish farming, but also oyster farming. it is an activity that is very closely linked (you have to know it well to understand it) to the environment, these are extremely subtle balances. not just water, not just currents, not just chemistry, not just biology. consider that in enclosed environments, such as coastal ponds, the mediterranean, lake thau, the mere painting of boats can disturb the environment. that's why the sea farmers are doing sustainable development without knowing it all along. it is a future activity, because we are moving out of the harvest to carry out noble activities with noble fish - whether bars, daurads, turbot - and high-tech activities; to undertake major scientific breakthroughs, research on gmos, on diploid or triploid oysters, on vaccines. with, of course, limitations that must be taken into account. it is certain that fish are used to feed fish. the quantities of fishmeal are therefore greater than the quantities of fish produced and there is a risk that the fishery will be fed by the meal; hence the need for research. health problems: these are not just problems of antibiotics or bacteria, but of mysterious, microscopic algae, like dinophysis. hence the need to avoid intensive farming, to control gmos, especially genetically modified salmon, and the need to have deep-sea farms, as in japan. but we must not do bambi, walt disney, and talk about fish welfare; otherwise, you'll have to stop opening the oysters because it's cruel or putting lemon in them because they're suffering. the establishment of young people must therefore be encouraged by training, investment in sewage treatment plants and bars, cutting-edge scientific research, perhaps even nanobiology, and the creation of quality labels (for example for oysters from arcachon, but also for those from bouzigues, which may be superior, or from the thau pond). finally, mr president, with ten thousand years of delay, ten thousand years of delay on the peasants of the earth, perhaps we should consider cultivating the sea.
- we just voted on an association agreement with lebanon. less than a year ago, this parliament called for the termination of an association agreement between europe and israel. in the name of what principles would what was valid yesterday for israel not be valid today for lebanon? i think it is worth recalling that this country is not a democracy, that this country is not a state governed by the rule of law, that the fundamental rights and principles we hold dear are trampled on every day, that lebanon continues to harbour terrorist organisations, in particular hezbollah, that this country is occupied and 'annexed' by another country, syria. and we are reaching out to lebanon. i believe that a balanced european policy would be, of course, a policy open to the countries of the middle east, open to all the countries of the region, but which would obviously have to begin by maintaining the association agreement with israel, which we see threatened every day by various initiatives, in particular the initiatives of scientific boycott which are shameful and must be denounced. i believe that the right european policy is an open policy on lebanon, but that europe's place is in any case alongside israel.
in writing. - the ebrd was set up after the fall of the berlin wall to provide financial support for the penetration of western capital into central and eastern europe and the cis (former ussr). the rapporteur does not call into question the bank's actions, or the market framework in which it operates, although he would like the ebrd to be more concerned with employment and the impact of its activities on the economy and the people concerned. but the pursuit of profit - particularly by multinational companies, which are the object of the ebrd's attention, as the rapporteur points out - and the fate and welfare of the people are contradictory. the fact that in russia the ebrd invests where private banks and companies do not risk, and that it has sometimes suffered heavy losses - for having, like many local and international speculators, played the financial casino that has further ruined the country - would not move us if, behind such activities, there was not the appalling plunder of the peoples of eastern europe. we can try to disguise its real role, but the ebrd is an instrument of the plundering of the peoples of eastern europe by imperialism. we therefore rejected the report.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate my colleague helmuth markov on his excellent report, which was unanimously adopted by his parliamentary committee. the ebrd is not linked to the european union. it is also not a development bank within the world bank group. its capital comes from more than 60 countries interested in the future of central and eastern europe after the fall of the berlin wall. during the 12 years of transition, the ebrd faced many challenges. its president, jacques de larosière, came to the gue-ngl group to give us an account of its activities. i think we should support it, as does the rapporteur. although the aim is to develop the market economy in these former communist countries, the social, environmental and public service dimensions are not sacrificed. the ebrd is not, as some might believe, the ambassador of ultra-liberalism. its mandate is to invest where other banks dare not. i welcome the fact that the ebrd is concentrating most of its activities on the development of small and mediumsized enterprises, which are known to play a key role in job creation!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the current situation in chechnya is not very tense, as the compromise text says, but that it is extremely serious. on the one hand, there are several generations of chechens who have known nothing but war and violence up to now and who can at any time be drawn by the most extremist fringes into reckless terrorist acts. on the other hand, there is a real colonial war, waged by the russian army, which has resulted in mass raids, human rights abuses, assassinations, kidnappings and, above all, the scandalous release on 31 december 2002 of colonel yuri budanov, accused of raping and murdering an 18-year-old chechen girl. from this point of view, the captivity of a humanitarian worker is something quite scandalous. i think we should not have two weights and two measures. if we receive president putin, we must do something for the minister of health who has returned to baku and no longer has a visa, for ahmed za-kaiev, who i spoke to yesterday and is still under house arrest in britain, or for the foreign minister detained without a visa in the united states. it is also necessary that these people should be able to obtain visas: it takes two to make peace.
- mr president, mr high representative, mr commissioner, we are on the edge of a knife. on the one hand, the inspectors obtained the green light from the security council which they wished to have for their immediate mission; on the other hand, the us-british naval fleet in the gulf is growing stronger by the day, as is the pressure to launch a military offensive. in this context of extreme tension and faced with such heavy stakes, any political act or ambiguous talk about war, but also, if necessary, any lack of initiative against war, is indeed an asset in the game of the most bellicose and unilateralist administration in the history of the united states. it is at the foot of the wall that we recognize the builder, it is in a critical international situation that we assess europe's ambition on the world stage. you, mr high representative, seem to be welcoming the common position of the fifteen, or at least of the four countries currently sitting on the security council. it's about enjoying yourself at a low cost. the declaration had hardly been published when london and madrid, among others, began to empty it of its substance, declaring that there was a flagrant violation of resolution 1441, and that the suspension of the inspectors was to be extremely brief. others are trying to extract passages from mr blix's report which are taken out of context in an attempt to justify the use of force. it is as if, in the eyes of some, it were not good news but bad news that mr blix says that the inspectors were able, on the whole, to gain easy access to all the sites, to the extent of having carried out 300 inspections in 60 days. or that mr el-baradei thinks he can, and i quote, 'in the coming months provide credible assurance that iraq has no nuclear weapons programme'. of course there are still areas of shadow which need to be cleared up. but it won't be done with bombs and blood. we must be frank and, on the other hand, much more aggressive in demanding that the inspectors be allowed to work for as long as necessary. stop trivializing the war ! beware of the gradual and insidious acceptance of the unacceptable! let us therefore review all that europe has accepted without reacting, if not with a certain amount of laxity, from ariel sharon in palestine for the last two years. i do not think that he should be congratulated, mr high representative. we must resolutely fight its disastrous policy, including for the israeli people themselves. (applause) and what has europe said about george bush's new strategic doctrine, published on 20 september last, which magnifies, i quote, 'the unparalleled strength of the united states' and emphasizes, i quote again, 'their determination to act alone, if necessary preventively, in order to extend the triumph of freedom'. and what is europe saying today in response to the irresponsible statements made by the secretary-general of the white house last sunday, suggesting that the united states would not rule out the use of tactical nuclear weapons in the event of a conflict in iraq? weapons of mass destruction are in iraq, they are in the region, and they are in the world, and they must be destroyed and banned. let's hear what the public thinks. (applause) i would like to thank mr blair and mr aznar are isolated in their own country on the question of war. the germans are plebisciting against it. four out of five french people want paris to use its veto if necessary to try to prevent the worst. and across the atlantic, an unprecedented movement since vietnam is rising on the theme, how lucid: no blood for oil. (mr le pen: it is like europe in 1938) keep your cool ! we're not interested in what you think. my group would like to be able to affirm these values, to affirm these demands in iraq itself, without the slightest complacency towards the authorities, mr watson, on the contrary - no one in my entire political history will be able to find the slightest complacency towards this dictator, no one! which is not the case with certain right-wing governments - ... (applause)... without the slightest complacency towards the authorities, therefore, and in the midst of a population which has already been suffering for twelve years the effects of a criminal embargo. that is why my group, unanimously, together with my green and socialist colleagues and even members of other groups in this parliament, have put forward the idea of a delegation of members going to baghdad from 2 to 6 february. we shall be more than thirty members of parliament. and in the same spirit, my group has proposed - and will do - to send a delegation to the united states. in baghdad, in new york and in washington, we want to defend an idea of europe, mr president, in which many progressive men and women still place their hopes. let 's not disappoint them . (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are in danger of repeating ourselves today. i'd like to make you a proposition. it is obvious that no one here today is defending a dictator. those who were communists are not communists anymore, they don't support any communist dictatorship. and i think that of all those who visited saddam hussein to deliver nuclear power stations to him, or, for example, to deliver chemical weapons to iran, as did that young american who was then close to the secretary of state and whose name was mr rumsfeld, no one today would do what he did then. (applause) let's take note of that, but that's not the problem. the problem is the credibility of an international institution when it comes to imposing what a german sociologist has cleverly defined: make law, not war. the problem today is whether we are capable of enforcing the law at the international level. in the present situation - as mr patten and mr solana have said - the argument is that if iraq does not cooperate, it must be forced to disarm. so you're arguing, in the medium to short term, for military intervention. i believe that in the international order we must define the situations in which we must fight dictatorships and those in which we must use diplomatic means. i am the one who says this, i who, often against my group or other groups, have defended and still defend the military intervention in kosovo, the intervention in afghanistan. i also believe that it was right, again against the majority of my group, to intervene at the time saddam hussein invaded kuwait, but i believe that today saddam hussein has never been so weak in a decade. it is a bloody dictator who is weak and who is now incapable of attacking from outside. that is a distinction in the fight against dictatorships, those who act outside and those who do not. it is a matter of slaughter, ladies and gentlemen: four million deaths in uganda, with machetes, not with weapons of mass destruction, they killed each other with machetes. what did we do? who intervened to stop this carnage? no one ! no one intervened ! so let's just keep it together. we saw millions of deaths, blood, and no one was interested: no interest in oil. we spent years intervening in bosnia: no interest in oil. so let's cut down on our big talk about dictatorships and murder and children dying. but there's a problem. iran today has rockets. iran is in the process of acquiring nuclear weapons. iran can now attack israel, europe, greece and reach these regions. is anyone suggesting a military raid on iran? of course not . it would be too dangerous. today, north korea said it was going to produce nuclear weapons. is anyone suggesting military intervention? of course not ! it would be too dangerous. we are, with the arguments developed in relation to iraq, in the process of making a nuclear proliferation programme. we say to dictators: have weapons of mass destruction and no one will attack you ! that's the truth. that's why we have to go back. all right, the americans, the british are all around iraq, iraq can't move. so we have time. we have a year to wait. we say: these soldiers stay. but at the same time, let's show the world what we're capable of. let's settle the israeli-palestinian problem by always threatening saddam hussein. let's change the agenda, let's change our priorities. however, let's not lie, if there are inspectors today, it's because there are military men. but let's take advantage of this situation to contain and not to fight. at the same time, let's try to get negotiations in the middle east. i think ariel sharon is going to form a coalition that will force him to negotiate with the palestinians. first, we must force him to let the palestinians elect their own representatives so that they can negotiate with the israelis. let's change the schedule. we find a solution in the middle east and you will see that all the arab masses will come to applaud us if we have to settle accounts with saddam hussein. but if we first, in the first instance, settle with saddam hussein, perhaps for oil, without having taken and carried out an initiative in the middle east, we will not be credible and we will not create more justice in the world. so make law, not war, change the agenda, give us time, stay here a year, two years. we will disarm saddam hussein, but first we must find a solution in the middle east. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, everyone here is talking about the iraq crisis. there is no iraqi crisis, but a very serious international crisis deliberately created by the bush administration. it is not dictator saddam who is the war-maker. the war criminal is the democrat bush. it's not the iraqi aircraft carriers maneuvering off the coast of new england, or the iraqi marines positioning themselves in mexico or canada or cuba. it is the anglo-american armada that is resurrecting gunboat politics in the middle east. why was the alleged need to disarm iraq not brought to light before bush jr. was elected? no one really believes that iraq, a small country of 20 million people, surrounded by hostile or suspicious countries, whose army and economic infrastructure have been crushed by desert storm, whose people have been ruined by ten years of anglo-american aerial bombardment and a blockade that has murdered, among other things, more than a million children who have died of hunger and misery; no one believes that this small country, monitored by satellites and spy planes, by un monitors, could have built up an arsenal of weapons of mass destruction and threatened world peace. this is the sense of the testimony of one of the leading un inspectors, among others. was saddam not a dictator when he received arms of all kinds from the united states, europe, france and even jacques chirac? i am thinking of the nuclear reactor at osirak, which the israelis destroyed in a peaceful air raid. please, let's not be hypocrites! let's stop the charade of humanitarian indignation. the united states, whose oil reserves will be exhausted in ten years' time and which consumes a quarter of the 3.5 billion tonnes used by the planet, and which moreover cannot afford to have the price of a barrel exceed 30 dollars, wants to wage war to take iraqi oil and control the oil in the gulf. it is the giant united states, the superpower which has 80% of the world's weapons of mass destruction and, among other things, 8,000 nuclear warheads, terrifying weapons, which it is the only one to have used in the history of the world, which wants to make war. mr. solana wants to disarm iraq and hunt down dictators around the world. this last point constitutes a vast program that would require the united states to attack many of its allies. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. in the depths of your conscience, you think that the americans are also driving for europe, and that is why you will accept, with your eyes downcast, that they are committing the first great crime of humanity of the 21st century. you waited 30 years to find out that saddam used gas to asphyxiate the kurds. well, he had a forerunner: in 1920, in kurdistan, in the person of winston churchill! in terms of mass destruction, do you think that the powers involved have never used them and that they can give lessons of international morality to the world?
- mr president, the situation today is not surprising. it is little wonder that the united states has what might be called a need for war, simply because empires can only live by and in war. no wonder they need to make excuses. it is no wonder that europe is ridiculously divided on this issue. it is no wonder that france is, in europe and in the world, the symbol of resistance to imperial terrorism. of course, we know, the empire needs wars, as any empire since the beginning of time: war in kosovo in 1999, in afghanistan in 2001, in iraq today and perhaps soon, by the way, in côte d'ivoire - where it does it by nation intervening against france. he needs wars for a variety of reasons, oil of course, oil so necessary to the bush oil consortium, but also for economic reasons. the american economy, we are told by all the voices, is on hold and that is decidedly bad for growth. in this hellish system, the rescue is at the cost of a few hundred thousand deaths. once again, nothing surprises us. nor should we be surprised by washington's need to cover up its crimes. but the amazing thing is that we still took them seriously. the argument of weapons of mass destruction for which we have no evidence has long since been lost in the public minds of a large part of the world. in the event that we are accused of anti-americanism, i would remind you of what scott ritter, an american citizen who was part of the first inspection mission in 1998, was interrupted by the first, second or third american war. he simply wrote that saddam hussein could not have retained any usable chemical weapons program after the first inspection mission. i do not have time to go into the other points, but we are not surprised that europe is divided. some of its member countries feel more like members of the united states than of the european union, like britain, whose membership has led to questions about its place in the european union, but it is not alone. and then there are others, like france, who have in mind the idea of a world organized in nations. it is no wonder that france remains the symbol of resistance to imperial fury: this is its millenary vocation and the vast majority of its people are now united behind its president of the republic to carry out this task of many centuries.
mr president, we all know that pacifism has often been the worst enemy of peace: munich is in all memories. however, for the moment, the conclusion we have to make following the report of the inspectors is that there is no clear refusal on the part of iraq to implement resolution 1441. unless something is really new, and we shall see if the us secretary of state is able to bring it up, there is no justification at present for the security council to adopt a new resolution authorizing the launching of a military operation against baghdad. in order to justify the international community's move to the second phase of its action, the evidence should be commensurate with the seriousness of the accusations. so far, however, no evidence has been presented, although there are still large areas of uncertainty. in such a context, the outbreak of war, bypassing the security council, against a state which now appears to be complying with the decisions of the international community would certainly have the opposite of the desired effects. by placing saddam hussein in the paradoxical position of the innocent persecuted in the eyes of third world opinion, he would inevitably revive the islamist terrorism which we have precisely set out to eradicate. in the present circumstances, mr president, the remedy would therefore be worse than the disease.
mr president, today's debate is probably the most important debate i have had the honour of taking part in since i have entered this house. i believe that the very future of the european union is at stake in its legitimate ambitions to take on the international scene the place that is expected of it throughout the world: a europe allied with the united states in defence of our common values, but not necessarily aligned with all their positions. we know that, and we are constantly working on this in this parliament and in the convention, europe must speak with one voice. it is clear that there are still divided views on iraq between those who oppose any form of military threat or action; the european parliament has been very active in the fight against terrorism, and it has been very active in the fight against terrorism, and it has been very active in the fight against terrorism. to those who reject any idea of military action, to those who say 'never again war', i would say that i respect the generosity of their commitment, even if i do not share their angelic vision of a world totally disarmed, where universal peace could be established, where all violence could cease without the need for fear of the gendarme. i would remind those who have been affected by this tragedy of the kosovo experience, where europe was unable to force milosevic to stop his policy of ethnic cleansing because this dictator, who had always known how far he could go, did not believe in the political will of the european union or in its ability to implement it within the alliance. today, the world is unanimous in condemning saddam hussein, not only for the risk he poses in connection with international terrorism in the production and spread of weapons of mass destruction, but also for the cruelty of the regime he imposes on his people. we think, together with the un security council, that it must realize that it can no longer hesitate and that it must now, in the coming days, give proof that it is resigned and determined to disarm, otherwise it will have a war and no chance of winning it. to those of my colleagues who have decided to go to iraq to deliver a different message and to guarantee that there will never be a war, i say quite solemnly: beware that you yourselves, by encouraging it to its utter self-righteousness, are responsible for the fact that the international community may have no other choice but to impose by force of arms the execution of its will, which it has affirmed for years. i now turn to all those who think that all the elements are in place to authorize the immediate launching of armed action, without any need for a new un security council resolution, and i say to them: public opinion does not agree with you on this point because it demands proof that this action is indispensable and a guarantee that it will be carried out in compliance with and in defence of international law. colin powell must present this evidence to the security council, a delegation from our parliament must go to new york on monday to consider the matter with all the seriousness it deserves. if the evidence is given to us, i have no doubt that the un security council will draw the appropriate conclusions. if the evidence is still insufficient, then the un inspection mission should be given the time it needs to try again to avoid war. that is the meaning of our group's motion for a resolution and the joint resolution which will be tabled tomorrow. but you will understand, after what i have just said, that we cannot in any way give the impression that we are ruling out any idea of military action. that would be totally counterproductive and that is why we have tabled several amendments to the joint motion for a resolution, the most important of which concerns the current wording of article 3 which some might interpret in that way. i believe with the majority of my colleagues in the importance of this joint resolution, which should demonstrate to the world that at least in the european parliament the voices of europe are not divided, and i firmly hope that, in view of the amendments we are proposing, this resolution will be able to win the votes of as wide a majority as possible.
- mr president, everyone is aware that we are on the verge of a catastrophe today. the united states government, taking advantage of the terrorist actions of september 11, is imposing state terrorism on the entire planet with the aim of establishing its economic and military domination everywhere. president bush is not content to let the palestinian people be massacred, to let the embargo kill 500,000 children in iraq or, in the absence of medical care, millions of africans with aids, but he is going to invade iraq in order, among other things, to appropriate its oil. let 's get serious . who can believe for a second that the united states wants to oppose a terrorist dictatorship that would not respect the decisions of the un? let us not forget that pinochet and bin laden were cia recruited and trained agents, that israel has never implemented a single un resolution and yet, fortunately, no one is planning to bomb israel. human rights or profits: double standards. that's the choice. this war smells of oil, and the majority of this house knows it. without offering any support whatsoever to saddam's dictatorship, it is our duty to convey the mass refusal of the peoples, which will be expressed in all the capitals on 15 february, to the call of the porto alegre forum. with or without the un, this is not our war. it is estimated that it will cost nearly 30 billion dollars, whereas the un food programme has just been reduced, under pressure from the united states, to 1.7 billion dollars. the three imperatives of the hour are to reject war by all means, to use the money allocated to it to eradicate poverty and to enable the palestinian people to live in a free state.
- mr. president, my fellow americans, america is scared. she's been scared since 9/11. she's fought wars on every continent. it has seen little war on its soil: the last one was in the 1860s. so she's scared. and when a country or a continent is afraid, it can do stupid things. america should listen to old europe, that old lady full of wisdom, stained with tears and blood, the one she herself came to save from dictatorship fifty years ago. let her hear it! and this old lady has to say to him: choose security by international law, submit to the decisions of the un, accept another meeting of the un, which we must demand, for another resolution. we all know the americans are the strongest. we're forced to take note. that's no reason to be one-sided. this is no reason to be concerned with national interests alone. i must say that our contemporaries smell a hell of a lot of oil in this business. some people will say that's not true, but they feel it and they know that three quarters of the oil reserves are there, that america needs it, that europe needs it, that tomorrow china will need it; they know that these reserves, these resources must be used for the development of our countries, but also for the countries of the south. these are the world's reserves for everyone, and first of all for these countries. finally, a final word to the young europe, our young europe, the young girl we are building. it will be a moment of truth for her and we must harmonize the position of the five members she has on the security council, four members plus one candidate. what happened on monday is not enough. we should be able to coordinate our positions so that we can decide together what to do with our two veto rights in the security council, anticipating what our future may be. in any case, there is no reason to give up the right to hold a meeting or to veto.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we know how important and irreplaceable this 59th session of the commission on human rights is. we must not allow it to weaken in its work, in its functions and in its presidency. because who but the commission on human rights, women's, children's, minorities, etc., could demand reports on countries that imprison people for crimes they have not committed? i am thinking, for example, of mr bandajevski, who is weakening in the prisons of belarus; i think of lemine ould cheikh melaïnine who is languishing in the dungeons of mauritania. we must give our full support to the proper functioning of this commission so that it can play its full part. to this end, we must ensure that the commission's rapporteurs and the humanitarian ngos, who are often the real witnesses and representatives of the voiceless on the ground, are given sufficient time to speak. the debate is also an opportunity to recall the rights of indigenous peoples, because if in too many states fundamental rights are being violently violated, what about the rights of indigenous peoples whose definition and legal guarantees are virtually ignored! we must strongly support the un initiative to have a permanent forum on these issues to raise awareness or promote the cause of indigenous peoples. we must also be vigilant to ensure that the working party, the only one of its kind dealing with indigenous issues, is maintained. and in turn, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament would be honoured to set up the european parliament/indigenous peoples delegation decided upon when a resolution was voted in 1992.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the democratic republic of the congo, because of its geostrategic location, has always been considered a power with great potential on the black continent. sadly, under the dictatorship of president mobutu, the country was plunged into economic and political crisis. you should know that in 20 years, per capita gdp has been divided by six. i believe that this was linked, among other things, to the disappearance of the official circuits and the administration which gave informal activities an importance that has no equivalent anywhere else. while it has enormous potential in terms of agricultural, forestry and mining resources - and on this point i agree with what my colleague said - the democratic republic of the congo is paradoxically one of the poorest countries in the world. i believe that this situation is the result of poor management, including economic management, of a failing infrastructure, but also of the illegal exploitation of wealth. that is what is important in the un report. since mineral resources are already largely depleted in many parts of the world, and even exhausted in many countries, the resources exploited in the congo are of certain economic interest, particularly because of their low cost. i think we have a real responsibility in this regard. in this context, the un report warns us of the illegal exploitation of the drc's natural resources by private european companies - which is particularly worrying - and by neighbouring countries which also have their responsibilities. in view of the johannesburg summit, in view of the provisions of the international criminal court and the cotonou agreements, in the face of this scandal which, i believe, is damaging the planet's ecosystem, in the face of the reign of poaching and human rights violations, i believe that the european union must ask the un security council to open proceedings against those responsible, in particular by freezing assets and conducting investigations into pogroms and other violence against the people. the council and the commission must also have a binding legal framework and call for greater transparency in the way contracts are awarded. more generally, i would say that in this fight we are all fighting together against the violation of the physical integrity of individuals and are working for peace and sustainable development: environmental protection, social equity and good governance are the key words.
- madam president, the situation in the congo is dramatic. millions of citizens live in appalling conditions. hunger and aids are the daily lot of men and women caught up in endless conflict, fuelled by the presence of networks of so-called elites who take advantage of a chaotic situation to enrich themselves. top political leaders, regional and foreign industrialists, as well as the armed forces, have set up what amounts to a veritable war economy. they are fomenting a conflict under the guise of political or ethnic opposition, the sole purpose of which is the outright plunder of the drc's natural resources to the detriment of the local population. the un report which we have presented to the committee on development and cooperation is a great opportunity for us to put an end to this human tragedy. the list of names of those involved in this pernicious traffic must be the starting point for us to take concrete and vigorous action. we must now put pressure on our own companies to stop taking advantage of confusing situations, when they are not creating them, to enrich themselves fraudulently. we must not be fooled again. the responsibility of companies is now closely linked to that of our governments. if we do not quickly send a strong political signal by taking restrictive measures against them and by reiterating our commitment to the principles of the oecd, they will continue to flout the law and human rights without fail. we cannot turn a blind eye to what is nothing more or less than neo-colonial plunder that does not want to say its name. by requiring european companies operating in foreign territories to make public their financial accounts, we will allow for greater transparency and thus limit the illegal diversion of funds, the first victims of which are still congolese citizens. it is clear that the establishment of a rule of law and democratic institutions will be unavoidable. but prior coordinated action by member states to put an end to the actions of their national companies has become essential. it is high time that the citizens of the democratic republic of congo fully and directly benefit from the wealth of their land and achieve the level of development that their mineral resources would allow if they were not constantly and illegally exploited by foreign powers.
- mr president, famines are increasing in africa. we're moved by the children who are starving, but we don't address the causes. beyond the climate hazards, famines are the result of structural policies, including agricultural and trade policies, which have led farmers in poor countries to produce for export rather than for local consumption. food aid is not a viable solution. in the name of good conscience, it has often become a means for rich countries to dispose of their agricultural surpluses and also to legitimize their devastating policy of overproduction. the united states is therefore rushing to sell its boycotted gmos on the european market, not only in the form of food but also in the form of seeds. cynically, they accuse governments of allowing their people to die if they refuse to provide such aid. this blackmail of vulnerable populations is indecent. it is contrary to the fundamental right to food which recognizes that every human being has the freedom to choose his food. who are the most guilty ? the countries suffering from famine that refuse to feed their populations with potentially harmful products, or those that offer only genetically modified seeds to help poor people, whose consequences for the environment and biodiversity will prove to be disastrous? in some of these countries or regions, food shortages are not widespread. the problem is not necessarily a lack of food, but an equitable distribution of it around the world. only local production and intra-regional trade are sustainable and can guarantee access to food for all. the european union, on the other hand, advocates free trade at the global level and forces developing countries to open their markets. in return, it promises to open its market to all products, except arms, but of course also, except bananas, except sugar, etc., from the least developed countries. not only has this measure created competition between developing countries, instead of increasing their market shares, but it has also promoted export crops at the expense of self-sufficient food crops. in the same vein, the current crisis in coffee farming reminds us that free trade leads to the ruin of small farmers and the prosperity of large multinational firms. free trade is not fair trade. in fact, there is no reference to fair trade in the new commission communication on trade and development, which we shall soon have the opportunity to discuss in this house. president lula has made the fight against hunger his priority. it proposes the creation of an international fund for this purpose. this is also the aim of the fao, whose recent summit seems to have had no significant impact. the greens believe that only sustainable development of food production based on the needs of local people and fair trade between north and south, that is, trade that pays its fair price, reflecting the social and environmental costs of production, resources and workers in poor countries, can eradicate hunger in the world.
- mr president, commissioner, the integration of the economies of the poorest countries into the world trade system remains a decoy if the revenue envisaged does not take account of the difficulties these countries face in trading and, above all, in developing. the fight against poverty and food insecurity, and the prevention of the conflicts that often follow, must target the structural causes and free ourselves from failed economic, agricultural and trade policies. the main economic obstacles to meeting the food needs of billions of people are well known: the obligation to sell at prices below production costs, the quasi-obligation imposed on the agriculture of these countries to target export products useful to the northern countries before they are needed by the populations of the south, the liberalization of trade promoted by international institutions such as the world bank, the imf and the wto, to the detriment of the right of peoples to define their own policy. the commission could decide to tackle these problems. unfortunately, i fear that the path taken is, once again, not the right one. indeed, the undp report in 2002 reminds us that if the process continues at this turtle-like pace, it will take more than 130 years to eliminate hunger. world hunger deserves better than a pressing appeal from rich countries to poor countries to rely on the rules of the wto. when 60 percent of zambia's population is in need of food aid and the multinational monsanto, with dupont, controls 93 percent of the market for its seeds, it deserves better than short-sighted, short-term private investment. when world trade is worth $7 trillion a year, when financial transactions are worth $1.5 trillion a day and when the world bank itself considers it necessary to double global development aid, which is capped at $50 billion a year, when is a useful tax levied on international financial transactions to finance this aid? that is where the european union could be useful. the fight against poverty requires that developing countries gain the right to set their own priorities, their own strategies to support sustainable food production by mobilising their natural and human resources, local know-how, investing in the structural transformation of their economies, and also benefiting from legitimate guaranteed prices. free trade agreements between unequal parties, based on the abolition of customs tariffs, regardless of the level of development of each, have exacerbated poverty and have a negative impact on food security. there is an urgent need to encourage local agriculture and food production, by promoting access to land, water and biodiversity resources. there's an emergency to cancel the debts.
- mr president, today, of the six billion people in the world, more than 800 million suffer from malnutrition. three quarters of them are rural people, people whose vocation is to provide not only for themselves but also for their fellow citizens. these 600 million poor farmers are unable to feed themselves or their fellow farmers, because they are the direct victims of the fall in agricultural prices dictated by the liberalization of trade, and they have no choice but to cut off their own stocks of food in an attempt to preserve, often without success, their production potential. how do we get them out of this hell spiral ? by adopting a new approach to the globalisation of agricultural and food trade, the core of which must be the recognition of the principle of food sovereignty. this principle states that each country or group of countries is free to determine its own food supply. food sovereignty is the recognition of the right of peoples to feed themselves and the right of peoples to feed themselves as they wish. it is the opportunity for developing countries to achieve food self-sufficiency by developing their agriculture. it is not enough to proclaim the right of the developing countries to develop their food crops, but the rules of international trade in agricultural products must not prevent them from doing so in practice. these countries must therefore be given the clearest possible recognition of their right to protect their agriculture and to open their markets only selectively, as europe itself has done to end its food dependence. the countries that have been most successful in reducing hunger are those where responsible governments have been able, through policies of supporting agricultural prices and subsidies for inputs and infrastructure, to enable their farmers to access their own internal markets, thereby increasing their purchasing power and productivity and thus their production. if we are to tackle the problem of hunger seriously, it is therefore urgent to put an end to the fall in agricultural prices: the farmer's access to a profitable local market is the first condition for the growth of agricultural production, which is itself the key to the reduction of hunger. the total and unchecked liberalization of agricultural trade does not serve the interests of the hungry countries, it serves the interests of the structurally agricultural exporting countries, but it ruins the poor farmers of the developing countries. it makes no sense to want to put the chadian peasant in direct competition with the farmer in minnesota, the shepherd in the andes and the latifundia in new zealand. if the european union is to make an effective contribution to the eradication of hunger in the world, it must therefore be particularly vigilant in three key areas. first, all agricultural development projects financed by the community in the developing countries will have to include a component of aid for the marketing of food products. secondly, the european union will have to help developing countries or groups of countries with similar production costs to protect their internal market against the dumping prices of the world market, with the help of instruments without which their producers will be ruined. thirdly, the european union must finally exert its full weight in international trade negotiations to ensure that the right to agricultural exception is recognised, that is to say, the right of nations to protect their farmers, who feed them and whose prosperity is a condition for their take-off.
- mr president, in europe, each cow receives, on average, two euros a day from the european union. two euros a day: more than two billion men and women do not have that much to survive. the hunger and malnutrition against which we are protesting here are not the result of the inability of the earth to feed its inhabitants, but rather the result of specific political situations, or even a number of international policies for which we are partly responsible. yes, sometimes it can be local political situations - war, state collapse, murderous madness of groups of individuals or leaders - but it can also be the effects of international policies. we have already spoken about this: the debt, the burden of our agricultural subsidies which are ruining farmers in the southern countries, but also the orientation of agriculture and the economy of many developing countries primarily towards the export of a few products, a few raw materials, with the consequence of a monoculture contrary to the objective of food self-sufficiency, food security, which in turn presupposes agricultural diversification. that is why i agree with what mr graefe zu baringdorf said earlier, that access to the northern markets, to our markets, is extremely important, but it is also an extremely partial vision. i believe that we must take great care to ensure that regional integration, economic diversification and food security can be ensured in these developing countries. a number of us are returning from porto alegre. president lula's victory and the policy he wants to pursue, particularly against hunger, are raising great hope, tremendous hope, in brazil, in latin america and, beyond that, in all the developing countries. if this policy were to bear fruit, it would open up a new perspective in terms of development and democratic hope. what are we going to do to stand with brazil, to help them succeed in this experiment? at the imf, will we continue to demand that this country has budgets with an annual surplus of 3.75% when we say that a 3% maximum deficit under the stability pact is rigid and stupid? we are faced with problems of consistency. while you are trying to encourage the member states and the union to increase development aid, we have policies within international organisations - we could also speak of the wto - which sometimes run counter to the success of these objectives. in conclusion, president lula called on porto alegre and davos to create a large global fund to fight hunger and poverty. are we gonna be there for her ? will we propose, will the commission propose to the council and parliament, a taxation of the wealth created by globalisation to feed this fund which would be managed by the united nations? it would be a concrete response and a strong political signal.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. - mr president, the action programme for the fight against poverty-related diseases that the european union is putting in place is vital, but it must be comprehensive. the people of the south continue to die of aids, malaria and tuberculosis at an unbridled rate, but the means are weaker than the talk. these populations also suffer from dengue fever, trypanosomiasis and other filariasis, but unfortunately nothing is done about these diseases. first of all, i regret the informal procedure which prevailed until today's debate. we have been under strong pressure from the commission and the council to adopt this regulation at first reading, in order to allow the programme to enter into force quickly, but in reality we have been subjected to a real blackmail by these institutions, which are determined to weaken this report and to undermine our co-decision power. we were surprised by their reluctance to accept a specific reference to the doha declaration on public health and intellectual property and the rights it grants to developing countries in terms of access to medicines. what happened to the european declarations that health is more important than profit? the european parliament has repeatedly reaffirmed that access to affordable treatment is inseparable from prevention, the strengthening of health systems and structures, including public services, and research and development. the commission had seemed receptive to his arguments as long as they were not binding. his attitude to this legislation has changed. in december, for example, in geneva, in the context of the trips council negotiations, the member states and the commission took little account of the european parliament's resolutions on access to medicines. the solution advocated by the european union for countries which, lacking production capacity at home, have to import medicines under compulsory licensing from other countries was totally unmanageable by developing countries. ironically, this bad agreement was rejected by the united states, which wanted to reduce its scope even further. the overall budget for the programme has also been cut: €350 million for a five-year programme is very little in the face of the challenges. this is much less than the €500 million initially requested. in conclusion, i would say that this regulation must be adopted as a matter of urgency, but not at the expense of democracy. the european parliament is not here to promote our own selfish interests, but those of the citizens of the world.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this regulation was expected. it should also make it possible to launch the european union's action plan against aids, malaria and tuberculosis in the countries of the south. and there is an emergency. these diseases continue to kill millions every year, mostly in developing countries, because we know that the sick are in the south and the drugs are in the north. the report by mr wijkman is a response to two fundamental questions of public health in the south. firstly, the financial resources that the european union will devote to the fight against these three diseases in the coming years. the adoption of this regulation is an important step in this respect, but i would like to consider it as only a first step, because in june 2001 at the united nations the international community committed itself to reaching the target of 7 to 10 billion dollars in annual expenditure for the fight against aids in developing countries alone by 2005. so we are far from it, and if europe wants to meet its commitments, it will have to go beyond the 351 million over four years that the rapporteur and we are proposing together. the second issue in this regulation is the political support given by the european union to the countries of the south in their fight to promote public health. the committee on development and cooperation has done its work on this point. the regulation will now contain an explicit and unequivocal reference to the doha declaration on intellectual property, which recognises the specific rights of the countries of the south. the commission will also promote access to medicines in developing countries by making medicines available at the lowest possible prices. but above all, the eu's political support must be expressed and made very tangible at the wto. i regret in this connection the failure of the negotiations last december on the clarification of article 31 of the agreements on intellectual property. the european union must give its full support to the proposals of the countries of the south to overcome this impasse. that is the request, commissioner, that i would ask you to forward to commissioner lamy.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am the rapporteur for the implementation, through an article 169 programme of eur 600 million, of a partnership between europe and developing countries in the field of research against aids, malaria and tuberculosis. i would like to congratulate mr wijkman. we are all aware of the urgency and the seriousness of the situation. five million people die every year from one of these three diseases; almost 40 million people are infected with aids: 90% of them live in developing countries, with a large proportion - 70% - in sub-saharan africa. there is also a resurgence of tuberculosis. malaria, which reappeared in the 1970's, is again affecting countries where it was eradicated. the european union must therefore adopt a strategy to combat these diseases effectively and quickly. the regulation under discussion here defines the framework for community action. it also creates the legal basis for europe's contribution, with the aim of stimulating research to develop medicines, treatments and vaccines and facilitating access to them. this is absolutely vital because only 10 percent of research activities are on the diseases that are responsible for 90 percent of the conditions around the world. so we need to do public research and encourage private sector investment. it is also important that these medicines are adapted to the living conditions in the countries concerned and that they can be distributed through health systems worthy of the name. finally, prices must not be prohibitive, and this brings us back to the problem of intellectual property. i therefore support this report, mr president, and i hope that it will be adopted in one reading.
mr president, the report has the merit of pointing out the dire situation in the third world countries in the face of aids, malaria and tuberculosis, which alone kill five million people every year. this is all the more shocking because, while there is no cure for aids, there is a cure for malaria and tuberculosis. the proposals put forward are far from being up to the task. the rapporteur, moreover, stresses the ridiculously small place that the research and development community gives to health problems in developing countries. it points out that only 10% of research activities are devoted to the diseases responsible for 90% of the world's illnesses. he added that where there is a market failure, public research should be encouraged. but if there is a shortage of markets, the private sector must be forced to invest, not encouraged to do so by making the public contribute to its profits.
- for those who might be confused about the adjective "forced", it only refers to prostitution and of course not child labor.
in writing. - after supporting the directive on public access to environmental information, we now support public participation in environmental programmes. this text will have the difficult task of making decision-making more transparent and involving local people in projects that affect their health and the environment. all too often, everything is done in the corridors of the ministries, without consultation and out of sight. we can congratulate the rapporteur and the conciliation committee on their work. the obligation for environmental authorities to inform the public of the decisions taken and the reasons for these decisions is imperative. it is essential to ensure that the timeframe for participation in public surveys is sufficient to allow people to prepare for them. however, two provisions are unacceptable in their present form. firstly, i believe that training the public in decision-making is a matter for the associations. secondly, we must ensure that interpretation is flexible, so as to avoid paralysing the public authorities by means of cumbersome and costly public inquiries, and also to avoid the ngos becoming the mouthpieces of the people. as you read the text, this is a risk that cannot be ruled out.
in writing. - mrs hautala's report on the quality of petrol and diesel will have serious economic implications for farms and forests for several reasons. first, by extending to non-road mobile machinery (agricultural and forestry tractors in particular) the fuel quality standards applicable to all road vehicles. this measure falls, in my view, within the scope of the emnr (non-road mobile engines) directive. secondly, by lowering the sulphur content of non-road mobile machinery, which will result in an increase of 8 to 10% in the price per litre. this measure, which increases the number of diesel grades on the market, will pose significant logistical problems without any real environmental added value. finally, in agriculture, the use of a new class of fuel oil requires the farmer to change his storage tanks, which represents an additional cost of about eur 5000 per holding. these proposals will create new and unbearable burdens for a sector already weakened by the health crises and awaiting the new guidelines of the cap. to avoid ruining an agriculture which is already in serious trouble, the emnr should have been excluded from the scope of the directive and the council's realistic position should have been followed.
in writing. - i explained in the plenary debate why i supported this report and the link with the research programme for which i am the rapporteur, a programme with a budget of eur 600 million. i hope that we will reach agreement with the commission and the council on parliament's request for increased appropriations and on the question of access to costs and prices adapted to the poverty of the sick in the southern countries.
in writing. - as the rapporteur points out, trade policies cannot simply ignore the challenges posed by priority diseases at global level. their impact is counter to the effectiveness of development policies. the eradication of these diseases depends on access to essential medicines. the question of the cost of these drugs is therefore raised, as is the question of promoting new drugs. the aim is to consolidate research and development so that an aberrant situation can be brought to an end: only 10% of research efforts are devoted to the diseases responsible for 90% of the world's illnesses. moreover, while it seems logical that these measures should be coordinated with those envisaged in the field of sexual and reproductive health, there can be no question of adopting a misguided approach and imposing, in particular, abortion as an unassailable horizon of development aid and not seeking to empower populations by recalling, among other things, the necessary respect for life and human beings, whatever their stage of development and state of health.
in writing. - one of the main tasks of the european union is to ensure that everyone has access to fundamental rights. access to healthcare is a right recognised for all citizens of the union by article 35 of the charter of fundamental rights. poverty, poverty and social exclusion are violations of dignity and the european union is proud to do everything in its power to establish this right to health protection wherever diseases are due to poverty. a strong correlation has been established between poverty and the spread of disease. the regulation is an extremely interesting instrument; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's pharmaceutical industry is able to compete with the united states in the market for pharmaceutical products. the european union must focus on the prevention of poverty-related diseases. these prevention efforts must go hand in hand with treatment and support is needed for those infected. it is important to allocate more resources and the commission must have a trained and sufficient staff. we also want to intensify research on these diseases in order to find treatments and vaccines. it should be recalled that in october 2001 the european parliament called for 10% of the community budget for development cooperation to be devoted to health. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
mr president, i regret that i was unable to vote in favour of the resolution on iraq, not because i am a warmonger or because i am in favour of intervention outside the rule of law, but because all the amendments adopted have significantly distorted the original intentions of the drafters of the compromise text, have led to a text which considerably dilutes iraqi responsibilities, which seems to exonerate iraq from any participation in the terrorist threat and which, i am convinced, will be greeted in iraq with a smile from saddam hussein, not to mention an even more irresponsible attitude towards the textual productions of our parliament.
in writing. - the resolution which the european parliament has just adopted on the situation in iraq is extremely disappointing, because it is looking in vain for a simple but essential phrase: 'if iraq does not facilitate the inspections decided by the un, or if it turns out that it is hiding weapons of mass destruction which it refuses to neutralize, the european union will support armed intervention'. there is nothing new in this sentence. but it is essential because it gives credibility to the inspectors, it induces the regime in baghdad to open its doors to them without any disguise, and in this way it can prevent the situation from deteriorating further. such firmness today would be an asset to the maintenance of peace in the future. by omitting this sentence, the resolution adopted may give the impression that the union is not really ready to act if saddam hussein continues to be biased, and in this respect it is disastrous. we even heard the chairman of the socialist group say: 'no to war, no to dictator saddam!' we know how this kind of attitude ends up too easily: we tolerate the dictator at first so as not to have war, and in the end we end up with both the dictator and the war.
in writing. - we cannot vote for such a falsely pacifist and humanist resolution, whose sole purpose is to clear the customs duties of good parliamentary souls while justifying in advance the warmongering policies of bush and the imperialist accomplices who will follow in his footsteps. the references to international law and un security council decisions are only there to support the charade about the danger in iraq, weapons of mass destruction, the need for international control, etc. all this control is just a pretext, and the resolution is intended to give weight to a vulgar pretext to justify in advance the likely mass slaughter of the iraqi population by the weapons of mass destruction of the americans and their allies. iraq is no more dictatorial than its arab neighbours. yet it is only this country that is targeted and for no particular reason compared to its neighbours. if democracies want to defend as they claim democracy, women's rights, and all political and trade union freedoms in the middle eastern countries, let them do so. but not by coldly planning the slaughter of the iraqi people. so much duplicity, so much cynicism, hidden under a well-meaning veneer when it is a question of the death and misery of hundreds of thousands of human beings, is to be condemned without reservation.
in writing. - war is always a failure whose first victims are always the innocent citizens ! moreover, in this case, if iraq is not the only country ruled by a dictator, nor the only state with weapons of mass destruction, the fact that it has a lot of oil should not give j. w. bush the right to burn the region in the medium term. so we must say no to war and trust the un! that is why i voted in favour of the resolution against the war in parliament, although i regret that a large part of the right wing was opposed to it.
in writing. - i welcome the inclusion in the resolution of amendments, for which i voted, opposing any unilateral military action in iraq, calling on the un to note the consequences of the embargo on the iraqi civilian population and calling on the european union to consider resolving the conflict in the middle east as a top priority. but the resolution as a whole remains ambiguous. does it refer to the un security council the possibility of further action - including military intervention - after a full assessment of the situation? that is why i abstained on this text. the mobilization of public opinion must put a stop to the war logic that is developing every day. in this sense, i join the call of the porto alegre social forum for an international day of protest on 15 february. with or without the un, we must refuse this war!
in writing. - i am a signatory on behalf of the gue/ngl to a wide-ranging resolution, and i voted for it because it honestly presents the human rights situation, its real progress but also its serious shortcomings. this resolution is a "road map" for true democracies.
in writing. - we did not vote against this report for the simple reason that it expressly denounces the plundering of the congo by large private companies, including european ones, although it does not name them. but that did not lead us to vote in favour. in fact, the report does not speak out against the exploitation of the congo, but only against what it calls illegal exploitation. in other words, the exploitation that is carried out in a savage way by companies supported by armed gangs, with the complicity of lawless networks and more or less mafia, including within the state apparatus. it is this anarchy in looting that is bothering the rapporteur. he prefers legal plunder. the proof is that he is asking the european states to clean up, to put things in order, the very states you are defending here, when you know full well that they are the main supporters, even the organizers, of the widespread looting - both legal and illegal - of the poor countries. these are the states that set up or support local dictators, that supply arms, that subsidize predatory corporations. in the face of such hypocrisy and cynicism, we prefer to abstain.
in writing. - as so often in this house, the resolution points to situations that are humanly intolerable. yes, world hunger is an unbearable scandal. but as usual, the report does not offer any real solution. worse still, he makes this catastrophic observation only to advocate greater free markets. this means that, in the present context, the economic and financial power of the capitalist enterprises of the rich countries will continue to crush these countries, to phagocytise their agriculture, to orient it according to the needs of the markets of the rich countries, to control all the production and distribution circuits, etc. what the report calls fair international trade does not exist. it is a hollow word designed to suggest that this can reduce poverty drastically. we do not, of course, share in such a verbal masquerade on such a dramatic subject.
in writing. - the resolution recalls the dramatic conditions in which more than 307 million people are living on less than a dollar a day. this means that 900 people die of hunger every hour in the world. despite several fair proposals, such as the cancellation of the debt of the least developed countries (ldcs) which i fully support, i cannot vote in favour of this resolution. the resolution considers that the ldcs have not been able to carry out the structural economic reforms which are essential for these countries to be removed from this category. it is a clear contradiction: it is precisely because these countries of the south, dominated by the imperialist countries of the north, have no other choice but to submit to the policies of structural adjustment and debt repayment that they are now sinking into poverty. the resolution repeatedly praises the imf, world bank and market law guidelines for lifting ldcs out of poverty. the european union is not a mere institution, but a political one.
mr president, commissioner, a number of us were actually in porto alegre. what we saw there were thousands of citizens, trade unionists, representatives of non-governmental organizations, women's movements, debating and making analyses and proposals to change globalization, its rules, its institutions. from this point of view, porto alegre iii is no longer simply the anti-davos rally of porto alegre i. they are citizens who are protesting, who deny the inevitability of a globalisation that is destined to always enrich the richest, to leave the poorest on the sidelines, to destroy the environment; they reject a globalisation whose institutions and rules are strong and uncompromising in defending the economic and commercial interests of the powerful and their companies, but weak when it comes to defending social rights, defending the kyoto protocol or fighting tax havens. the objection is therefore highly legitimate in the light of the principles and values of the european union; it is above all a desire to try to impose a globalization of solidarity, a responsible globalization. in this respect, commissioner, i do not think that we can say that we are choosing between growth and justice, in which case you can of course say that the commission does not refer to both back to back. i think it's more about choosing between growth for profit and justice, between growth for speculative bubbles, the enron economy, on the one hand, and growth for more redistributive growth, for social inclusion, an economy that serves people, on the other. it is a choice between the commodification of all activities, natural resources, genes, and, on the other hand, the idea of universal access to global public goods, water, health, medicine, energy, education and public services. these concerns of porto alegre, to which must be added the abolition of debt, the reform of international institutions, the peaceful settlement of conflicts, are indeed, in principle, concerns which the european union is keen to promote on the international scene. so we have to look at this movement as a springboard, because just as you can't change a society at the national level without relying on social movements, you can't change globalization without relying on this global civil society. it is a great hope because it does not advocate withdrawal into oneself, one's nation, one's ethnic group, one's religious group, but on the contrary, the establishment of new rules on a global scale. it's a hope. we must also be able to meet the challenge that this movement poses to the european union. i will give three examples. first, europe is often expected to provide the largest amount of official development assistance (55% of the world). that is true, but at the same time our agricultural subsidies are ruining the agriculture of the southern countries and, in particular, the small farmers. what are we going to do to change this, to promote food security and self-sufficiency? secondly, the arrival of mr lula to power in brazil raises great hopes but the imf imposes an annual budget surplus of 3.75%. what are we going to do to loosen this imf grip on mr. lula? the imf is us, too. in fact, we have more votes than the americans. thirdly, on public services, there is a very strong challenge to the privatizations imposed by the imf in developing countries. and today, through the wto and the gats, these countries are sorry to see that we ourselves, the european union, are calling for the liberalization of water, postal services and energy in their countries. will you, commissioner, in order to respond to this global civil society and to the hopes of the countries of the south, change the demands of the european union so that in cancún we can say that europe is really on the side of those who want another globalisation?
- mr president, commissioner, i am pleased to see that you are putting porto alegre and davos on the same page. the greens, like harlem désir and a few others, who are the originators of the porto alegre parliamentary forum, are delighted to hear that alter-globalization is beginning to resonate with you. i believe that president lula has indeed chosen the right approach, because he has come first to porto alegre to present what he was going to defend in davos, namely the reconstruction of a more just economic order. it seems to me that this democratic, civic and political approach is what should be done: the debate must first be held with civil society, before going to meet the decision-makers of the globalised economy. market capitalism cannot continue to be the dominant form of politics. i would remind you - even if it is a sophistication - that democracy and politics normally take precedence over the economic. it is essential to prove this, and this would also prevent a pre-emptive war like the one proposed by the bush administration, which is largely subordinated to multinational companies which need oil much more than ideas. the last thing: these same multinationals are desperate to reclaim sustainable development and the common goods of humanity, water, air and energy. it seems to me that in cancun you will have to help us, commissioner, to defend our idea of globalisation. it is natural that we should have questions about the current gats negotiations, because they are rather dangerous, and it is natural that the southern states should know that we stand in solidarity with them on the right of everyone to food and clean water and clean air.
- mr president, i am surprised and saddened that this matter is being brought up again. in november 2001, developing countries welcomed the doha declaration, which allowed them to use compulsory licensing for public health reasons. the only downside is that countries without production capacity have to have the medicines they need manufactured in another country and a company can only manufacture a medicine if 51% of its production is destined for the domestic market. this problem in paragraph 6 was to be resolved by the end of 2002. he still isn't. meanwhile, the us pharmaceutical companies, the main donors to the bush campaign, have returned to the brink. the proposals of the united states and the european union, each more restrictive than the other, have led to failure. today the trips council proposes to return to the previous formula, which provided for the use of compulsory licences in case of emergency, a solution which had proved inapplicable and which led to the doha declaration. the objective of paragraph 6 must be to ensure that countries which do not have production capacity make effective use of compulsory licences. on the contrary, some proposals create a discrimination between first-class countries with production capacity and second-class countries without production capacity, which are in fact the poorest countries. the former will be able to use compulsory licences to manufacture any medicine that responds to a public health problem that they themselves have identified, while the latter will have to prove that they are experiencing a national emergency. while in theory all countries can use compulsory licensing, in practice the poorest countries will have to fight to have their emergency declared, licensed and manufactured. this proposal is unacceptable and i ask you, mr lamy, to propose a solution which is really beneficial to the developing countries so that health comes before profit, as you yourself have so well said.
- mr president, commissioner, this debate reminds us of the ideals of peace and solidarity on which the european union was founded, solidarity within its own community but also towards the peoples living in the least developed countries. it is in this spirit that the union took the initiative in the face of the us blockade to allow the import and use of generic medicines or low-cost medicines for disadvantaged populations. as the rapporteur in parliament on the directives on medicinal products - directives relating, among other things, to the marketing authorizations for medicinal products within the community - i know that it is important to strike a proper balance between research and generics, between data protection and the price of the medicinal product, between innovation and authorized copying. however, i do not want to return to these issues in this debate and philosophize about the question raised by some countries: is the right to health superior to the right to patents? in some circumstances, the answer to this question is simple: do we have the right to let human beings decay? do we have the right to let a population die that could be cured? that would be not helping someone in distress. in accordance with the principle of equal access to medicines and therefore to health for all, i encourage the union to use all its strength to promote these authorizations, while ensuring that they are not granted without special supervision and without full transparency. the role of arbitrator for the who seems to be a good one, for three main reasons which i would like to develop. firstly, effective measures must be taken to prevent parallel imports of generic medicines to developing countries within the european union. without controls, the people we want to help would be deprived of the products that are intended for them. in addition, these parallel imports would completely destabilise the quality health system we want to develop in the european union. to ensure these controls, the competent authority will have to establish a permanent register of generic medicines for developing countries. i hope that this list will evolve as new diseases emerge, so that the distribution and quality control systems of products can be more efficient. as regards the quality of these products, we know that generic medicines are not discounted products. no, it's the opposite. we know that they're as effective as other drugs, but we also know that their availability could be just one facet of curing or fighting the epidemics that we want to stop by providing access to these drugs. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development. and for all these reasons, i believe that the who could be the indispensable guarantor of action to promote access to medicines for all.
mr president, when the united states was faced with the risk of an anthrax attack and needed to have access to sufficient numbers of treatments at low cost, it decided on its own initiative to impose this on the pharmaceutical laboratory concerned and, failing that, to resort to compulsory licensing if it did not yield and accept to supply the drugs at a lower price. i remind you that at that time no one asked the united states of america to go first to the world health organization, to check whether anthrax was on a list of diseases considered acceptable in this case, and to negotiate the conditions under which a generic medicine could possibly be produced. so why ask some developing countries today? i believe, and this is the second point, that mr clegg was right to quote the doha declaration, and my colleagues were right to point out that a commitment had been made and that this commitment, which must be respected, was that nothing in the interpretation of intellectual property rights agreements should prevent developing countries, wto member countries, whatever they are, whether they have production capacity or not, from meeting public health needs, and that therefore these countries alone should be judges of the circumstances in which they may need to resort either to compulsory licences for those who can produce, or to parallel imports, but legal because decided by the state, for those who cannot produce. mr rod and mr wijkman were therefore right, as were other colleagues, such as mr van den berg, to say that conditions were going to be imposed on these poorer countries which do not exist for the industrialized countries, nor for the other developing countries with production capacity. i believe that the problem now is to find an effective and simple solution, without involving the countries concerned in lengthy and costly procedures and negotiations which would ultimately cost the lives of millions of patients for lack of access to care. mr lamy, as we unfortunately saw in the speech by one of our colleagues, mr tannock, who is more concerned about the possible loss of profits of certain industries than the fate of the sick, you are under pressure, including from european industries. don 't give in to these pressures ! be the voice of the people of europe who want us to help the sick in the third world.
in writing. - the vast majority of countries most affected by aids, malaria and tuberculosis are not able to produce the necessary treatments themselves. 42 million people worldwide are infected with aids. only 36,000 people are being treated in africa. every day, 40,000 people die from infectious diseases. the situation is therefore serious and urgent. in the face of this, on 20 december the nordic countries gave in to the dictates of the united states, which, in order to protect its pharmaceutical industry, blocked the agreement on generic medicines. the european union, however concerned about its image, has accepted a step backwards from the doha acquis, by presenting very restrictive definitions of the diseases in question and the countries concerned and by allowing the wto to exercise a de facto right of control over the conduct of states in this field. hundreds of thousands of lives are at stake. the european commission has chosen the profits of the pharmaceutical industry over life. with my group, i join the many ngos who are calling for public health issues to be taken out of the remit of the wto.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to make three comments on these agricultural negotiations which are being held in the framework of the wto, without prejudging their outcome. first, these negotiations take place against a background of divergent developments between the united states and the european union in agricultural matters. while the united states, seeing the negative effects of the fair act on its agriculture, has replaced it with an ambitious farm bill that increases its financial support for the sector by 70%, the european union is capping its agricultural spending, is engaged in a decoupling policy, at the same time as the united states is abandoning it, and is reluctant to apply the community preference, as was seen in the case of the black sea cereals. this divergence reflects, of course, political wills of varying intensity. the united states wants to keep agriculture strong. it is a strategic priority for them to maintain control of what they call the food weapon, and they are putting resources into it. europeans are divided on this issue, as elsewhere. they are divided on the very question of whether a public agricultural policy is appropriate. they are divided on the means it should have. in any case, the agricultural offer made by the united states in the doha framework preserves very strong public support for their agriculture. it would therefore be paradoxical and unacceptable that at the end of the year european agriculture should be left alone and disarmed. second point. with regard to the cairns group, it is essential that we do not allow non-developing countries, which have been constantly trying since the beginning of the uruguay round to destroy all european agricultural policy by any means possible, to turn the developing countries into real human shields to hide this objective, even though the european union is the world's largest importer of agricultural products from the developing countries, absorbs two thirds of african agricultural exports and is the only one to have established a system of non-reciprocal preferences under the lomé and cotonou agreements. let's not get carried away. third and final point. it is essential that any agreement be made conditional on the effective and not merely formal consideration of non-commercial concerns which we regard as fundamental social issues. the requirement of traceability, the refusal of social dumping, respect for the environment or the sanctioned protection of applications of origin must not be treated, mr president, as secondary concerns which could be postponed. these issues must be at the heart of the negotiations. i hope you will take care of that, commissioner.
- mr president, commissioner, agriculture will be one of the most sensitive topics in cancún, because, after all, it represents the economic and social logic of the market, such as the countries of the south can only dream of. the european union, through your mandate, has a great responsibility in this area because it must be regarded, it seems to me, by the countries of the south as the best ally. this means ensuring that the fundamental right of everyone to food is not permanently sacrificed to the god of commerce and financial transactions. after all, agriculture is, as we said earlier, a feature of the global public good. it is about food security for the countries of the south, the quality of food, water and soil, the recognition of regional products, the maintenance of landscapes and the sustainable development of rural areas. this is true in the south as well as in the north. as you have just said, your mandate must show that we are not selfish and that a number of export subsidies must be stopped, which are also ruining the small farmers of the european union. the right of peoples and countries to feed themselves with local and healthy products must enable them to take protectionist measures when necessary. if this is your safeguard clause, then it must be linked to fair trade and in this respect it will be a good complement to the 'everything but arms' initiative.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the new round of wto negotiations is undergoing two changes, which are causing anxiety. both mutations involve the atmosphere and the object. the change in atmosphere is firstly the strong pressure exerted on europe by the american representatives. apart from you, commissioner, who was almost a doctor honoris causa of the bush administration, european partners like france and ireland have been treated by robert zoellick as two-hundred-year-old colonialists, all against the backdrop of old europe, when it is not a monkey chasing cheese. and we know that your partner, robert zoellick, signed an open letter from wolfowitz in january '98 calling for war against iraq, which means you're negotiating with a hawk! but you know him well, you might know if he's a real one. change of subject too. until now, we've been negotiating on inanimate matter. now, with agriculture, we are negotiating on quality, the environment, welfare, animals, so cultural! the current cycle is no longer about possessions, but about knowledge, mind, being. hence the fear of nothingness, and the students in louvain told you so. with its model, its aocs, its landscapes, its agriculture, it is also an agricultural exception. that is why it is so distressing that you do not defend this agricultural exception, which has already come to us from mesopotamia, and is not new. anxiety, then, and political first. we fear that cancun will be a tropical munich. and there are precedents: 2001, the mysterious banana deal, chiquita going bankrupt like enron; there's the non-remission of the oil addiction even after the opening to the east and the mad cow. there is above all mr fischler's proposal in july 2002, confirmed in january 2003, with the amputation of subsidies, while the united states, meanwhile, since may 2002, has proposed to pay 190 billion over ten years, but the rule of minimum would keep all this in the green box. and also anxiety about the opposite, because if by 2020 there are two billion more mouths to feed, is it reasonable to destroy our agricultural machinery and our knowledge? hence, in the end, my quasi-ontological anxiety. we are on board, commissioner, the shuttle that is already showing cracks like the shuttle columbia. we are talking about trade, about a global free trade area, when we are told that there is a shortage of drinking water, that two billion people on earth lack electricity or medicine! i wonder if the wto is not, like the european union, off the subject.
mr. salafranca, of course the president will send the messages you mentioned. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc) and the situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc).
- the next item is the report (a5-0009/2003) by mr santini, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the right of citizens of the union and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states (com (2001) 257 - c5-0336/2001 - 2001/0111 (cod)).
commission. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur once again for his excellent report and confirm that the commission will be able to incorporate the vast majority of the proposed amendments into our amended proposal, which we will present shortly. let me turn to the two controversial issues during this debate. first of all, concerning article 2 and the concept of family, one has to recognise that harmonising the conditions of residence for european union citizens must not result in our imposing modifications on member state legislation defining family status. i understand this debate and the difficulty of, on the one hand, ensuring compatibility with article 13 of the treaty, which is the legal basis for combating discrimination, including discrimination against unmarried couples or same sex couples when, on the other hand, the treaty excludes family law from the scope of competences of the european union. in this very sensitive field, the community must respect the developments introduced in member state legislation and must be flexible in this. there is no universal legal solution for this kind of de facto partnership or for registered partnerships or same sex marriages. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that we should not exaggerate the extent of the practical difficulties that unmarried couples or same-sex couples encounter in exercising the right of residence. in fact, when the two people are citizens of the european union, they both enjoy the right of residence by virtue of article 18 of the treaty, independently of the nature of their relationship. however, i recognise that the problem arises when one of them is a third-country national. for the time being, the commission's proposal is to define marriage with reference to the term 'spouse', and we do not seek to define this term. in fact, at present, the legislation of only two member states recognises union between persons of the same sex as marriage. under the case law of the court of justice, the term 'marriage' designates a union between persons of the opposite sex. the commission prefers, at the present stage, to follow the case law of the court of justice, and to use a formula that allows progressive interpretation of this concept on the basis of future developments in the legislation of member states. as regards unmarried partners, including registered partners, the commission also considers that the recognition of these situations will have to be made by reference to the host member state legislation. i understand the argument of mutual recognition, but one has to be very careful when using it. the recognition for the purpose of residence of unmarried partners on the basis of the legislation of member states of origin could pose problems to those member states whose family legislation does not recognise these possibilities. in addition, the principle of non-discrimination requires that the host member state treat unmarried couples of other member states in the same way as its own nationals. i believe therefore that everyone will agree, particularly in this field, that we should not create reverse discrimination. that would be the actual outcome of such a proposal. i will follow your deliberations tomorrow and the negotiations with council very closely. i am sure that all of you are aware of the difficulty of this debate and the different approaches of the member states. the rapporteur has suggested an amendment to article 21 concerning equal treatment which aims to exclude inactive people from social assistance during the first six months rather, than the first four years of residence, until they acquire permanent rights of residence, as provided for in the commission's proposals. i am aware that the commission's text needs to be adapted in the light of the recent judgment of the court of justice in this field, which stated that any citizen residing legally in another member state must enjoy equal treatment with its nationals in matters of social welfare. however, despite the fact that mr santini's amendment goes in the right direction, it is not possible to accept it in its current formulation as it is not completely in accordance with the judgment of the court of justice to which i have just referred. the commission considers it preferable to reconsider the proposal and to better scrutinise the content of the court of justice judgment. we will bring forward an amended proposal as soon as possible.
commission. – madam president, mrs ludford is of course right, but her remark raises a second problem, which is that of the legislation of the host country discriminating against unregistered couples. one has to recognise that partners who do not lose the privileges they have in the country of origin, will enjoy a privilege which the citizens of the host state do not have. that is the heart of the issue. i respect your opinion, mrs ludford, and i look forward to the discussion with the council under the co-decision and qualified majority voting procedures, with which you are much more familiar than i am.
- thank you, chief. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon. the following shall be considered as a written declaration:
- the next item is the report (a5-0010/2003) by mrs terrón i cusí, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the commission proposal for a council directive on the conditions of entry and residence of thirdcountry nationals for the purpose of employment or selfemployment (com (2001) 386 - c5-0447/2001 - 2001/0154 (cns)).
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal under discussion today aims to establish a harmonized legal framework for the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals. it is clear that the european union is still very lukewarm on this issue. we can only deplore the hypocrisy of european policies. while all countries see development aid as a means of combating illegal immigration, cooperation budgets are being reduced, and brains are being smuggled out of the country without any training being provided. we do not hesitate to select the right immigrants, those who serve our interests, and for the rest we use the readmission clauses of the cooperation agreements to better expel those undocumented people who are already rooted in their social and professional life and are fully involved in the construction of europe. the economic and demographic needs of the member states are met by the exploitation of controlled immigration, which is primarily used to overcome the lack of labour and to compensate for the demographic imbalance, which can be exploited and managed at will, without concern for the future of these people, their protection, or even the respect of their fundamental rights: the right to health, education and housing. yes, mrs. terrón and cusí are right. the question of immigration must be part of a long-term, global vision of the union's community policy. in this context, it is necessary to address issues relating to the management of flows, including visa policy, essential policy, family integration policy, in particular the rights linked to european citizenship, the new definition of development aid involving genuine cooperation. although one of the conclusions of tampere is to ensure fair treatment of third country nationals, this is far from the case when we look more closely at the conditions of entry and residence, but also at the rights of citizens, in particular the freedom of movement, the right to live with one's family or the rights which should be linked to residence and not to nationality. if european legislation makes workers from third countries cheap labour, a kind of cannon fodder for precarious work, the european union will lose all the credibility that its anti-discrimination programmes have taken years to build, programmes that its ideals of justice and freedom require it to defend. everyone knows that the europe of citizens cannot be built on discrimination which is the basis of injustice, exclusion and racialism. it is therefore our responsibility to work towards a community and humanist immigration policy, respectful of fundamental rights and reaffirming that immigration is an opportunity for europe.
mr president, the proposal for a directive under consideration today is aimed at harmonizing the rules for granting work permits to third-country nationals at european level. it poses a first major problem: what exactly is it for? the explanatory statement gives three reasons. firstly, the current rules on the admission of thirdcountry workers would differ from one member state to another. but what 's the difficulty ? on the contrary, it is good and in line with subsidiarity that each state can adapt the rules for the acceptance of foreign workers to the needs of its society and its labour market. the second reason given in the explanatory statement is that applicants and employers would be confronted with national administrative procedures which are sometimes - we are told - very complex. but again, this is a problem for the member states and the community institutions have no business getting involved. the third reason is that the regulation of immigration of workers from third countries would be a cornerstone of the general immigration policy. this proves nothing, because the amsterdam treaty has not communitized immigration policy in general. moreover, the cornerstone, in my view, mr commissioner, would be the fight against illegal immigration rather than the granting of work permits. in the end, this community harmonization of work permits is not justified. it would only serve to open up immigration policy a little more when we already have too many unemployed. for example, i will quote the astonishing provision in article 29 (4) of the proposal which provides that a member state's refusal to grant a work permit to a third country national should contain - and i quote - 'a justification based on objective and verifiable criteria'. i believe that the granting of a work permit to a third-country national is a royal right and that the states should not be prevented from doing so, especially in the present economic situation, where they need to safeguard their essential interests. the proposal for a directive would also lay the foundations for even greater centralisation in the future. the committee on civil liberties of this house has understood this so well that it is now entering the breach by proposing to remove other powers from the states, for example the right to suspend the issuing of licences for reasons connected with the lack of reception capacity. we can see where all this would lead if this directive were adopted. but it is so blatantly violating the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality which we are being told every day that i hope someone in the council will be able to stop it.
commission. – mr president, first of all concerning the legal bases – the issue raised by mr pirker – our assessment is that article 63(3) of the treaty on conditions for entry and residence is the correct legal basis for this proposal for a directive that deals with common definitions, criteria and procedures regarding the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment. i recognise this is a difficult debate. to be frank, mr nassauer and i have been discussing these issues for a very long time, and we all know that there is no magic solution to this very complex problem of immigration. i accept the criticisms, i can even admit that i can be wrong. however, what i find difficult to accept is being criticised for things that i have never said and that are not written in my proposal. i have never said that there is a right to immigration. there is no right to immigration. i will repeat it hundreds of times: there is a right to asylum, but there is no right to immigration. immigration is only a possibility. our proposal states that very clearly. the decision on admission is exclusively that of the government of each member state or even of the regional or local authorities of the member states - brussels does not decide on one single entry. i recognise that the link between migration and unemployment is very complex. evidence shows that migrants might affect and disrupt the internal labour market. the first victims of new waves of migrants, as far as the functioning of our member states' labour market is concerned, are previous waves of migrants, because there is direct competition between newcomers and the earlier migrants. that is a source of concern, because the existing migrants will be a burden for the social welfare state. is there a direct link between the arrival of migrants and the re-entry into the labour market of our own european citizens? there the connection is much more complex, because in certain cases the difficulty of re-entering the labour market is more connected with the specific characteristics of the welfare state and social security systems that benefit our own citizens. it is unfair to say that migration policies are the reason why european union citizens have difficulty re-entering the labour market. in fact, it is the lack of reform of the welfare state that is responsible for the difficulty of encouraging people to re-enter the labour market. of course, that lack of reform varies from one member state to another. i do not want to harmonise anything with regard to reform of the welfare state. as far as the report is concerned, the commission welcomes and fully agrees with amendments 6, 11, 8 and 12, but we cannot make any commitment today on those amendments concerning rules on intra-corporate transfers and contractual service suppliers. those rules are very interesting and we will bear them in mind. however, they are closely linked to international trade issues and we have to wait for the ongoing world trade organisation negotiations to see what the impact of those negotiations will be on migration policy, above all as far as services are concerned. i would urge you to keep the reference to the eures system before being able to recruit third-country workers, because keeping that system will guarantee the principle of preference for the european labour market. that is a fundamental principle in our proposal. i look forward to seeing parliament's amendments and thank you for this very interesting and stimulating debate.
in writing. - i commend the quality of the work of mrs terrón i cusí. the commission's proposal for a directive on the entry and residence of thirdcountry nationals again focused on legal and illegal immigration and put employment as a prerequisite for granting stable status. i welcome the improvement made by the committee on civil liberties to the proposal for a directive, but i would also like to stress that the rapporteur has shown great lucidity and has approached the subject without demagogy. i note some interesting proposals and progress, including more transparency, simplification of procedures and greater consideration of the interests of third countries. the rapporteur generally favours improving the rights of holders of residence permits for workers and stresses the need for all foreigners to have equal access to education, training and housing assistance. i regret that these proposals were not properly quantified and that the report did not place more emphasis on access to citizenship. let us do everything we can to guarantee the principle of free movement, to increase the chances of workers finding employment and enriching their professional experience, to promote mobility with a view to a closer union between peoples. (abbreviated written declaration pursuant to article 120 (7) of the regulation)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the member states, while we approve of the general objective of the marset-campos report, which is to strengthen ties with belarus, as indeed we should do with russia, we cannot approve of the conditions it puts there, nor of the arrangements it intends to favour. we are indeed in the process of generalizing iraqi jurisprudence, if i may say so. in other words, we claim to choose regimes and not to recognize states. that's a logic that can go far. it is not for us to judge governments. the lukashenko regime may not meet the criteria of our democracies, which are far from perfect and are even becoming increasingly empty of any content as national sovereignty is being abandoned. however, my visit to minsk as part of a mission from this parliament has shown me that democracy is making real progress and that pluralism is not a vain word and, above all, that president lukashenko has a certain legitimacy. this is because after the collapse of the soviet regime, it replaced a succession of short-lived governments that angered the belarusian people by massively privatising even essential public services, which were then controlled by western firms, and above all by attempting to detach belarus from russia, something the belarusian people would not consent to. nor is it our job, as the report recommends, to encourage the opposition or any political party, or to use ngos as instruments for subversive operations. nor is it up to us to choose this or that economic model for this country. there are very dangerous ways, ladies and gentlemen, because the international community cannot live in peace if one or more states, because they are rich and powerful, arrogate to themselves the right to overthrow governments that they do not like and to appoint governments in their place. there is no peace in these conditions. let us therefore respect the states as they are and the peoples as they are. belarus has been a part of europe for centuries. it will be an important partner for our countries in any case and, of course, first and foremost for france.
in writing. - for any normal person, freedom of movement means that any individual who is a citizen of a country of the union, or who comes from outside and once inside the european union, can move and reside as he wishes. but that would be too easy for generations of self-proclaimed 'fathers of europe'. the endless bargaining between states, united only by the desire to make the free movement of capital possible, has resulted in such a jumble of different visa regulations that it has become an embarrassment even for the conduct of business. spain was concerned, not from the human rights point of view, but because of the "precious loss of time and serious damage to seafarers, shipping companies and airlines due to frequently missed flights or air connections". hence some measures to ease the visa requirements for certain categories. we did not vote against this report because the new rules may avoid some of the inconvenience and even humiliation that seafarers have to endure today. but these ridiculous bargains, these measures taken at the expense of the people, show clearly the gap between the so-called desire to build a europe united by the people and the reality of a europe which remains fragmented, surrounded by barbed wire and incapable of ensuring genuine freedom of movement for people within it.
in writing. - the proposal for a directive on the right of citizens of the union and their families to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states is gradually changing the meaning of this right in all its chapters. in the treaty it means that the citizens of each member state may a priori move or reside in the territory of the others, but it does not mean that the states of residence do not have a right of control or a right to a reasoned refusal. the directive proposed by the commission is based on the case law of the court of justice, but goes beyond it, and the necessary clarifications have not been introduced into the treaty after a democratic debate. this text would lead to the member states being disarmed and losing a little more control over their territory, which we reject. even the french government, although usually lenient towards the community institutions, has protested in particular against the abolition of the right to expel a community national after a permanent residence of four years, provided for in the directive. in these circumstances, we voted against this text.
in writing. - the right of free movement within the territory of the member states was decided in principle when the treaty of rome was signed in 1957 and was to enter into force at the same time. the mere fact that 45 years later resolutions are still needed to make this right effective is really a sign that for the decision-makers of european unity, only the free movement of capital and goods counts, and not the right of men. and even in this proposal for a directive, this right is partial and carefully framed. for example, it will be up to the host member state to decide whether or not to grant social assistance benefits or student grants. but we are constantly being told about european citizenship! we have nevertheless voted in favour of this report because its recommendations are likely to significantly improve the directive currently being prepared on the right of citizens to move and reside within the territory of the european union, particularly as regards the rights of spouses and children.
in writing. - the belarusian regime is certainly a dictatorship riddled with corruption and oppressing its people. but to suggest that a faster than expected move towards a market economy would be a hope for the people of this country is to ignore the dozens of poor countries around the world, from haiti to almost all of africa, which are indeed integrated into the market economy and yet sometimes live in even greater poverty under such infamous dictatorships. the european union has also been a major player in the development of the economy in the balkans, and has been a major player in the development of the economy in the balkans. the report also contrasts an undemocratic belarus with a russia presented as democratic. the most rabid lauders of regime change in russia are forced to acknowledge the deep corruption of the clans that rule the country, the rule of official or criminal mafias and the scandalous enrichment of a few by plunder amid the general impoverishment of the population, not to mention the horrors of the war in chechnya. in these circumstances, we cannot agree with this text.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the eu-chile association agreement sets out a particularly ambitious and strengthened cooperation. such an intensity of dialogue should of course be promoted with the greatest number of third countries to support economic development and to promote the ecological values and democratic clauses of the european union. in our opinion, this agreement of such a large scale was reached too quickly, particularly in view of the impact study launched on this occasion. we regret that the impact study has not really served as a backdrop for this association agreement. the european union's negotiations, which are very voluntary in terms of trade and, in our view, excessive in terms of liberalization, should now also be structured in a balanced way around human rights and the environment. after the dark pages of chile's history, all our attention must be focused on political rights, especially the fate of the mapuche indians. in the fisheries sector, the union's interests for chile must be balanced and only have meaning and a future in the context of sustainable development and management of fisheries resources. let us spare chilean fishermen the overexploitation of their resources which has devastated our own european seabed. and above all, let us spare chile the risk of being relegated to the role of a fishing counter, a substitute for our community ports. finally, we believe that the size of this agreement should have been the subject of a similar discussion beforehand. this agreement, which is intended to be a model for the 21st century, is being dealt with too quickly. while this agreement is interesting because it incorporates the human rights dimension and consultation of civil society, it would have deserved a larger debate on its possible impacts, positive as well as negative. we had submitted an oral question to that effect to allow for a debate on the agreement, but the proposal was not accepted. but far from being an obstacle to the conclusion of the agreement under consideration, these observations - we stress - are a condition for its relevance and its sustainability. the greens want this 21st century agreement to become the beacon of a new trade based on fair trade, respect for the environment and human rights. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, according to the commission, the new association agreement between chile and the european union would be, i quote, the most ambitious, innovative and comprehensive agreement ever negotiated with a non-candidate country. it is called a fourth generation agreement and it is even said that it should be the model for future association agreements with other latin american countries. these grand prospects, however, are more worrying than exciting. in the economic field, the agreement provides for the total abolition of customs borders, but contrary to what the free trade extremists claim, borders are not a barrier to trade. no, it's the opposite. they play a role comparable to that of locks in river navigation, allowing regulation between countries with different living standards. many of our industries have already suffered the cost of customs disarmament. the world trade organisation agreements, accepted by brussels, have thus forced them to relocate their production to withstand competition. the hastily conceived enlargement to the east will only aggravate this phenomenon. the fourth generation agreement extended to all of latin america will put millions more men and women out of work. as for our last farmers, those who have survived enlargement to the east are unlikely to survive the opening up to the west, since the agreement provides for almost total liberalization of agricultural imports within 10 years. in the political sphere, the creation of a euro-latin american transatlantic assembly is mentioned with a certain lyricism. so after building a bureaucratic superstate in brussels, after swallowing up eastern europe, which has just emerged from the soviet empire, the eurofederalists are still not satisfied. when and where will they stop? the european community is not only a political power, but also a political power. of course, there is a natural solidarity between our nations and those of latin america. however, just as we want a europe of free countries, not an anti-national and anti-social europe, we want the nations of europe to base their cooperation with the nations of latin america on the principle of national sovereignty and economic realism.
the commission (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mr izquierdo collado for the work he has done over a long period of time. i think it has served to develop the debates, sometimes passionate, i know, which have given rise to the white paper. we are talking about giving impetus to a transport policy, taking into account new elements, as has been said, in a clearer and more precise way, such as the aspect of combining growth and sustainable development, that is, the incorporation of quality of life and environmental protection as also essential factors in the design of our policies. in this sense, the almost 60 measures proposed for 2010 are aimed at rebalancing transport modes, which does not mean reducing road transport - let us be clear - or maritime transport, which are the two modes of transport that have proved to be the most competitive, but simply preventing, in the future, the further decline in the share of rail and inland waterway transport in northern europe, which are absolutely essential forms of transport and which should contribute in an essential way to absorbing the new transport demands, as well as the development of maritime transport. it is therefore a question of rebalancing the modes, of eliminating bottlenecks, of having a safe transport policy - safety is an essential point in the service of users - and also of dealing with the globalisation that is currently affecting many modes of transport, especially air and sea transport. the analysis we have presented in the white paper has been the subject of a great deal of debate, including on the part of industry and the sectors most affected. the council also. in this connection, many of the measures proposed in the white paper have already been presented by the commission to this parliament and to the council. some have even made important progress, such as galileo, accession to eurocontrol, the creation of the maritime and air safety agencies - and i will speak later about road safety, to which mr izquierdo collado referred - such as the initiatives on working time in the road transport sector or even the recent agreement in the council on the single european sky and the marco polo programme. the negotiations on the second railway package are at a very advanced stage, and this parliament made a strong statement just a couple of months ago. however, other important proposals are still in the preparation phase, such as the transeuropean networks. as you know, ladies and gentlemen, although this parliament had voted in favour of the partial reform proposed by the commission, the council preferred to postpone it and simply to proceed with a more general review. i'll see you then. in this connection, i hope that the van miert group, which envisages a comprehensive review of the transeuropean transport networks taking account of enlargement, that is to say a europe of 27 - because it includes the countries with which negotiations have either been completed or are well advanced - will be successful before the end of the greek presidency and that the document can therefore be presented during the italian presidency. so let this parliament also discuss it. i would like to say that we are also in the final phase of launching the infrastructure package, which will have three fundamental elements for the development of infrastructure: a pricing methodology - to which mr izquierdo collado referred a moment ago and which we discussed earlier in the discussion on the question of ecopoints in austria - as a preliminary step to a directive on pricing which will allow us to see how far the council and this parliament are prepared to go in this field and which will set out the forms, the methods and the limits. secondly, a system of incentives for public-private partnerships in the construction of infrastructure. we need to bring private capital into the development of new infrastructure to speed up the roll-out of this new infrastructure in a europe of 25 - and 27 soon. thirdly, a european toll system which will also be accompanied by compatibility, that is to say, interoperability, of the practical, technical systems which exist in the various countries of the european union, with the objective, in the medium term, of standardization, the establishment of a single system based on satellite control systems, that is to say, the galileo system. as far as road safety is concerned, i am pleased to note that the honourable members share our objective of reducing the number of road deaths by 50% by 2010. the commission has just adopted a proposal for a directive on safety in tunnels and we will shortly be presenting a comprehensive road safety action plan. in this area, important proposals will also be made in relation to the control of road transport in the determination of black spots on motorways. i hope that these new measures will help to achieve this objective and that they will be complemented by measures at national and local level, where there is a very important margin of subsidiarity. in the field of maritime safety, ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing it for several years, after the tragic accident of the erika, and we have been discussing it again quite recently after the prestige disaster. but, ladies and gentlemen, the commission can say that we have put forward a coherent package of measures which greatly enhance maritime safety in the european union, that what is needed is to put them into practice and that the measures which are missing will be put forward in the near future, some of them have already been put forward, such as the timetable for the departure of single-hull tankers and their replacement by double-hull tankers, the requirement for safer and more modern tankers for the transport of the most polluting hydrocarbons and that we will shortly be introducing issues such as criminal liability in cases of gross negligence. we must insist on the maximum ceiling for compensation funds in the event of pollution or on proposals to promote with the union states changes in the field of international maritime law, which is based on principles that are totally obsolete and belong to the 19th century and not to the 21st. as regards air transport, in 2003 we will focus our action on external relations, including the mandates for the renegotiation of the open skies agreements, which is an absolutely urgent matter, starting with the agreements with the united states. i have seen the proposals put forward by the rapporteur in general terms, but i shall speak more specifically on a number of points later. i think we share the same spirit. i hope that the approval by this parliament, with the amendments it deems appropriate in a report on the white paper, will help to speed up the measures under discussion, both in parliament and in the council, and that those still to come will clarify the possibilities, the margins, the limits and, above all, allow for an accelerated discussion with this parliament within this same mandate.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are not discussing a report on the transport of tomorrow. this is, in fact, one of the last escape routes after a generation of production and mobility that has self-suffocated. who would dare to speak of catastrophism or of the ill omen of an environmentalist charlatan about the state of our planet's environment, in the face of who studies which estimate that 800 000 deaths a year in europe are attributable to car exhaust fumes. the only thing left to do is to try to stem the current environmental crisis. what was an emergency in the fifteen is now an imperative in the twenty-five, and any transport policy which does not incorporate the sustainable development aspect will be lost in its own race. the precariousness of our way of life is forcing us to make a real revolution in the culture of transport. the awareness is late, but it has finally made it possible to decouple the increase in the volume of transport from economic growth. far from the traditions of the past, this new transport system will have to integrate environmental requirements into its studies from the outset, place the user at the heart of its definitions and associate him with ngos in all its reflections. increasing urbanisation must be accompanied by an optimisation of public transport. for each new project, priority should be given to opportunities for intermodality between existing or future networks. the new transport deal of 2010 must not be opposed on financial grounds. an ambitious community research and development programme must be implemented to combat harmful and noisy nuisances in the transport sector and to achieve the objectives of the kyoto protocol. the committee on the environment has in its report noted all the effects of these nuisances on human health. there are warning signs everywhere, but that is no reason to just proclaim that disaster is upon us and inevitable. we've gone from awareness to warning. now we must act. so far from giving up, madam commissioner, in the face of this announced ecological disaster, the union must make choices to change the course of transport and make all agreements and programmes, and god knows how many, subject to environmental criteria. otherwise, we're going straight for the wall, and with full knowledge of the facts. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission the honourable member is faced with one of the most complex issues in motor sport: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on competition are applied in a uniform manner. according to the information available to us, it appears that it was mr ecclestone, who represents the organisation responsible for promoting the formula 1 championship, who publicly stated that the ban on sponsorship by the tobacco industry in the european union before 2006 could lead to formula 1 races being moved outside the union. as regards the international automobile federation, the honourable member is certainly aware of the fia's statement on the sponsorship of motor sport by the tobacco industry and an international agreement for an effective ban in 2006. the fia explains how formula 1 races can be held in france and the uk even though these two countries have banned sponsorship by the tobacco industry. the commission also received a complaint concerning the exclusion of the belgian grand prix at spa-francorchamps from the 2003 championship calendar. the reason for this is the entry into force this year of the belgian law prohibiting advertising and sponsorship for tobacco products. according to mr ecclestone, it appears that the austrian grand prix at spielberg will suffer the same fate from 2004, the date on which a similar ban will come into force in austria. from the point of view of competition law, it is important that all parties involved in the complicated process of setting the formula 1 championship calendar stick to their respective roles and tasks. it appears that the decision to hold formula 1 races in one country rather than another is based on economic rather than legal considerations relating to motor sport. the system developed by the various stakeholders of formula 1 through the agreements submitted to the commission will continue to apply. as regards the specific case of spa-francorchamps, the commission is examining whether community competition law has been respected. the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to the advertising and sponsorship of tobacco products, which was the subject of a political agreement in the council in december 2002, provides for a ban, as from 31 july 2005, on sponsorship of events involving or taking place in more than one member state or having other cross-border effects, including, of course, formula 1 races. the directive takes account of the fact that the legislative provisions of the various member states on sponsorship linked to the promotion of tobacco products differ from one another, which could therefore lead to distortions of competition. the directive aims to eliminate these problems and to approximate the relevant provisions.
- thank you, commissioner, for your very clear answer to this question. we have raised this question, which we believe is important, because if it concerns the spa-francorchamps circuit today, it will of course concern others also affected by this tobacco directive. we are, in fact, personally very much in favour of the directive on the ban on tobacco advertising. we believe it is very important that health problems should be given priority over the problems raised by the ban on tobacco advertising and we are very concerned about the position of the international automobile federation in this respect. as you have pointed out, and as has already been discussed with commissioner byrne, he is busy looking into the possibility of extending the ban on tobacco advertising to the whole planet, that is to say, working with the who on this issue. of course, the current arrangements by the motoring associations are extremely worrying to those who are trying to limit the incentives to smoke, which we all know is extremely harmful to health. in addition, the provisions of the motoring associations will lead to distortions in employment, particularly in the field of sport, which is also extremely damaging.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the white paper on european transport policy for 2010 makes a clear statement, and i welcome it, that we must rebalance transport modes in favour of rail and inland waterway. it sets out priorities for this rebalancing: finding suitable tariffs, combating bottlenecks and environmental degradation, and promoting the role of users. but, in the logic of all the directives issued in this field, it is always the pursuit of liberalization in all transport sectors that is put forward, as if this were the only valid solution. the report by my colleague izquierdo collado brings a series of improvements to be supported in respect of the environment. it also made proposals for the harmonization of fuel taxation and transport pricing. on road safety, i agree with the proposal to set up a road safety agency. as i have always drawn attention to the crucial question of financing at the time of the rail interoperability directive, i fully agree with another proposal by mr collado, namely the creation of a european transport fund to guarantee the financing and credibility of the proposed policies. but as you understand, i cannot support his support for the liberalizations under way. we are getting directives on rail, air transport, technical services and shipping next week, all of which are aimed at liberalising these sectors. the commission's request to assess the consequences of liberalization, as mr collado is doing, must of course be supported. but i think we should also strengthen public services by modernising them. i believe that public services or services of general interest must be at the heart of the union's transport policy and must be incorporated as such in future treaties. i think that we really must commit ourselves to rebalancing transport in favour of rail, but we should still do much more on the question of the distortion of competition which remains strong, and we should in particular demand much more resolutely that the working time of road drivers be reduced, which is also a condition for greater safety. my group also believes that the report should be much more concerned with social issues. a number of amendments proposed by my group deal with the key issue of harmonizing social standards for all modes of transport from the top down. transport is also, of course, maritime transport and, at a time when the prestige disaster is continuing to challenge us, i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to my group's amendment which calls on the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal requiring polluters - oil companies, classification societies, ship owners and charterers - to pay in full for the damage caused by the disasters in which they are involved. i would also like to point out that the european parliament has called for the banning of flags of convenience and i hope that the commission will take swift action in this regard. for all these reasons, you will understand that my group will wait until it is able to take account of any progress made as a result of the adoption of the amendments before taking a definitive position on this report.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the question of transport in europe, which we are discussing in connection with the white paper entitled 'horizon 2010: the time for choices' and the report by our colleague mr collado on this white paper, is for me a perfect illustration of the gulf, if not the canyon, which exists in europe in this field as in many others, between needs and realities, the stated objectives and the means implemented to achieve them. all this because the logic of the 'any market', which was based on a 1992 white paper which gave rise to directives on competitiveness and liberalisation, has led to neglect of security, the environment, social and spatial planning. the foolish belief in performance, if not the perfection of liberalism, has created myopia about the future, devalued public action and public services, blamed those who believe in the need for long-term public investment and sectoralised accounts by excluding the general interest and the induced effects, positive or negative, of short-term decisions. the rapporteur himself has denounced it very strongly and i thank him for that. i support him, of course, when he says that transport is a strategic sector for spatial planning and for economic and social cohesion, and when he talks about the serious environmental consequences. he says that sustainable development must be the foundation of european transport policy, and i agree with him. he is calling for a comprehensive transport management, and i agree. okay, of course, also with his security concerns and social demands. i therefore support many of his demands, but i am very much afraid that at the time of the vote the necessary shock will not be sufficient to bring about a profound change in policy on this matter. our rapporteur speaks of the need for a better balance between the modes of transport, which is good, but it is not enough, far from it. as i said in the debate on fp6 there is a need for more research in this area. above all, public investment must be reoriented very quickly and public borrowing, large public borrowing, must be used to achieve this. 2010, it's seven years away and it's very close. if europe does not want to limit itself to a catalogue of good intentions, it must, starting today, in 2003, reorient all its investments and all its choices in this field by giving itself new legislative and financial means to meet the challenges.
- mr president, commissioner, i think there are a few areas in which the european union must take action. i would like to mention, although it has nothing to do with the white paper, training, because it is knowledge that will determine performance; research, because innovation will be a factor in our growth; and transport, because the quality of transport will determine the sustainability of our development. that's why he needs the means. he needs money. the idea of a european fund is therefore not a bad one. i always remember what jacques delors said: we need a large european loan for large projects. of course, it's out of fashion now. it's a little old-fashioned, but economics is not a science. sometimes old ideas come back, and just because mr. keynes has fallen back in his mind, it doesn't mean the idea is bad. i would like to draw your attention to three other aspects, in addition to this financial aspect. firstly, europe is expanding eastwards, and so our territory tends to become unbalanced. i think the commission will have to keep an eye on all the extreme points of europe, which has a complicated geography, made up of islands, mountains and peninsulas, and we must be careful that enlargement does not push europe too far eastwards. i'm speaking for the western atlantic, but i'm sure you're sensitive to that. the second aspect is that europe has many ports, many coasts, many coastlines. so we must put the package - no pun intended - on sea cabotage. we could probably do more. this means that we must continue in the direction you have taken, which i believe is the right one, with regard to maritime safety. the third aspect is our regions. on the transport front, we must make progress with our regions. regional policy may include tripartite agreements in the future and, in this respect, transport is a good subject for countries, regions and europe. i believe that through this white paper and this task, the commission has a good opportunity to build all these links.
- madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, among its main objectives, the white paper proposes to give priority to sustainable development, to relaunch maritime and rail transport, to promote intermodality, to anticipate the impact of flows generated by enlargement and to improve the accessibility of peripheral regions. i fully support the modal rebalancing, which will have to be translated into a series of measures combining charging, the revitalization of alternative modes of transport to road and targeted investments in the transeuropean network. however, we must not forget that, under the maastricht treaty, transport policies must be put at the service of cohesion and that, as such, the transeuropean transport network must be an instrument of economic, social and territorial cohesion in the union. extremely precise analyses must be carried out on the service to peripheral regions, especially islands and the outermost regions, with, in particular, the formulation of a public service obligation linked to the need to ensure the principle of territorial continuity and the search for the best possible operating conditions. there is still a real lack of clarity on the question of the role of transport in the regional development of the periphery and, a fortiori, the outermost regions, even though the treaties recognize the need for treatments which may derogate from the common rules of transport markets. the particularly worrying situation of air services in the french overseas departments following the disappearance of air lib, the airline which was partly specialised in these flights, perfectly illustrates the current shortcomings i have just mentioned. it also illustrates the urgency of a concerted vision of the future development of the peripheries, in which transport regulation policy would join that of regional development. i am not sure that the white paper, which deals with this issue in particular in the light of a possible relaxation of the community framework for regional aid for transport services, in particular for links with peripheral regions and small islands, has fully taken account of this crucial issue for the european populations concerned.
(fi) mr president, mrs de palacio, it is good that the commission is taking the problems of european transport seriously. in particular, halving road deaths is an objective that deserves our full support. no man dies on the road for a good cause. the traffic congestion in central europe is also a major problem, while in the peripheral regions there is a concern about securing connections to the european market. the white paper contains many good proposals, but unfortunately contains serious misjudgments. the commission wants to break the link between economic growth and transport growth. it's not possible, but we can stop the economic growth. by reducing the disadvantages of traffic, we can safely allow transport to grow. new vehicles emit up to 95% less emissions than vehicles manufactured before 1970. you can't see this if you look at it through a dark green lens. by eliminating vehicle registration taxes throughout europe and by reducing the tax on clean cars, we can dramatically improve the state of the environment. the second strange proposal is to freeze the market shares of the transport modes at the 1998 level. this is what one would expect from the old soviet politburo, but it is a further undermining of the commission's authority. it would be absurd to go out and force market shares towards an ivory tower. instead, a level playing field should be created for all modes of transport. let the market decide for itself what the natural rates of transport are. the third error concerns the harmonisation of labour and social legislation. it is only in the field of road safety that the harmonization of the maximum duration of transport is appropriate, and even then it is only possible after a careful consideration of the benefits and costs. if we make these three mistakes, we are further away from a dynamic europe. the soviet union collapsed into its own impossibility, but our great european project deserves better. our shaky economy needs treatment, and our self-inflicted sickness is certainly not a mere mental illness. unfortunately, the commissioner's medicines are, i dare say, like those from the bazaar. is it not time to stop talking about the european model and to look to the best to give us the recipe for success?
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if i may say so, it is indeed eeurope that is on the agenda this evening, and i shall deal in particular with the full deployment of third generation mobile communications. the debate was organised somewhat like the third, in disorder, commissioner, since we started with the van velzen report, which is rather complementary in that it deals with information which will be included in the third generation gsm, such as weather information or road conditions provided by the public sector. after all, this is not a very serious matter, since, moreover, the third generation of gsm is also about avoiding the digital divide, which my colleague paasilina will strongly denounce. so, all in all, it's quite normal that we can have this debate of a collective kind. it may be worth recalling that the barcelona council in march 2002 stated: 'technological convergence offers all businesses and citizens new opportunities to access the information society. digital television and third generation mobile communications will play a key role in widespread access to interactive services". however, this third generation sector seems to be in rather difficulty. perhaps, in order to avoid the digital divide and not break the continuity of eeurope, it is necessary to say that 3g services must be part of a global logic, but important issues of consumer health and environmental quality must also be added. in addition, lessons must be learned from the current gsm market so that the mistakes which may have been made in the past are not repeated. one of the crucial issues in the development of mobile telephony is the interoperability of terminals. in this respect, the commission recalls that progress was made in the development of 3g terminals in 2002. the first models are ready. they are also ready in china, i would point out, since we received the information last week. in addition, the existing 2g networks have been upgraded to 2.5g. there may still be some technical problems, but let's say it all works. as regards the market situation, the current availability of 3g services in europe is not clear. they are available in japan, but the operators are confident, and after all, since there are about fifty capable of offering these services, the problem of competition is solved, it can take place. as regards regulatory issues, the commission notes that the procedure for granting 3g licences has been initiated in all eu countries. this number of licences is sufficient. so there is no problem for the competitive environment. following consultations with stakeholders interested in the deployment of 3g mobile communications, a three-point consensus was identified. first, the phase of deployment of 3g services does not require any intervention at the legislative level, market forces must be allowed to play a role. secondly, 3g communications will have to become, in the long term, one of the service platforms offered by a universal information society. finally, public authorities must be involved in the deployment process by providing ongoing support. three factors are identified: a stable, harmonised and transparent regulatory environment, taking into account the interests of consumers; the proactive supporting role that the union can provide; and, thirdly, long-term initiatives, taking into account what has happened in the 3g communications sector, particularly in the run-up to enlargement. so we need to strengthen the coordination of all these choices. the commission foresees that no amendments will be necessary for the granting of licences and that the duration of licences will not be subject to changes in the short term. however, there is still a need for regulatory clarification on the sharing of network infrastructure. as rapporteur, i therefore believe that the commission has put the matter in the right economic context, but that a number of points should have been added. it is a costly technology and this technology can be competed with, for example, wifi, that is to say, today we are wondering whether 3g will integrate some of what computing does or whether it is the opposite, that computing will gradually replace what gsm does. after all, it is the market that will decide, but it is good to ask the question and to take the lead. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the 3g network is not used for commercial purposes. finally, we must protect the security of payments, otherwise the consumer will not trust us. i come now to the precautionary principle, which my colleagues on the right wanted to abolish. i want to talk about the health problems that can arise because they are being raised by several scientists today. it was asked, with a great deal of consensus, to respect, at least at european level, the demands of the world health organization. we are told that today it is, but we will have to evaluate it. finally, the installation of 3g relay antennas will have to be carried out in a manner which respects the environment and urban planning. member states shall ensure that the authorizations of town planning services are subject to a clear procedure and to public scrutiny. the third generation requires four to sixteen times as many antennas as the second generation. so the co-location or sharing of antennas, as recommended by the commission, is something extremely important. in conclusion, regulatory stability will allow for the harmonious development of this technology if the european union takes into account social and environmental parameters as well as economic parameters.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if i were to be humorous, i would say that the debate on this important matter is spread over two days, since we are now moving to 12 february. that said, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, public data is a particularly sensitive area, since it is public information, managed directly or indirectly by the public authorities. community legislation on transparency and accessibility of public information already provides a very comprehensive framework, but in some sectors some clarifications are needed to prevent any distortion of competition caused by any legislative deficiency. i congratulate the european commission on this proposal on the reuse and exploitation of public sector documents. however, i regret that there is a lack of clarity on certain points in the text. i am thinking, for example, of the documents in question, which in my view are not clearly and precisely defined. as i proposed to the committee responsible, the concept of a public document should be further defined. i am not talking about harmonization, but simply about an appropriate definition to enable all citizens to know exactly which public documents are considered to fall within the scope of the directive. it would also have been desirable to introduce a reference to the time limits for access to public documents. i am glad, however, that the proposals on the unilateral suspension of the production of information and on the conditions under which this suspension must be carried out, in particular the reasonable notice period, have been adopted. a sudden stop would be a risk for the operators concerned. i am thinking in particular of smes which would not have the technical and financial means to deal with such situations without being informed in good time. i therefore urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of mr van velzen's report, which has succeeded in supplementing the commission's basic proposal with a comprehensive report, intelligently negotiated between the various political groups to which we belong.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the president of the council and the president of the european commission for their lists of good intentions, which i am sure, and i am sincere, that they will do everything to implement. i shall concentrate on employment, on the objective of full employment, which i believe should be the first, if not the only, objective of european europe, all the other objectives being merely its consequences. this is true of gender equality, progress in social harmonization, the maintenance and development of public services, the implementation of sustainable development, etc. full employment requires that the stability pact be revised, relaxed and corrected, that the social partners be respected and listened to, that firms which lay off people purely for profit be punished, especially when they have received public subsidies, that the european council take out a large loan, that research efforts be increased. ladies and gentlemen, the old liberal recipes, despite what some may think, have failed. the creation of jobs is insufficient, the lisbon objectives are not being met and enlargement is likely to worsen the situation in the fifteen and in the ten new member states which will soon join us. so, yes, full employment must be the almost exclusive objective of the union. i believe that this is vital for our future, and that is why i wanted to reiterate it here this morning, with solemnity and force.
- mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, our debate on the preparations for the spring european council is taking place in a tense international context. president prodi mentioned this in anticipation of the debate we will have this afternoon on the situation in iraq. the geopolitical context in which this european council will take place will be present, not only in the minds of our member states, but also in very concrete terms in the economic data and forecasts. a climate of international tension is always harmful to the world economy and this is not the least of the outcomes expected by the terrorist organizations at the origin of these tensions. the council will assess the measures that have been implemented to achieve the lisbon objective of making the union the world's most dynamic knowledge-based economy by 2010. this will include assessing the efforts made by the member states and the european union in the fields of education, training and research and development. everyone knows that the results so far have fallen short of the lisbon expectations, but why should we be surprised when the governments of most of our countries have no choice but to remedy the carelessness and lack of foresight of their socialist predecessors, who, far from making the necessary efforts when growth was at its peak, squandered public resources, spreading them over the welfare programmes with no future? the brussels council will therefore be a useful opportunity for our countries to reconsider the lisbon objectives by adapting them to the economic and social reality of our public finances and placing them in the international context. i would like to conclude by encouraging president prodi for his initiative to present a plan for simplifying european legislation, which is no less than 90 000 pages long. this initiative is more than welcome to make life easier for the business world and thus to increase the competitiveness of the union. the plan aims to reduce the eu acquis to some 25 000 pages by 2005 and to simplify the language in draft legislation. i don't think anyone will complain.
mr president, i believe that what some of my colleagues have called wordplay and false appearances actually reflect a delicate point. the fact is that the aim of this spring summit is to articulate three policies - economic, social and sustainable development - whereas the treaties do not provide the legal bases for action in all three areas at once. so, of course, our words are like wishes or vows that we know we have no means to carry out. so behind our debates and the spring summit that is being prepared there is a fundamental issue linked to the reform of these treaties in the context of the new constitution for the european union. i think that if we are to arrive at a coherent approach in determining how these three elements can create a virtuous circle of development in europe, we would be well advised to look more closely at what is happening in the services of general interest sector. if there is a triangle, the public service is the center of it. let us reflect on this and see how our european policies are working today. mr president-in-office of the council, we will not achieve anything by trying to speed up the construction of the internal market, with all that this implies in terms of opening up to competition and, ultimately, privatization, and then trying to maintain the balance by arguing that this will be done in the interests of the public, social cohesion, etc. we have a duty to evaluate what has been done, and this will enable us to reflect on how an economic activity - which is supposed to meet fundamental rights and guarantee social and territorial cohesion - can or should be conceived and integrated into the new treaties. where's the evaluation? what is the state of play of the framework directive on services of general interest? what is the status of our proposals to strengthen article 16 of the treaty, particularly as regards the means and tasks of these services of general interest? i believe that if we are able to move forward in our thinking, without dogmatism, by looking at what is happening and what would be desirable to do, our ideas will begin to take shape. you know, brains are valuable, but what counts above all is collective intelligence, and this is particularly present in users, employees and operators, as well as in elected officials who, every day, are forced to see the cost of closing a number of public services in their homes. i think that this is a very important vector which we must exploit and take advantage of in the years to come.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must admit that i was a little disappointed, because i was expecting to see evidence that the european union had really integrated sustainable development. but that is still not the case. in gothenburg, however, the union took a big step in this direction by announcing its willingness to measure sustainable development through the spring councils. but after hearing your speeches, we have to admit that once again this spring council will not achieve that objective. sustainable development is not part of the european project, a chapter among others, as it has been presented. sustainable development implies a new approach to all our european policies, which would integrate the social and environmental aspects, as well as the economy. my question is: have you analysed the union's policies in the light of these new criteria and, in particular, environmental criteria? we would like to know how environmental and social issues are reflected in your proposals. indeed, what are the consequences of an economy that we want to be the most competitive? more layoffs ? more environmental damage? we now know the financial cost of these social and environmental degradations. so please, do not make this spring summit just another summit, but an innovative summit. the european union will only emerge from the present crisis by changing its policies in the way that the citizens expect, and only a project of socially and ecologically sustainable development will restore the dynamism, optimism and confidence that seemingly are sorely lacking in both the council and the commission. and if the union, our european union, fails to respond to the challenges of the day, both at the international level - i am thinking of course of the issue of iraq, on which europe is intolerably divided - and at the level of european citizens who are demanding more europe, a better europe, then who will be able to cope with them?
- mr president, europe has two reasons for being: peace and prosperity. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the peace is in fact threatened by the incredible violation of the treaties by the signatories of the maastricht treaty, britain, italy, spain, portugal and denmark, and i doubt that the summit called for next monday by the greek presidency will make much of a difference. in reality, there is no more european policy than what the french expression calls "butter in a pin" and, basically, for the same reason, namely that it does not withstand fire. there is no more new than there is old europe. there is simply no europe at all. as far as prosperity is concerned, which is more the subject of this debate, if the union's growth is half as low as it could be, it is because of a monetary policy which is very old-fashioned and made for an old-fashioned europe. the malthusian policy of the european central bank, as has been repeatedly stated in this house, is the main cause of european stagnation and, soon, of recession. so if you are going to have a spring summit, mr prodi or mr greek minister-in-office, let it be worthy of the name! the european union's economy must be brought out of the monetary winter into which the european central bank's policies have plunged it. i want to see proof of this in your own report on the competitiveness of european countries after the lisbon summit. what are the three countries that are doing the best, what are the three countries on the podium? britain, sweden and denmark, which have not adopted the euro. they are doing better in the areas of unemployment, inflation, debt and competitiveness than the countries that have adopted the euro. then look for the mistake! and now that you are rejoicing - i heard mr goebbels this morning congratulating himself that the euro is finally getting its colours back - that the euro is beating the dollar - the old dream! - know that the more the euro appreciates, the more european growth will decline. your vanity will be flattered, but that will mean 17,000 more unemployed every month, as in france last month.
- in its report to the european council on 21 march, the commission called on the member states to step up their efforts to meet the objective they set themselves in lisbon in the spring of 2000: to create the most competitive and dynamic economy in the world within 10 years. this is a welcome call, because today we are more like an old europe sinking into a stalemate. in response, the commission and the council have just presented interesting action plans, notably for the european research area, which should enable us to attract the best minds on the planet and also to retain them, i would add, thanks to non-dissuasive taxation. but the main responsibilities lie with the states and the european union must help them better in several areas. for example, firstly, we must ensure that uniform european rules do not add rigidity to those already in place. uniformity generates information and transaction savings on paper but in practice it also generates many costs because a single rule may not be suitable for everyone. this is probably what is happening to us with the euro. let's not make too many of these mistakes. in particular, let us preserve flexibility, let us preserve economic and social coordination which is really open, that is to say, which does not surreptitiously impose standard solutions on everyone. secondly, we must stop the convention drifting towards a super-state which would be cumbersome and restrictive. in particular, we must absolutely reject the european tax which is on the horizon and which would increase our compulsory levies, either immediately or some time later. thirdly, the european union must help the member states to welcome only useful immigration into the labour market. the floods of immigrants of all kinds are weighing heavily on our public finances and on the workings of our societies. yes, more needs to be done to help the poorest, but in their homes and in our mutual interest. in this respect, the commission must radically change its policy, as i said yesterday in connection with the terrón i cusí report. fourthly, the union must be more aggressive in defending our interests on the international stage. we are appalled to see that the commission has just again offered the wto, with the council's agreement, a 36 per cent reduction in our agricultural tariffs, thus destroying the community preference a little more. on the contrary, if we want to reduce budgetary support in a smooth way, we must at the same time strengthen community preference. the member states must make a great effort to reform, it is true, but the union must support them and not make their task more difficult.
in writing. - this text calls on the european parliament to give its blessing to an economic agreement between the european union and the chilean state. once again, commercial concerns are presented as acts of generosity. the new association agreement is expected to strengthen relations between the eu and latin america at a time when the region is experiencing serious difficulties. but it was precisely the predatory actions of european companies that brought argentina to its knees. and we are being led to believe that identical economic exchanges will have beneficial results! there is no doubt that this trade will be profitable for europe's big capital. but for the chilean people? a few large chilean families of wealthy people will continue to get rich, like those who made their fortune in wine. but this enrichment of a few will not bring any benefits to the great mass of the population. the agreement also provides for cooperation in the fight against terrorism. the fact that this is a country where one of the greatest criminals in recent history, pinochet, is living in peace, with the general indifference of the great powers, is yet another reason to reject this draft recommendation!
in writing. - we're not going to vote against the fact that the public can have access to public sector information. but even when they are in favour of transparency, the european institutions are in favour of public sector documents being used by commercial companies for private profit. it is not transparency, it is information for the benefit of some and misinformation for others. the only transparency which could be of use to the whole population in this area would be to oblige large companies to make their accounts available to everyone. thus, when firms are preparing to lay off workers, workers and the population of the regions concerned would be able to see that the profits of the firms in question or, failing that, the personal fortunes of their shareholders would allow the threatened jobs to be maintained and that consequently the dismissals are not justified.
in writing. - i have already said in the debate that the commission's proposal on the harmonization of work permits for third country nationals violates subsidiarity and would give brussels essential powers to the states to regulate their respective labour markets. more specifically, this centralisation would have several disadvantages. it would make rigid a system which must remain flexible and flexibly adaptable to the local needs of each state. it would put the member states in a position of perpetual defendants, as is shown by the provision in article 29 (4) of the proposal for a directive which i quoted in the debate, which provides for the mandatory statement of reasons for refusal of work permits. finally, it would open the door to further harmonisation in the chain, as the european parliament has very well understood, which has outbid by its amendments, in a lax perspective. the rapporteur himself has given evidence of this, calling at the beginning of his explanatory statement for the 'end of the policy of stopping immigration which has been widely practised up to now'. at least with such statements, the hidden intentions of the text become clear. we denounce this policy of centralisation to disarm ourselves better, and we obviously voted against it.
in writing. - the rapporteur makes no secret of the fact that his main concern, when he deals with the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of gainful employment, is to satisfy what he calls 'labour market requirements'. it therefore shares with the commission the concern to provide capitalist enterprises with the labour they need. in other times, we talked about slave traders. we did not vote against this report because some of the amendments proposed would make things a little easier for immigrant workers. but we reject the spirit of the approach. the report proposes relaxations compared with the commission's draft because the strict regulations contained in the latter, in particular the impossibility for the so-called undocumented workers to legalise their situation, or the requirement of stable employment for a sufficiently long period of time to obtain a work card, eventually become burdensome compared to the demands of the employers themselves. as regards the regularisation of the situation of the undocumented, which is timidly addressed in the report, we reiterate the demand for immediate and unconditional regularisation of the situation of all those who live and work in the territory of the european union.
in writing. - from the reduction of administrative or legislative restrictions on applicants when they arrive on european territory, to the extension and simplification of the conditions for the residence of non-community nationals in europe, to the broader definition of 'family members' or the possibility of issuing collective visas at the border, the list of immigration-related incentives included in the three reports presented to us yesterday morning is long. but beyond this philosophy of increasingly destructive national identities and economies, we must bear in mind that the worst is yet to come. as from may 2004, the council will no longer be able to reach unanimity on asylum, immigration and free movement, but will be able to do so by qualified majority and co-decision with the european parliament. so tomorrow, with this reform announced in the amsterdam treaty, the nation states will no longer be in control of the management of their migration flows and their immigration policy. other states will be able to decide for them and force them to apply measures which run counter to their own national interests. therefore, without a reaction from the european people and leaders, we will witness the voluntary sinking of all the nations of europe, which have become totally dependent on europe's suicidal immigration policy.
in writing. - i voted for the joint resolution tabled by the left, which was in the direction of the social movement and against unbridled globalisation! our text was rejected "by a landslide" in favour of a liberal-conservative text which goes against the demands of those who demonstrated in porto alegre and davos. our european parliament has once again confirmed that it is right-wing by majority. and let us not forget the preparations for the european elections in june 2004!
in writing. - i voted against the european parliament's resolution on the forthcoming opening of agricultural negotiations in the wto for two reasons. firstly, the resolution endorses the commission's general approach of agreeing to start comprehensive negotiations in the agricultural field, with an accelerated liberalisation perspective, even though the content of the reform of the european cap will only be decided at a later stage. in other words, the commission is trying to force its hand on us. secondly, the negotiating proposal tabled by the commission on behalf of the european union proposes to reduce export subsidies (which is acceptable, given the harm they can cause to poor countries), but also to reduce our import protections by an average of 36%. in other words, we would be dismantling the community preference a little further. on the contrary, a general principle of regional preference should be established, with each country or group of countries having the right to preserve its agricultural model. this would require removing agriculture from the wto rules. once again the commission is trying to manipulate us, and we can only deplore the approval given by the french government to the general affairs council on 27 january.
in writing. - the european union's proposal for wto negotiations is not compatible with the objectives of the cap. the joint resolution does, however, remind the negotiator of some essential points on which he must not make any concessions, in order to preserve the countries' freedom of choice, whether it be in ensuring their independence in terms of supply or in determining their agricultural model. however, we do not support it. firstly, because the opinion of the european parliament no longer has any significance after the council's decision. the resolution does not, however, call into question the substance of the decision. how can we maintain agricultural activity throughout the whole of the territory, protect designations of origin, reduce subsidies, open up borders more and more, when we have no positive sign that our partners are prepared to accept the compensation and limits proposed. the convergence of world prices below production costs will not offer the countries of the south any more prospects than those of the north. it can already be concluded that the present proposal, even if it is presented to us without any assessment of its consequences, will oblige the european union to adopt the principle of decoupling of aid.
- mr president, the white paper on transport is undoubtedly an event to which we owe a great deal to commissioner loyola de palacio in that, for the first time, it does not simply lay down market rules but offers us a voluntary strategy in favour of a transport policy, of sustainable mobility, more favourable to non-polluting modes of transport. we welcomed the fact that our proposals for european loans to finance the transeuropean networks, which are currently out of order in the council, were accepted. but we ultimately abstained on this report for a simple reason: we believe that there will be no fair competition in transport in europe without a policy of social and fiscal convergence. the tax and social differences between member states today, particularly on the eve of enlargement, are likely to create flag transfers, particularly in road transport, which distort competition and render ineffective and ineffective our efforts to open up markets and to shift modal from road to rail.
in writing. - the need for a transport rationalisation policy at european union level is obvious, since the organisation of railways, major road or river routes at national level is anachronistic, not to mention air transport. it is still necessary to know what policy is involved. the main concern of the report is to deliver more public transport to the private sector, even when it is still a public service, by proposing subsidies and tax incentives for private capital. we reject this policy as a whole, where the pretense of rational transport planning is nothing but a deception. the fact that this sector, which is essential for social life, is based on competition and the pursuit of maximum profit leads to waste, aberrations, insecurity for users, if not to disasters. a european transport policy should be based on the public service of the main means of public transport. the essential public transport, which is essential for the population, should not generate private profit but be organised according to needs. we therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - last night i had the opportunity to express my strong reservations about a white paper and a report which illustrate the gap between the objectives and the means used to achieve them, in the field of transport as in many other areas in europe. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. the right wing has united, often with the support of the socialists. i therefore voted against a report which fails to address the serious problems of spatial planning, the environment and social issues.
in writing. - i heard a colleague of mine talk about "a revolution in transport culture", and i agree! we agree to encourage the development of clean transport, we agree to limit road traffic, we agree to a european transport policy which contributes to economic and social cohesion. but let us not forget one thing: there are real geographical and cultural differences between the countries which explain the history of transport in each of them and which europe must not ignore. for example, in france there is a great diversity of landscapes, particularly in mountain areas and rural areas. if we want equal treatment of citizens wherever they are in france, and more broadly in europe, we cannot reason in a dogmatic way as the commission did in its proposal. this proposal lacks pragmatism and does not take sufficient account of disparities in treatment at local level. when i see the glaring lack of transport infrastructure in certain geographical areas which are already suffering from isolation, depopulation and neglect, i cannot accept the guidelines in this white paper which continue to respond to the liberal concern alone. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - i voted for the report. transport policy is essential both for economic development and for the preservation of the environment and the living environment, which requires a long-term vision. improving transport quality means increasing alternatives to road, in particular by supporting rail and the effective implementation of north-south links (rhine-rhone-mediterranean via frankfurt/lyon/perpignan/barcelona) and european interconnections (lyon-turin, etc.). in this area, the political will of governments is sometimes lacking. improving transport efficiency also means paying particular attention to trans-european waterway networks. all too often these projects are blocked. improving transport safety also means avoiding predictable weather events that block roads, airports, leaving citizens to fend for themselves, without adequate responsiveness, equipment, or effective warning systems, even though the appropriate techniques exist. finally, i am not in favour of the creation of a european road safety agency. i do not think that the problems we are facing today can be solved by multiplying this type of structure. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - while supporting the auroi report and the work of our rapporteur, i wanted to stress throughout the debate that if the precautionary principle were applied in the field of mobile telephony, we would stop using mobile phones. i can see why. so at least we should do a proper research to limit the potential dangers of this technology and ban the most dubious installations or equipment very quickly! we need not wait for another asbestos-type tragedy to make us aware of the dangers that threaten us.
in writing. - the agenda for the european council in march, which has just been presented to us, contains such a multitude of economic and social priorities that it will inevitably lead to confusion. we see three negative effects in particular. firstly, there is a complete lack of public awareness, especially since many of the subjects considered to be priorities at european level are in reality very secondary in the eyes of our fellow citizens. secondly, the subliminal message that we do not accept is that the european union is a superstate that takes care of everything and touches everything. finally, and above all, it is guaranteed to be ineffective, because in the face of so many priorities, the action of the union and the states can only be dispersed. as i said in the debate, many of the proposed actions are very interesting, but we must concentrate on a few key ideas: the european union must not add an additional layer of cumbersome and restrictive management; it must remain flexible and differentiated; it must make life easier for member states on the international stage by helping them to limit immigration and by fighting at the wto so that we can maintain our security as the identity of our societies.
in writing. - i spoke this morning to ask that this summit not be merely a catalogue of good intentions and that the goal of full employment, with all its consequences, become a quasi-unique objective from which everything else flows. the resolution voted on, signed by right-wing meps and the pse, was unacceptable, especially as the votes had further 'liberalised' it. so i voted against it!
- mr president, the fifteen are faced with a test of truth. the attitude they adopt in the coming days, faced with the prospect of a new gulf war, will in fact shape the outline of a vision of europe and a conception of the world. they will have to assume their responsibilities in a context which will leave no room for any of those soft consensus to which the cfsp has so often accustomed us. between the pressure of the bush administration for a rally to the war and the demands of european public opinion, which is massively opposed to it, there will be no medium term: we will have to choose. what message does parliament have to convey to the european council in these circumstances? its resolution of 30 january was clear on the essentials and remains fully up to date. let me add a few points drawn from the impressive experience of the delegation of more than 30 meps from 11 countries and four political groups who have just returned from iraq. i would like to begin by sweeping away the insidious remarks of those who have tried to portray us as being in the service of saddam hussein. in the opinion of the journalists present, it was the most independent delegation in recent times. moreover, our links with the democratic opponents of the regime in baghdad and our absolute rejection of saddam are well known enough that i shall not dwell on this little trial of intent without foundation. i hope that the european parliament's ad hoc delegation to iraq will not stop in new york but will go on to baghdad. conversely, our delegation will be traveling quickly to new york and washington, where the antiwar movement is spreading day by day, right into congress. so what did we see and hear in iraq, and what collective conclusions did we draw from that? first, there are the impressions and the accumulated information about the lives of the population, from baghdad and its poorest suburbs to basra in the south and mosul in the north with its gigantic kurdish refugee camp in turkey. poverty is rampant everywhere and social regressions are spectacular, according to those who lived in iraq before the gulf war, and even more so before the war against iran. there is no economy, except for oil, whose exports have fallen by half, due to lack of investment. in rural areas, activity has collapsed, desertification is increasing, exodus is accelerating. un officials are sounding the alarm: one third of the population is chronically malnourished, one third of children are severely underweight. infant mortality has exploded in the last decade. more than 8,000 schools are in a state of disrepair and would require rehabilitation that is currently too expensive. the students are deprived of books. a teacher earns the equivalent of a few euros a month. in iraq today, people are not living, they are trying to survive with the meager assistance of the oil-for-food programme, financed by hydrocarbon resources and managed directly by the government. this is the result of 12 years of embargo. ending this intolerable collective punishment is an absolute imperative. we will also get a sense of the memory of the war by visiting, as we did, the so-called demilitarized zone in the south of the country. there, a pile of countless carcasses of tanks, cars, jeeps, buses reminds us that in the final hours of the conflict, even as iraqi troops were retreating, a final bombing left more than 30,000 unnecessary victims. today, in this context, fatalism, resignation, and silent trauma are dominant. a new war would inevitably lead to a dramatic disruption of the food and water supply. it would be a humanitarian disaster. this reason alone, in our view, radically forbids any new use of war, whatever the circumstances. there is another reason for this, namely the risk of destabilisation of the whole region, starting with the middle east, where the palestinian people are facing one of the worst situations in their history. the other highlight for us was our meeting with the spokesman for the inspectors and the director of the un inspection centre in baghdad. what they told us is common sense. first, as long as the inspectors are on the ground, saddam will have little chance of manufacturing banned weapons. secondly, it is absolutely impossible to accomplish such a mission in two months, but with time, resources and the cooperation of the authorities, the objective of the international community to ensure that iraq no longer represents a threat to the world can be achieved. that is why we have publicly stated on the spot that we believe that the only chance for iraq today is to cooperate fully with the un inspectors. this is also why the franco-german proposals to strengthen the inspectors' resources are, in our view, the only acceptable solution to this crisis today, to the exclusion of any military operation. this is the position our group expects from the member states, and especially from those of them who sit on the un security council, all the more so since they have the right of veto, which they have, if necessary, the duty to use if that were the only way to refuse an unworthy bail to a power-drunk team which today endangers the balance and peace of the world. what credit would the un have if the rule of the stronger led a handful of states to violate the spirit of the un charter in such a cynical way? next saturday, around the world, an unprecedented backlash in many countries will rise up to say no to war. we want as many members of the european parliament as possible to be visible in these demonstrations, because europe has a duty to say no to an imperial machine, the nature and scope of which are illustrated by the new strategic doctrine published by the bush administration on 20 september: the cult of military force, the desire for domination, the claim, i quote, 'to act alone, if necessary, as a preventive measure' to achieve objectives which have nothing to do with the security of the world. allies but not allies, we said the day after 9/11. we must remind this principle to the quartet of leaders among the fifteen who are ready to divide europe at the whistle of the white house. as for the applicant countries, i think it is time to tell them frankly, before the ratification of the accession treaties, that we must be clear about our common ambition: let us not confuse the new europe with a remake of nato. let us rise to the occasion of a european public opinion that is gaining ground throughout the continent. in the eyes of a growing number of our fellow citizens, what the united states has gained in power, it is losing in confidence because of the messianic and megalomaniacal drift of its leaders. this situation gives the european union a historic responsibility, not against america, but against the dangerous hegemony of those who claim to rule the world in its name, even if it leads to chaos. we are, as i said, facing a test of truth. history is not written. let those who hold the cards in their hands consider the weight of their responsibility. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are many aspects to this sad iraqi affair. we've covered a lot of them, but what strikes me at this point is the incredible power of propaganda, and particularly the mechanism of demonization. indeed, there are today throughout the world a very large number of men and women, probably in all sincerity, who believe that saddam hussein is threatening world peace, or even, as mr poettering said earlier - if the situation were not so dramatic, it would make one smile - that saddam hussein is starving his people, whereas the truth is exactly the opposite and so simple that it is almost embarrassing to formulate it in its simplicity. it is the american and british governments which have for years imposed a terrible embargo on a population which has been reduced to living, or rather surviving, in a ghetto. as a result, iraq is a bloodless country, now unable to wage any war. karl ritter, who headed the inspection which ended in 1998, said it was impossible that iraq could have built any weapons of mass destruction. i repeat, propaganda must be very powerful to make us eat painful lies. and even if iraq were armed, what right do we have to deprive it of any means of defence? this is the second trick of propaganda: to blind us to the condition of a world of order, that is, a world of sovereign nations cooperating with each other and balancing each other. no, iraq's armament is no more dangerous than that of other nations, especially its neighbors, saudi arabia, iran and syria, who are not necessarily motivated by the best intentions. i simply believe that we have no right to disarm iraq, any more than any other country, as general de gaulle pointed out in 1963 when he refused to sign the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. another trick: to make it appear that what the propaganda calls the international community has the right to overthrow a regime, which is absolutely contrary to international law, and even, i will say this as a conclusion, mr president, to the most fundamental truth in the world, which is the freedom of peoples. we shall see that little by little, i hope, during this century.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, many people are now discovering the unspeakable misery created for the iraqi people by the blockade over the last ten years. we have tried to enlighten this parliament by more than thirty speeches in public. it 's no use . it is not too late to stop the infernal machine which, after having caused the breakdown of the cfsp, the discord in the european union and in the atlantic alliance, threatens world peace. war, the scourge of mankind, was banished from civilized nations, and the league of nations was replaced by the united nations as the principal agency for the restoration and preservation of peace. only self-defense can justify the use of weapons. but who can believe that iraq, a small country of twenty million people, bleeding and ruined, can threaten the united states and britain, which are a hundred or a thousand times more powerful than it. iraq has been called upon to prove its innocence, but we know that this is a diabolical demand, since in law it is the accuser who has to prove guilt. abject, degrading methods have been used to justify the aggression. mr blair has dared to present to the house of commons, as evidence, a document stolen from a student and dated ten years ago. and colin powell authenticated it to the security council. when the criminal fraud was discovered, none of them drew the conclusion that would have been normal: resignation. if, despite the opposition of the people, the premeditated crime is committed, then may the war criminals be cursed and the blood of the children of iraq be on their heads.
mr president, the joint declaration by france, germany and russia last monday begins with a phrase which i think everyone will agree with. the three parties reaffirm, and i quote, that 'the disarmament of iraq, in accordance with the relevant un resolutions, is the common objective of the international community and must be completed as soon as possible'. this sentence contains four statements: yes, saddam hussein is armed; yes, he is dangerous; yes, it must be disarmed; yes, it must be done as soon as possible. for this disarmament to be effective, we must not allow ourselves to be locked into the waiting and the delaying of the last ten years. the only new argument against being trapped in this situation is the threat of armed intervention. this argument must absolutely remain credible. we must not do anything to discredit him if we want to move the discussions forward, as we wish. that is why i firmly believe, mr president, that the apparently different strategies of the countries of europe and the united states are not contradictory but complementary. it would be better to organise this complementarity if we do not want to play the saddam hussein game.
mr president, our parliament is called upon today to debate a situation which, if it goes beyond the borders of our continent, constitutes both a major challenge to the unity of europe and a test of the ability of our countries to assert their humanist values at a very critical moment in our history. i do not want to minimize the disagreements that are being observed on the international scene or the need to reach agreement quickly, first in europe and then at the un, on the assessment of the risks that are actually being incurred and on the diplomatic, political and military means to guard against them. it seems to me that most of the comments in the media are more about hitting the head than about objectively analysing the situation. the international community as a whole is unanimous in condemning the current iraqi regime, its disregard for the most basic human rights, when it is its own people, its constant failure to respect un resolutions, when it does not decide to invade sovereign countries. it is on this basis that the members of the united nations and the security council first and foremost must work hard to reach a consensus on the best way to resolve the iraqi question. in a civilized and democratic world, the very world we claim and which the current iraqi regime is denigrating and playing with, the response to such a situation can certainly be military, but only when all other solutions have been exhausted. before that, all reasonable solutions must be explored and tried, at least that is the view which we, as representatives of free and democratic countries, have the honour and duty to advocate and implement. it seems to me absurd to compare the present situation with that of the 1930s in europe, to caricature the position of the united states, which was rightly marked by 9/11, or to focus attention on the divergences of opinion among europeans, who are divided between a reinforced diplomatic action before a possible assault and an immediate military intervention without further delay. ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of peace or war, of life or death for many living beings. such issues leave little room for demagogic, hasty or tactical stances. let us all be calm and collective and we will overcome our divisions.
- mr president, i would like to take this opportunity of this annual debate to express my concern about the obstacles to freedom of movement and, more generally, about restrictions on immigration policy in the union. it is clear that the call for the fight against terrorism leads to so-called security measures which sometimes affect many fundamental rights, and this is likely to accentuate an existing drift. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. the council will then be able to submit a proposal to the council for adoption by the end of the year. in france, the interior minister's so-called "internal security" bill targets illegal immigration, squatting in halls, aggressive begging, passive or active recruitment, explicitly targeting foreign prostitutes, as well as crimes punishable by heavy fines and, in some cases, prison sentences. in short, a bill that links immigration, poverty and insecurity. furthermore, as regards immigration and asylum policy, the current french proposals amount to the introduction of quotas for tourist visas, the drawing up of a list of so-called safe countries, compulsory repatriation or the creation of a european border guard corps. yet imposing quotas or talking about managing migration flows while attracting brains and arms from the south, as long as they are useful to the "european market", is a hypocrisy that in fact helps to cover up smuggling networks, encourage poverty immigration and exploitation chains, or even criminalize migrants at the expense of a policy based on equal rights and freedom of movement. the seville council had given a very bad signal in this respect by reducing the european approach to immigration to the establishment of ever more restrictive conditions of entry and residence, and even by monetizing economic aid accordingly. however, if we talk more often about police than about trade, more about insecurity than about freedom, how can we contribute to development, which many europeans are drowning in generous speeches about, without human exchanges and without traffic? the closure of the sangatte camp in northern france is a further demonstration that the closure of borders does not in any way alleviate the plight of those fleeing persecution, conflict or poverty. ethnic minorities and the most vulnerable populations are the hardest hit by this repressive policy. i am thinking of the roma who are threatened with expulsion by the european union and are in fact rejected. i am thinking of the undocumented people in france who, despite their legitimate desire to live legally, are prevented from doing so by a policy of blocking, arresting and deporting. however, there is still a lot to be done to take initiatives designed to open up to the world and to welcome it: for example, to contribute to genuine development cooperation, to ensure equal social and economic rights, access to employment for all, but also equal civil rights. i am thinking of the legalisation of the undocumented or the madrid call for a citizenship of residence, the recognition of the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in local and european elections. europe therefore needs a new immigration policy.
- mr president, i too would like to thank mrs ludford. i think that, with her relevant oral questions, she has allowed us to have a debate which is obviously very interesting. i agree with most of his analysis. i think that the council cannot be accused of not having done enough this year. it could even be said that the council was seized with a kind of fever, obviously influenced by the atmosphere of 11 september, by a kind of ultrasekurity reaction on the part of public opinion and by more directly electoral concerns, which shows quite clearly that the examination of a number of issues would be better divided equally between opinion, through the positions of the european parliament, and the initiatives of the commission. the sum of national selfishness does not make a law in matters of general european interest. i'd like to draw your attention to a work in progress. my group had the pleasure of bringing together a number of associative actors from all over europe who are working on the issue of the exclusion of foreigners in europe. it's pretty scary. the analyses made, country by country, show very worrying developments. camps of all kinds and all kinds, with or without regulations, open or closed, in which foreigners are sorted, detained, imprisoned, punished, kept in the heat for forced return or not, are proliferating. i think that these blatant denials of the right of people to seek, for example, asylum in europe are quite worrying. i would ask the commission to look closely at these practices and to examine how, since they are a priori the responsibility of the national states, european policy can produce or encourage such actions on the part of the member states. for example, we have seen at this seminar that readmission agreements were indeed an incentive for member states to set up such camps. the question therefore arises, in the light of the satisfactory results, in my view, of the convention's working party, whether we should encourage the council to work this year, or whether we should wait for new modes of decision-making to allow for a better balance between the three poles of space that we have been talking about for some time.
council mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is particularly concerned about the deaths and injuries caused each year by unexploded ordnance left over from armed conflicts. in addition to direct civilian deaths and injuries, the presence of explosive remnants of war often impedes humanitarian aid, peacekeeping, post-conflict reconstruction and development in general. the union has therefore played an active role in the discussion on explosive remnants of war in the context of the convention on certain conventional weapons. let me give you some examples of the union's activities in this field. in june 2001, the union distributed a discussion paper on explosive remnants of war to the meeting convened on the subject of such explosives in preparation for the second review conference of the convention on certain conventional weapons. the general affairs council on 19 november 2001 adopted conclusions on the promotion of the convention on certain conventional weapons, in which it requested the second review conference to establish a working group on explosive remnants of war. thirdly, the european union submitted a working document to the second review conference of the convention on certain conventional weapons in geneva in december 2001 calling for the establishment of a legal instrument to deal with explosive remnants of war, which would seek to prevent the formation of explosive remnants, including by requiring greater construction reliability and self-destruct mechanisms, and to prevent bodily injury caused by explosive mechanisms that have been in explosive remnants of war. the union also submitted a reflection paper on explosive remnants of war to the governmental expert group set up by the second review conference. at the meeting of states parties to the convention on certain conventional weapons, the presidency, on behalf of the european union, stressed that the establishment of a legally binding instrument on explosive remnants of war under the convention is a matter of priority for the union. the council did agree to the recommendation of the governmental experts group to begin negotiating a means for these explosives. the relevant council working party will discuss future union action in this area. i would like to point out on behalf of the council that there is no unanimity among the member states of the union on the declaration of an immediate moratorium on the use of all types of cluster munitions. the council has also received no information on the possible use of cluster bombs by any nato member. the first three articles of the november 1997 joint action of the union address the issue of the universality of the mine ban treaty, by which the member states of the union have committed themselves to the objective of the complete elimination of antipersonnel mines throughout the world. the joint action shall empower the presidency to take appropriate measures. these measures have so far consisted of political visits to countries not yet party to the treaty, including associated countries, and also of calls to accede to the treaty. these steps are taken by the presidency. the union has also promoted the universality of the treaty in all appropriate forums, in particular at the united nations. the decisions of the general assembly on the implementation of the treaty have been unanimously supported by the member states of the european union. in addition, the regulations of the european parliament and of the council of 23 july 2001 on action against anti-personnel landmines in developing countries and third countries other than developing countries have a common article 3 according to which any union-funded cooperation in the field of mine action should in principle be directed to countries that are parties to the mine ban treaty. exceptions can only be made for humanitarian reasons. this attitude of the union has created a strong incentive to join the mine ban treaty. the european union and its member states are the leading international funder of mine action, which in turn is an important way of promoting compliance with the treaty. i would also point out that no report has been submitted to the council on the use of depleted uranium munitions by american and british forces in the intervention in afghanistan. the council has not dealt with the question of the implementation of the protocol on untraceable fragments, a protocol to the convention on certain conventional weapons to which all member states are parties. the council has also not held any discussion of the ongoing work in the united nations on this subject. finally, the council does not have at its disposal a list of munitions containing depleted uranium currently in use. decisions on the use of different types of ammunition are taken by member states under their national sovereignty. all member states are parties to the geneva conventions. nor has the council received any information on the possible use of depleted uranium munitions in chechnya, nor has it discussed the question of considering the use of cluster bombs or depleted uranium as a war crime under the statute of the international criminal court.
commission. – let me start by saying that serious scientific studies have shown that there is no reason for anxiety in relation to the issue of the harmful effects of depleted uranium ammunitions on health. from the commission perspective, i want, in particular, to refer to the opinion of the euratom treaty article 31 expert group which was convened in early 2001, with the participation not only of member states experts but also representatives of unep, the iaea, the who and nato. the group focused on the lasting contamination from the use of depleted uranium ammunitions in the balkans and the potential post-war radiological risk for the health of the local population and the international assistance teams. the group did not look at the actual health effect on soldiers who had been on mission in that region, this being outside the community remit and to be handled in other fora such as nato. again i refer parliament to the conclusions of its own stoa report of may 2001, when it came to much the same conclusion in relation to this issue. on 6 march 2001, the opinion of the article 31 expert group was released to the press. in a nutshell, it concluded that there is no major concern, from a radiological point of view, either in terms of inducing short-term cancer, or in terms of a wide impact on the environment. widespread intervention in the concerned regions was not required. other reports issued by unep on 13 march 2001, the who on 1 may 2002 and the uk royal society on 12 march 2002 present similar conclusions. in addition, the latter two reports also address the chemical toxicity of the uranium, concluding that it is not expected that adverse effects on the kidneys or any other organ will occur. at the end of march 2001, my colleague, commissioner wallström, concluded that no further actions seemed to be required with regard to the application of the basic safety standards for the protection of the health of workers and the general public against the dangers arising from ionising radiation. as mentioned above, further investigations into the chemical toxicity not addressed in the report of mrs wallström have since been analysed in the who and the uk royal society reports. while the article 31 expert group had concluded that there was no need for individual monitoring of the commission's own staff and contractors sent to the region, the commission's medical services nonetheless proposed a check-up and urine analysis programme for the staff members concerned. no single health effect related to depleted uranium has been observed. coming now to the commission's activities related to anti-personnel landmines following the european parliament and council regulations 1724/2001 and 1725/2001 on the reinforcement of the european union contribution to the fight against apls, the european union has taken a leading role in fostering better coordination of programmes and in providing momentum, predictability and effectiveness for cooperation between partners on the ground. this is very strong support by the european community for the implementation of the mine ban treaty that is the ottawa convention, according to which all apls should be eliminated by 2009. in 2001, under the new apl regulation providing for a dedicated legal basis for coordination at european union level, the community budget contributed up to eur 30 million for demining actions. using various community instruments such as geographical, echo, apl and rrm budget lines in an integrated way, the european commission has mainly supported surveys, clearance, assistance to victims, as well as the economic and social rehabilitation of the demined regions and the resettled populations. at european union level the european community efforts and the member states' activities combined total eur 143 million. the european union is, therefore, with the us, the top contributor in the fight against apls, including stockpile destruction and creation of local capacity-building. in order to ensure sustainability over the years, the commission approved in december 2002 the european commission mine action strategy and multiannual indicative programming for the period 2002-2004. this document was prepared on the basis of strong coordination with the member states, the united nations, the us, and the wider mine action community. the commission will, in the coming weeks, make the necessary arrangements to present this strategy to the european parliament committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. finally, coming to the issue of cluster bombs and other forms of unexploded ordnance, the convention on conventional weapons (ccw) is the current international framework that provides the basis for the prohibition and elimination of weapons which operate in an indiscriminate fashion or cause excessive injury and suffering. most eu member states are parties to the ccw and are working on the revision of the convention to further prohibit certain designs of weapon, such as explosive remnants of war, anti-handling devices, and to establish common principles on fuse insensitivity, self-destruction or self-neutralising weapon modes. these principles, if agreed, would be applied to anti-vehicle mines and submunitions – or munitions delivered by a remote carrier such as an aircraft, missile, minefield launcher and so on. the revision of the ccw is still at the level of working groups: one on anti-vehicles mines, the other on submunitions. the commission closely follows the debates of both groups. this revision would lead to a new protocol to the ccw to address the problems caused by explosive remnants of war, thus covering cluster bombs and submunitions, so that these weapons are detectable and equipped with effective self-destruction mechanisms. the work being carried out in view of the new protocol is strongly sponsored by the eu through a common position and a number of joint démarches requesting that concrete steps be undertaken to address this issue under the ccw framework. currently, the opportunity to prepare a further common position on the suggestions tabled is being explored. let me conclude by mentioning that, in addition to its participation in the international framework of the ccw, the commission, on a concrete and operational level through its activities related to apls, is already providing an indirect but tangible contribution to the reduction of the threat posed by cluster bombs and other unexploded ordnance. mine-clearance encompasses de jure and de facto clearance of other unexploded ordnance, although this is not a specific submunitions instrument. we are already engaged in such broader clearance activities in countries such as laos, kosovo and afghanistan, where the apl problem is inextricably connected to unexploded ordnance pollution.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i thank you for this essential update which you have just made and which shows the seriousness of the commission's work. it is the technician who, for once, will be speaking in this house, particularly on depleted uranium weapons. we must not, more or less consciously, keep in mind - in the minds of the public and, as i have seen in this house, in our own minds - the confusion between the use of depleted uranium weapons and the use of nuclear weapons. in this connection you have given us very important information and i would simply like to give you my personal testimony. depleted uranium weapons are weapons that have been developed to allow the penetration of new armor. the armor of world war ii was pierced by chemical-powered hollow-bore shells. the new armor can only be penetrated by kinetic energy weapons. they're arrow shells. it is necessary to be able to give them a high initial speed. they must also have heavy cores. that's why we took the depleted uranium. but again, the confusion i'm talking about is not innocent. i heard a television reporter covering our colleagues' mission in iraq speak twice - so it was not a slip - of enriched uranium in relation to these munitions. i was involved in the experimentation, the development of these weapons in the technical directorate of land armaments, where we have very powerful unions, which protect our workers and our engineers. i can therefore testify to you that, if there had been any risk, the precautionary principle we apply in our arms industries in france would have consistently disposed of these munitions.
- mr president, commissioner, i would first like to support the report by mrs redondo jiménez. it is true that forests play a vital role, because they have a multifunctional role, and as president of a regional nature park, i am particularly sensitive to the various actions concerning the preservation of natural areas, and more particularly of the forested areas. these are essential for us, for example, to prevent climate change. however, we must not consider the forest area as merely the lungs of europe. it is not only a green area, but also a significant source of economic, social and tourist activity. at community level, it is essential to link up the different experiences in the member states in order to promote the exchange of information and to set up an effective system of benchmarking. we must never forget that the best way to manage this heritage is and will be to be as close as possible to the land. the forestry sector is a very important sector in the european union. the principle of subsidiarity is essential and it is almost a field of competence shared between the union and the member states, the union and local authorities, the union and the actors on the ground represented in the european advisory committee on forests and cork and the standing forestry committee. it is for the union, in liaison with the member states, to determine the broad lines of action, the main objectives and to provide for the appropriate means of financing to achieve them. the council has a responsibility in this respect. the commission proposes to strengthen the remedial actions linked to forest fires. i fully support this important step, but i also call for more research into the causes of these fires. repair should not be the sole objective of long-term management. in the context of preserving our forest area, public awareness is important because the forest belongs first and foremost to the citizens and it is up to us, the members of the european parliament, to represent those citizens. that is why i believe that the forest must absolutely be part of the codecision procedure.
- mr president, i agree with most of my colleagues that forest management is a local and national matter, since there are so many different types of forests throughout europe. i do not think it is unusual for europe to be concerned about the health of the european forestry heritage as a whole, since it is true that there are no frontiers for air pollution, for plant health risks, or for possible natural or accidental disasters. the best formula is therefore probably the one called for by mr grossetête, namely codecision, a move towards codecision in forestry matters. however, beyond the approval that can be given to this forest focus programme, i consider that it is detrimental to a policy which was very much appreciated and which was working very well, i am referring to regulation (eec) no 2158/92 which has been mentioned by a number of colleagues. i come from a region in the south of france where a lot of effort is being made in terms of investment, in terms of forest fire prevention. we very much regret what is happening, this kind of trick whereby forest focus firstly removes from us a line of appropriations which was managed in co-decision in order to renationalize it for rural development, then, as mrs figueiredo said earlier, we do not have the same legal basis, we probably do not have the same appropriations and, moreover, we cannot finance the same types of investment. i regret that we are changing a policy that works. it was also a security policy. while efforts are being made elsewhere in europe in the field of maritime safety, aviation safety, railway safety and health safety, the commission is today proposing that we simply scrap a policy of prevention and safety in the forest, which is an extremely sensitive area for all the countries of southern europe. i consider that a deplorable regression. i am afraid that if we ever have disasters in the south of our continent, the people will blame us. we keep saying that we want to get closer to the people, that europe must be united, that europe must stand with the europeans. but in this extremely sensitive area, where a procedure used to work very well and was particularly appreciated, europe is now losing its visibility. it has removed this procedure from its policies and renationalized it as part of a particularly haphazard rural development policy. that is why i will support the remarkable work done by our colleague, mrs redondo jiménez, and in particular the amendments she has proposed - amendments 17 to 21 - and amendment 47 proposed by the socialist party. i hope, commissioner, that you will go back on your initial statement that it will not be supported by the commission.
- mr president, no one can now deny the correlation between poverty and the lack of reproductive and sexual rights. nor can anyone ignore the violations of women's rights in this area in some countries. the debate this evening is an opportunity to update the urgency of allocating substantial funds to the establishment of infrastructure for the most vulnerable populations, information, basic public health care and contraceptive measures. the commitments of the cairo international conference on population and development must be maintained and honoured. the european union's initiatives are all the more important now that over ten million children die every year from curable diseases in developing countries and 40 million people with aids and hiv also live in developing countries. the current situation is also marked by the attempt by the united states, which has fortunately been aborted for the time being, to include in the action plan recently adopted in bangkok, the promotion of fidelity and chastity as the only means of protection against sexually transmitted diseases (stds) or aids. this debate, and i thank the rapporteur for his efforts in this regard, must remain serious. a society that sets up the model of a so-called ideal family can only be a moralist, sectarian society in which women are always the first victims, their rights too often relegated to the whims of men, whether father, husband or brother. between the us district of columbia still legally criminalizing sex outside of marriage and nigeria, where women are stoned for the same reasons, what kind of society do you think we're building? the emancipation of women and the fulfilment of all therefore require rights and action. this is based on the inalienable right of women to freely dispose of their bodies without any constraint and to choose equally freely the time of their childbearing. the right to abortion must be defended and even acquired for all women, including in europe. in this connection, and on the basis of a call from polish women's and feminist associations, i would like to draw the attention of the commission and the council to a concrete and topical threat. the polish government is now reportedly asking that the accession treaty it is about to sign with the union include a reference to morality, culture and the promotion of life, which would in fact legitimize the existing restrictive law on abortion in poland. i join the call for the inclusion of this declaration in the accession treaty, as do the 60% of the population of this country who are opposed to this law. the commission and the member states would be sending a very bad signal to those, especially women, who believe in the values of freedom, dignity and emancipation of our european societies. finally, the underspending of development aid funds on health and education must be stopped. that is why i support the financial amount proposed by mrs sandbæk in her report.
- mr president, mrs sandbæk's report on the assistance that the european union can provide in the field of reproductive and sexual health and rights in developing countries is well-intentioned. we european women are fortunate to be able to carry a pregnancy to term, to have access to information and to be able to reconcile family and professional life. how can we accept that so many women are experiencing difficulties that we are spared here in europe? however, we must be careful not to condition our help on our view of family planning. it would be absurd to impose on these women a model, our own. it is essential to help these women to organise their society, their life as wives and mothers, in accordance with their traditions, values and culture. furthermore, women's rights cannot be reduced to reproductive and sexual issues. these women are the pillars of their society. they must therefore have greater access to education, information and training and be able to pass on to their children all the skills that will enable their countries to achieve real development, where access to health and information will have a full place. if pregnancy and childbirth are the main causes of death and disability among women in these developing countries, if sexually transmitted diseases are more common in these countries, then certainly not by eliminating pregnancy will we solve these problems. we must deal with the causes and not just the consequences, by means of access to information, as i said, and by means of access to medicines, especially generic medicines, as we said on monday evening, so that health care is not a luxury for the industrialized countries. madam rapporteur, you are telling us that abortion will never be a means of contraception. to convince us of that, you would have had to be more precise in your text. the amendments i tabled in committee should have been supported, which proposed precisely an alternative to abortion: a place of refuge for women who choose motherhood in spite of the difficulties of life. i thank my colleague mr ribeiro for taking them up, because reproductive and sexual health and rights will always be linked to the freedom and responsibility of each individual. so i hope that these women can carry out their responsibilities freely and without the pressures of our western model.
- mr president, the explanatory statement of this report is implicitly a real indictment of the current economic and social order, as reflected in the areas of reproductive and sexual health and rights. it is shocking that pregnancy and childbirth are among the leading causes of death and disability among women in developing countries. of the 600,000 deaths that occur as a result of pregnancy, 99 percent occur in developing countries, a shocking figure to which must be added the 50 million women who suffer serious complications. equally shocking is the fact that aids, and sexually transmitted diseases in general, are far more prevalent in poor countries than in developed ones. the proposals which have been put forward therefore seem to be very small measures to deal with this situation. in addition, the shortcomings noted are not only related to the small sums envisaged for implementing a health policy for poor countries. even more serious is the failure to tackle the pharmaceutical trusts which, in order to preserve their profits, even oppose the idea of marketing generic medicines. the dictatorship exercised by industrial and financial groups over society, which is unbearable in all areas of social life, has dramatic consequences in all areas affecting the health and physical integrity of human beings. in the face of this dictatorship, all the proposals illustrate the impotence of the european institutions when it comes to matters affecting the lives of women and men. we shall nevertheless vote on amendments which may lead to some improvement or which at least affirm some human principles, including the right to contraception and abortion.
- mr president, the report would like parliament to support the commission's internal market strategy, which aims to harmonize the various national markets. the rapporteur is concerned about the gap between the intention to complete the unification of the market at european level and the reluctance of the national states. but it is certainly not this that worries the working classes of the european union, but rather the avalanche of collective redundancies. the large companies responsible did not need a vote in parliament to harmonize their attitude in this field. these collective redundancies are the result of large companies such as airlib in france, or large multinationals such as daewoo, act, arcelor, pechiney or fiat, which are present in several european countries and whose current or former shareholders have a lot to finance the maintenance of employment of all those they turn into unemployed. whether big companies restructure is their business. but what is unacceptable and revolting is that they do so by condemning their workers to unemployment and poverty. it's the shareholders who pay, not the workers. the profits of companies and the capital of shareholders should be used primarily to ensure the employment and wages of workers.
- madam president, commissioner, the use of drugs is becoming alarmingly commonplace everywhere. this coincides with the social acceptance of its commercialisation as a recreational and sometimes daily product. but drugs are not a fate that must be endured. it carries serious infectious risks and causes real social deaths. you gotta call a spade a spade. we speak of risk in this report because there is danger. i am surprised that the amendment i tabled in committee was not adopted, although it called for avoiding the pitfall of the trivialization of drug use. how can we fight evil on the premise that it is inevitable, even necessary? this is sadly surreal. we're not going to reduce the risk by going into the ambiguity of political correctness. drug addiction is not acceptable. we must fight this scourge. there are no soft drugs. the aim is to inform, but the trap of trivialization must be fought. the risk reduction policy cannot be seen as a fatalistic acceptance of the dangers. it is not a question of further marginalizing drug users or of undermining risk reduction measures, but of demonstrating a clear commitment to prevention. it must act on both supply and demand and on our sense of social responsibility. refusing to accept the trivialization of drug use means taking responsibility, both for our young people, who are the mainly affected, and for the social bond that must never cease to unite us all.
the committee on petitions has tabled a number of amendments. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in 1998 two petitions with more than 1000 signatures were sent to the committee on petitions. they were from women who were worried or were victims, as mrs stihler said, and who were asking europe to look at the problems of breast implants, especially silicone implants. the petitions committee, listening to the citizens, then responded by asking the stoa to conduct an independent and thorough study on implants. it then held a hearing which was widely publicized and, as rapporteur, i was asked to draft a resolution which was unanimously adopted by the european parliament on 13 june 2001. it is of course a double pleasure to me that we are voting today on a communication on community and national provisions on breast implants. firstly, because it is a recognition of the work of the committee on petitions, which was the real initiator of this communication. secondly, because mrs stihler's excellent work takes up and reinforces almost all the suggestions made in the june 2001 resolution, particularly with regard to advertising, information to be provided to patients, the guarantee of high quality of implants, research, the responsibility of both manufacturers and surgeons and clinics, and the call for member states to maintain national registers and provide for a consent form. i simply regret that the idea of a passport for women was not included in the original report, and that is why i will support amendment no 3 to paragraph 10bis, tabled again on behalf of the pse group, which aims to reinstate this passport. some might object that this is just another piece of paper, but i consider it an effective way of feeding the future european database. in addition, this system allows the patient to have a real knowledge of the specific characteristics of the implant. in conclusion, i am pleased to vote for this resolution, which is a proof of good cooperation between the european commission and our parliamentary committees in order to meet the expectations of the european citizens. this is proof that the committee on petitions, through which citizens tend to point out the shortcomings of the community system, can also help to set in motion creative and positive community initiatives. it is also a way for us to prove to the petitioners that we are keeping our commitments.
in writing. (fr) although the single market has existed since 1986, it has not yet been achieved. we will postpone the deadline for 2003 because of the enlargement of the union to 10 new member states, which will take us further away from this objective. the difficulty lies more in the drafting of a comprehensible and workable text than in the success of unanimous or majority adoption of a directive. the number and importance of the details makes the number of disputes and infringements of the text multiply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. instead of raising new ambitions, it would be better to call the commission to order, which is not showing good will but bad faith when it comes to assessing the impact of the liberalization of public services. in the interest of uniformity in health care, the report says that a safeguard clause could be detrimental. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in fact, this report finds us at odds.
in writing. - we oppose the forest focus regulation and the redondo report for the following reasons. firstly, there is the lack of consultation between the actors on the ground - forestry, paper industry, etc. - who were unanimous in rejecting the european commission's proposal. secondly, we are concerned about the change in the legal basis. the forest will no longer be a matter for agriculture but will become a new component of environmental policy. are we moving towards a common environmental policy (cep) to destroy the cap? the definition of forest at community level is unrealistic, because it is too restrictive in terms of area, "with a tree cover of more than 10 per cent and an area of more than 0.5 hectares". virtually every grove of trees will fall within the scope of the regulation. moreover, given the diversity of land masses, geographical and climatic conditions in the union, there is no reason to include forestry in the eu's common policies. the commission wants to make the forest focus programme a supplementary regulation to the birds and habitats directives, which is unacceptable to us, given the difficulties in implementing and financing these two directives. finally, the commission is forgetting the primary function of forests in rural areas: economic development.
in writing. - in this resolution it was proposed to create a new budget to combat the mortality of women in poor countries during pregnancy and childbirth. we supported this initiative despite its limitations. this new budget line is not accompanied by new financing. the money needed will be taken from the existing budget. we are asking for this aid to be paid out of the budget in the form of aid to enterprises, because whatever the pretext for this aid, it is not to save jobs, which are still being destroyed on a massive scale throughout europe, but in fact to enrich the shareholders a little more.
in writing. - i voted for this report even though i had some differences of opinion, or even approach, on certain points. the european parliament has indeed managed to resist the reactionary pressures of the fundamentalist right wing.
in writing. - it is difficult to understand what made the sandbæk report such a bone of contention: the need to improve health services and infrastructure in the countries concerned could easily be the subject of a real consensus. but there is a terrible doubt about the real intentions of the rapporteur and the commission in regard to the use of abortion, which is therefore financed by the european taxpayer. the fact that such a measure is envisaged makes it legitimate, whereas there are very different and, above all, irreconcilable views on this subject. to engage at community level in a policy which is rejected by some of our member states, in other words to impose at european level choices which our respective peoples are reluctant to accept or even hostile to, is unworthy of a democratic environment. as for the so-called compromises made by the competent parliamentary committee, one could hope for better than a suspicious accumulation of unsaid words which conscientiously dismissed all attempts to bend the text in the sense of dignity, that is to say, of a compatibility between women's health and the lives of children. we are thus reduced to a caricature of a vote for or against, and we choose to adopt a simple precautionary principle by voting against this report.
in writing. - the community's policy of cooperation and development is designed to promote the sustainable development and economic expansion of developing countries, their integration into the world economy and the fight against poverty. the achievement of such an objective, if we do not forget the obvious correlation between poverty and the absence of reproductive and sexual rights, requires the establishment of a community instrument to support policies and actions relating to reproductive and sexual health and rights. it seems to me clear that one of the results of development is a lasting improvement in the health and well-being of people. it is therefore urgent to support the women in these countries, who represent 99% of the 600 000 women who die every year as a result of pregnancy, and to help and inform couples through modern family planning to determine freely and responsibly the number of children they want: every year, in fact, one third of pregnancies are unwanted or unplanned. this situation leads women to resort to unsafe abortions and causes many deaths - 78,000 a year.
in writing. - it is good that the european union is helping developing countries to take care of their health. however, aid does not mean that our european models are adapted to countries with different cultures and traditions. it is morally unacceptable to make our aid conditional on the denial of the identity of the peoples and the forced adoption of our conception of family planning. furthermore, it is unthinkable to construe abortion as a new form of contraception. that is what this report is leading to, even if mrs sandbæk is defending herself against it. abortion is a crime that kills the child and destroys the mother. by offering women abortion as their only option, instead of helping them, we add to their difficulties with further trauma. that is why i support the amendments to develop a policy of welcoming and supporting mothers-to-be in distress, in order to support them in their choice of maternity. this will enable them to receive the emotional and material help they need. that is why i shall vote against this report, which, far from helping the people in difficulty, will only add to their distress.
in writing. - the report by my colleague sandbæk has generated a great deal of debate and has sparked passions. however, this report contains only common sense amendments. reducing maternal mortality and promoting equal access to reproductive health and rights care and benefits are objectives that stem from the 1994 international conference on population and development (icpd) and which i strongly support. in many developing lands, women are fighting for reproductive rights and for controlled sexuality. for these women, this means the ability to freely choose the number of children they want to have and the staging of births. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. some colleagues, however, have wanted to deny these basic rights by proposing an alternative, namely support for maternity choices. this is a disguised denial of the right to abortion, which is a woman's inalienable right. for all these reasons, i have supported the sandbæk report wholeheartedly.
in writing. - this good report, which goes in the right direction, that is to say, that of realism against a reactionary ideology, was widely approved. that's a good thing! that is why i voted for it.
in writing. - all this talk about how best to kill properly or how best to wage war without killing civilians is itself surreal. it is even more so in the present context, where we know that the united states, with the openly displayed or hypocritical complicity of the great european powers, is preparing to launch, in the coming days, a war against iraq which, even if it ends in the fall of the dictator saddam hussein, will kill thousands of civilians. we, for our part, take this opportunity to express our protest against the imperialist war against iraq. we voted for the few passages which propose the banning of anti-personnel mines, knowing that these proposals are purely voluntary and will not be followed by any effect. but we voted against the whole text because, under the pretext of wanting wars 'in accordance with international law', it justifies past, present and future imperialist aggressions.
- the agenda calls for the commission's statement on the crisis in the steel industry and the measures to be implemented at community level. i call commissioner byrne to speak.
mr president, i think there is already a consensus in the first speeches: the commission's response or the commission's proposal, for the time being, is not up to the task. the increase in the number of restructuring operations, accompanied by social plans and redundancies, which have disastrous consequences, of course, for employees, but also for entire regions that are affected, is a matter of fact and regrettable. many sectors are affected, particularly the steel industry. it is said that the context of slowing growth is not favourable. it is true that the majority of firms use the argument that restructuring and closure of sites are necessary to cope with international competition. but the fact is, let us say, that the management of these companies is based on a mainly financial and not always industrial logic, far from it, in defining their strategy. their aim is to achieve maximum profitability, without regard to social or environmental consequences. this often leads to relocations to third countries where there are almost no rules in this area. you have referred to metaleurope. it is true that, even if it is the metallurgy and not specifically the steel industry, the example is instructive: this highly polluting company will eliminate thousands of jobs without assuming any social or environmental responsibility. but i think the situation raises the wider question of what ambitions europe intends to set for itself in the context of the drafting of a new treaty. will the european union accept such behaviour on the part of companies which, let us remember, have benefited greatly from european political aid? of course, you referred to existing legislation that must be enforced. however, i think that new measures must be taken to inform trade union organisations and works councils about the aid received. measures should also be adopted to oblige these companies to report on the use of the funds granted and to repay them in the event of non-compliance with the commitments made. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the steel industry, and that the commission should be consulted on the future of the steel industry. if we do not do this, commissioner, we are not moving towards a union of solidarity but towards a union of terrible oppositions between workers and citizens. while we are talking about social governance, we need even more legislation. i believe that new european legislation must be put in place to make it easier for companies operating in the union to assume their responsibilities. the commission and the member states must adopt a more proactive approach to industrial restructuring and its social impact. i think it's also a matter of ethics. in a europe which intends to defend the fundamental rights of its citizens, can we stand by while thousands of workers are thrown out onto the streets like mere commodities? the opposite approach is precisely what we need to promote for a new industrial dynamism in europe. employees must be given new rights within the company at all levels. of course, reference is made to the legislation on european committees. but i think that democratization of the boards would avoid many restructuring and liquidation measures imposed by management which are essentially driven by financial pressures and are far from meeting industrial requirements. in this sense, i think the union should force the companies concerned to take better account of the alternative proposals of the trade unions before any decision is taken.
- commissioner, you said that restructuring in the steel industry, but also in the metallurgical industry, is an old one. it's been going on for 25 years. what i would like to stress is the difference in nature that now exists in these restructurings. you know, 20 years ago, we downgraded entire territories, depriving workers of their jobs in the name of modernization, productivity. it was extremely painful, but there was a sense of understanding a certain evolution, rightly or wrongly considered necessary, and so one felt detached from a story whose meaning one understood more or less. the problem we have today is that all this no longer makes sense, that is to say that we now realise that in restructuring it is the law of anything, and in particular the law of shareholders, that imposes itself in this way, in a brutal, wild, arbitrary, unforeseen way. these stories have no meaning, and the fact that they have no meaning makes them utterly hopeless. that is, people are either revolted or totally desperate. and they are particularly desperate for europe, because all these restructuring are taking place on this scale. and you have - as in the case of the arcelor group - this kind of ping-pong game: i close here, i buy elsewhere, in poland in this case for this company. so, everyone feels like they're competing with everyone else. and i strongly insist on this. how can you expect citizens to give europe any credit or even to desire it if europe first appears to them as a field of warlike competition, with shareholders who are sometimes totally dishonest and who make the law? do we need to speak, since there are people here in this chamber who do not like the name of glencor, that crooked shareholder, being mentioned? can we leave industrial and economic development strategies, thousands of jobs in the hands of a crooked shareholder, who can run down the prestige, buy up profitable jewels within the metaleurope group, and leave a region in an unacceptable state of pollution? and i think we must also talk about the terrible pollution of the sites, the very serious damage to the health of the workers, their children and their families. who's responsible? who 's paying ? are corporations these predatory species that squeeze the lemons under the shareholder law and leave all the damage in the hands of the government? or does europe want to have the means to regulate all this and impose certain things? there are some very simple things to do. it is essential to strengthen the power of employees at european level. employees must be able to think, participate in company strategies, coordinate, fight their battles together. everyone here deplored the commission's lack of ambition in its statement. it's true she's unambitious, i'm not gonna say she isn't. but it must also be realized, ladies and gentlemen, that while the commission can say no to a merger in the name of a monopoly situation, of non-respect of competition law, it cannot say no to a restructuring which is carried out in defiance of legislation on information and consultation of workers. i would ask that this be considered in the debate on social europe in the convention. a newspaper recently carried the headline: 'the convention is destroying social europe'. let's think about all of this. do we want the people to lose all hope in europe? i want the commission to be able to say no to restructuring which is carried out in breach of european legislation. but it is not the commission that has not wanted to do so, it is our member states in the council that have chosen to reserve to themselves the legal and administrative means of imposing sanctions or not. how do you want this to work? i want the commission to have the power to say no to restructuring which violates the rights of workers, which disregards the environment and the requalification of sites. and that is, in my view, within the framework of the convention. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to put pressure on all your mainstream members in your groups, on all those with whom you have relations, to promote social europe. otherwise this europe will be hopeless and i ask you to believe that the citizens will not vote for it when they are consulted by referendum.
- the floor is now open to mrs boogerd-quaak, whose return to the house is a welcome one.
- mr president, the planned plant closures by arcelor are outrageous. the most powerful steel group in the world, collapsing under the weight of profits, coldly announced that it would close a total of six blast furnaces in belgium, germany and france, throwing thousands of workers out of work, condemning their families to poverty and ruining whole regions. the fact that such a decision can be taken in the secrecy of a board of directors, obeying the demands of a handful of financiers, shows how much the system you defend corresponds to the dictatorship of money. the fact that this can happen without even the reaction of the political authorities, except for a few hypocritical groans, shows how much the workers cannot rely on the authorities to defend them. we are told that periodic restructuring is inevitable in industry, but why is it always the workers who are made to pay for these restructurings, and never the shareholders or the owners of the companies? i know it's not just the steel industry. at the moment, in france, it is also the airline air lib that is closing its doors and laying off 3 200 people. air lib is not a steel company, but behind it, two years ago, was the same financial group, marine wendel, which made its fortune with the toil, sweat and blood of generations of steel workers. it is the shareholders of this group and their leader, baron sellière of the employers' union in france, medef, who, by withdrawing their capital, are responsible for the disaster of air lib. that is why i say to the workers, both in the steel industry and in air transport, and to those who are suffering from collective redundancies throughout europe, that we must fight to establish a balance of power which will enable the workers to impose the ban on collective redundancies, under penalty of expropriation. the profits of the companies, and if necessary the private wealth of their owners and shareholders, must be used to pay the wages of all the workers affected by the restructuring.
commission. – mr president, i have listened with great care and attention and interest to this crucial debate. one cannot but be moved by the strength and passion with which members of parliament have expressed their views on this unfortunate issue. a number of interesting ideas were developed throughout the debate and the commission will study all of them with great care. most of the points raised were dealt with in my introductory remarks and i will not go into detail on them now. let me underline again the basic principle according to which decisions on corporate restructuring are a prerogative of management, but also its responsibility. a wide consensus seems to exist in europe on the way to address crises resulting from the need for companies to adapt, from industrial change and from corporate restructuring. let me reaffirm again the importance of effective, timely and comprehensive information and consultation of workers' representatives. you have nevertheless expressed other types of concerns to which i would like to give you the commission's preliminary view. before i do that i would like to pick up one or two points that were made. there were references, for instance, to the european coal and steel community, and i was asked whether articles 3 and 5 have any application in these circumstances. it appears to be the case that articles 3 and 5 no longer have application because the ecsc is no longer operational. nor indeed are state aids possible. we all know that. there is no competence at eu level to deal with many of the issues that have been raised by honourable members in this debate this afternoon. i can only quote what mrs zrihen said in her contribution just a moment ago, when she said the legislative arsenal is insufficient. that is indeed the case. there is not a lot that can be done in many circumstances in relation to some of the issues that you have raised because of the very point that mrs zrihen has raised. i shall now deal with some of the issues you raised. firstly, with regard to the trade dispute in the steel sector between the usa and the eu, the commission is pursuing a very active line with regard to the unilateral measures taken by the us to protect its steel industry. those defensive measures include, besides intensive bilateral contacts with a view to solving the conflict, retaliation measures and using the wto disputes settlement mechanism. my colleague, commissioner lamy, is forcefully pursuing that particular issue. another issue that was raised in the debate was the issue surrounding the issue of enlargement. for the steel industry, as well as for many other industries, enlargement is above all a window of opportunity for them to develop their businesses in the interests of themselves and in the interests of their workers. there are issues related to compliance with standards in the new member states, notably in the social and environmental fields. those issues are, however, being dealt with through technical assistance to help their industries to adapt, as well as through the assurance that those new members will have to comply with the relevant community law from the date of accession. a number of members made reference to social funds and so on, and particularly to the free use of community funds, notably the european social fund, to support the training and professional reconversion of workers affected by restructuring. i should like to make a few points on that. after the expiry of the ecsc treaty, the only possibility lies in the european social fund and in interventions from the structural funds. the main goal in the long term must be the reconversion of local industrial activities. this will have a much greater impact on the regions than direct social aid to the employees, although some transitional measures can be considered. we should recall that aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty remains prohibited, in principle, for the iron and steel industry, as does any investment aid. the same rules apply to the countries applying for accession and with regard to new aid. there were also references to making public aid dependent upon the maintenance of employment. generally speaking, public aid to companies is already subject to those kinds of conditions. a number of the existing instruments specifically link the obtaining of state aid funds to the obligation to keep people employed during a minimum period. the guidelines on national regional aid make it clear that aid for job creation must be made conditional on maintenance of the employment created for a minimum period of five years. similarly, the commission regulation on state aid for employment contains provisions stipulating that such aid can only be granted if the employment is maintained for a minimum period of three years, or two years in the case of smes. continuous employment should also be granted to workers in the case of aid for the recruitment of disadvantaged and disabled workers. the structural funds regulations do not contain similar conditions, but it is clear that in so far as structural funds are used to cofinance state aid schemes, relevant obligations to keep people employed for a minimum period of time have to be respected. some reference was made to the alleged ambitions of one of the companies involved to make acquisitions in poland. possible acquisition by arcelor of certain factories in poland or other third countries would be the subject of a survey by the commission, pursuant to regulation 4064/89 on the control of concentrations between undertakings. the commission underlines that it only permits concentrations which are compatible with the common market. in its evaluation the commission comes to a conclusion only about the competitive aspects without intervening in the industrial policy of a private company. i should also say that the commission has no information to the effect that any such plans for acquisition by that company have been successful. finally, industrial change has economic implications and an impact on employment and social cohesion. however, it also provides opportunities when anticipated, prepared for and managed. dialogue, transparency, proper worker involvement, anticipation, risk prevention and the development of employability are the key elements of our european response to this phenomenon. let us do our best to build the instruments of a legislative or other nature which can promote these principles.
- thank you, chief. at the end of this debate i received four motions for resolutions. see minutes of the sitting. the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m. or immediately after the debate this afternoon.
- the agenda calls for debates on cases of violation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. i call mr ribeiro e castro to speak on a point of order.
- mr president, i understand the request made by your chairman of the delegation. i must, however, ensure that the rules of procedure are respected, which say in rule 146 that the intention to request the adjournment of the debate must be notified at least 24 hours in advance to the president who must inform parliament without delay. as this request was not received within the time limit, the vote will take place immediately after the end of the debate, in accordance with the provisions of our rules of procedure. i understand your request, but i must apply the rules of our institution.
- the motion for a resolution (doc. b5-0135/2003) by mr van den berg and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation in kazakhstan; - b5-0136/2003 by mr morgantini and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on human rights violations in kazakhstan and central asia; - b5-0143/2003 by mr maat and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on human rights in kazakhstan and central asia; - b5-0144/2003 by mr staes and mr isler béguin, on behalf of the green group, on the situation in kazakhstan; - b5-0147/2003 by mr di pietro, on behalf of the eldr group, on the situation in kazakhstan; - b5-0152/2003 by mr belder, on behalf of the edd group, on the situation in kazakhstan.
- mr president, both kazakhstan and tajikistan are authoritarian regimes or dictatorships where basic freedoms are violated, political activity is curbed and torture is still practised. we support the demands for respect for democratic rights and freedoms in these two countries and we condemn the executions that continue to take place in tajikistan. it must be stressed, however, that the failure of the kazakh regime to respect human rights, which the european parliament is about to denounce, does not in any way hinder the great oil trusts, which are competing for billions of dollars - 13 billion more than in russia - for the considerable energy reserves of kazakhstan, nor the construction groups, such as bouyges, which have gained considerable sums from the construction of the new capital astana. this means that these trusts, which are among the main pillars of capitalism in the western countries which claim to be democratic, are at the same time the pillars of dictatorships in central asia, the middle east and elsewhere.
- mr president, commissioner, unlike our colleague, we are pleased that today, with this resolution, the european parliament is looking at kazakhstan and, through it, at central asia. while it is true that certain regions of the world are the focus of the european union's attention, this vast and fragile subcontinent in transition, torn between russia and china, too often escapes our vigilance and our requirements. these countries are far from the union's eyes and thus far from its control. however, the signals coming from kazakhstan suggest more a return to soviet methods than a transition to the rule of law, democracy and a regime respecting human rights. how else can we interpret these cases of intimidation and persecution against journalists and opposition figures? what historical echo do the rigged or arbitrary trials recently inflicted on such figures as mrs petrushova or mr abbyazov and mr zhakiyanov evoke? and does the fact that these phenomena are increasing not suggest more a rehabilitation of the previous authoritarian regime than the inevitable upheavals of a transition to democracy? more than a decade after the collapse of the ussr, such avatars or alibis are intolerable. while there are still reservations about the european union's vigilance in relation to these central asian republics in recent years, the european union must now show real firmness in promoting its principles and values in this region of the world. tomorrow, some of the former soviet republics will join our union. the union already today concentrates a leading economic and industrial force in europe and the world. it must use it as a political lever to break the undemocratic regimes in these third countries which are so eager to get community investment. we obviously have the means to exert pressure on kazakhstan and the countries of this region of central asia, which, in the face of globalisation and the enlargement of the european union, are no longer, and should no longer be, beyond our horizon. we have the power and the duty to bring the actual situation in kazakhstan into line with the conventions, the international treaties and, above all, the european union-kazakhstan partnership and cooperation agreement. i would like to make the case here to our institution that the case of the kazakh journalist sergey duvanov, as was the case here with professor baudajevski of belarus or mr chbih ould cheikh melainine of mauritania, should be the basis for the european union's assessment of political developments and human rights in kazakhstan.
commission. – mr president, over the past years, democratic conditions in most of the countries of central asia have deteriorated. however, the commission understands why the focus of parliament’s attention in this debate is on kazakhstan. once considered one of the ‘hopefuls’ in the region, the past two years have seen a crackdown on political opposition and critical media. especially hard hit were those who had the courage to criticise corruption at the highest level, involving the president and his family. the commission agrees that the court cases on corruption charges against mr ablyazov and mr zhakianov, the two leaders of the opposition movement democratic choice for kazakhstan, had every appearance of being politically motivated. the commission has furthermore viewed with great concern the campaign of intimidation that has been going on against a great number of critical media in kazakhstan. this has included the firebombing of offices, the vandalising of transmitter equipment with a machine gun, a decapitated dog nailed to a newspaper office door and physical attacks against individual journalists. the perpetrators of these crimes have never been apprehended, and many cases have simply been closed. a number of newspapers, furthermore, have been subject to judicial proceedings, endless tax and safety inspector visits and heavy fines, in a number of cases resulting in closure. the commission also agrees that the recent court case against mr duvanov on rape charges was marred by grave irregularities. we therefore strongly believe that the trial should be reviewed. it is against this background that president nazarbaev’s recent statements that kazakhstan will seek its own pace of democratisation – to be achieved by 2030 – and that western standards should not be automatically applied to kazakhstan, are to be met with due caution. president prodi underlined our deep concern over kazakhstan’s recent democratic record during the president’s visit to brussels on 29 november 2002. on the other hand, it is important to take a number of positive developments in kazakhstan into consideration as well. prisons have been transferred from the ministry of the interior to the ministry of justice, and we hope that pre-trial detention facilities will soon follow. a law on the humanisation of prison conditions has been passed and a serious effort seems to be being made to implement prison reform. kazakhstan, as well as other countries in central asia, has also established the post of human rights ombudsman, although much remains to be done in terms of strengthening their mandates and facilities. a 'standing council' for further democratisation and development in civil society was approved by presidential decree on 29 december 2002. it is to be hoped that its recommendations, for example those on the law on political parties, will be followed up. the commission notes that parliament’s resolution focuses on kazakhstan only. the commission believes, however, that the matter of human rights in kazakhstan is to be viewed in its regional context. it cannot be denied that there has been a crackdown on non-governmental media and opposition in kazakhstan. but the commission does not believe that the state of democracy and human rights in kazakhstan – nor, for that matter, in kyrgyzstan or tajikistan – is beyond repair. we believe that the eu can continue to have an impact on democratic conditions in these countries through critical but constructive dialogue under the partnership and cooperation agreements. we have deeper concerns regarding uzbekistan and turkmenistan, on which parliament’s resolution remains silent. uzbekistan has no independent press, whereas turkmenistan has no press at all worthy of the name. opposition parties do not exist in these two countries. kazakhstan and kyrgyzstan have been under the close scrutiny of human rights watchdogs for some time now because of the deterioration in democratic conditions. this scrutiny has certainly been justified. but let us not forget that in uzbekistan, and certainly in turkmenistan, for years there has been no democracy at all left to deteriorate. in these countries, any opposition activist, critical journalist or simply any muslim practising his belief, risks ending up in a torture chamber, a penal colony or on death row on charges of terrorism, religious extremism or an attempt on the life of the president. opposition and civil society in kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan and, to an extent, tajikistan, are under pressure, but this has, at least so far, not made them less resilient or vocal. through constructive dialogue and targeted support, the eu can still make a difference in these countries.
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
- the next item is the debate on the following six motions for resolutions on venezuela: - b5-0134/2003 by mr salafranca sánchez-neyra and mr fernández martín, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation in venezuela; - b5-0137/2003 by mr miranda and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on venezuela; - b5-0141/2003 by mr van den berg and others, on behalf of the pse group, on the situation in venezuela; - b5-0146/2003 by mr frassoni and others, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on the situation in venezuela; - b5-0149/2003 by mr sanders-ten holte and others, on behalf of the eldr group, on the situation in venezuela;
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that is precisely what we must not do. what my colleague has just said is the opposite of what is required in such cases. i think we made a big mistake. it is one thing to acknowledge the human rights violations in zimbabwe, but it is quite another to help the opposition and do everything possible to bring about democracy. finally, the tightening of sanctions proposed by my colleague is inappropriate in a country which is being undermined by famine and pandemics, because these sanctions will not affect mr mugabe, but the people. i still think that the serious mistake we made was precisely to cancel the acp-eu joint assembly. when belgium grants visas to nationals of a country, when the delegates concerned are present, when others are at that time entitled to attend a meeting, and when we authoritatively and unilaterally refuse them access to this building, we deprive ourselves of the possibility of being able to adopt a resolution condemning what is happening in zimbabwe together, both african and european. instead, we have strengthened all those who support mr mugabe. we gave him a great publicity ! what is not serious is that you said that france has no right to forbid a man from participating in a franco-african summit where he has his place because, precisely, this would allow us to tell him what we think in front of him. if we want lasting peace in this region, if we do not want discrimination and violence against the poorest to increase even more in these countries, we must involve the regional organisations, and in particular the african union, in our action. to do that, you have to sit down with them and talk to them. what you are doing is forgetting the colonial past of a country in which, today, there is violence against white farmers, but also, now, there is a cost, it must be admitted, of that colonial past where, for years, the vast majority of the black population did not have access to land, while today the country is undergoing land reform. so it is not by trying to go after mr mugabe that we will solve the problems, but by all of us sitting around a table, and i totally disagree with you and your method.
in writing. - arlette laguiller spoke on behalf of all of us and expressed her opposition to the closures and layoffs envisaged by arcelor. the only way to stop the financial groups from acting is to ban mass layoffs and to ensure the wages of workers by taking the funds from the profits. the compromise text, which is limited to a few protectionist measures and additional regulations which employers will not comply with anyway, does not propose any concrete measures to protect workers. we are not in a position to endorse this text. we did not vote against it because it gives the trade unions some additional powers and we did not want to oppose it. but the redundancies are no more justified if they are accompanied by consultations with the trade unions.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we must be very careful. if the letter we have just received today, or this memorandum, call it what you will, it is true, there are real problems, very serious problems. the committee responsible must then discuss it first, and depending on what it says, parliament must submit a proposal for a report, especially since we will be having a debate on discharge at the next partsession. i do not see why we should debate a matter without first discussing it in the committee responsible and i think that there is really enough of it to work at the pace of so-called journalistic discoveries. parliament is not at the mercy of journalists and parliament must have its own dynamic, otherwise we would end up putting anything on the agenda. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, the facts are very simple. either the security council votes on tuesday night, or it votes on wednesday, or it votes on thursday. that is, either he votes before us or he votes after us. if he votes with us, i think it is important that there should be a vote in the european parliament asking the states represented in the security council to say no to the resolution proposed by britain, spain and the united states. in other words, i think it is important that there should be a vote by the representatives of public opinion and the peoples of europe asking for the logic of war to be rejected by means of a vote in the security council. (to mr pannella, who tried to interrupt him: oh la la, pannella, really! at least you were born in 1938 and i wasn't. that's the only difference, and i'm assuming that's the logic of your age, otherwise it's not very smart what you just said. that's not very clever!) moreover, if the security council votes before us, i think that the european parliament will have to take a position on that vote. so, in any case, as the voice of the european peoples, we will have to take a position on wednesday on what is to be decided or has been decided. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, for reasons probably slightly different from those of mr poettering, my group is also not in favour of a resolution because - not in december, mr poettering, but on 30 january - we have already adopted a resolution which says very clearly that the majority of parliament is opposed to armed action without a un resolution. so that resolution is still valid today. if the situation were to change, it is obvious that the situation would change for us as well. moreover, according to our information, the vote in the security council will take place in any event before we can have time to intervene in his place.
mr president, i would like to denounce here, on behalf of my group, the european united left/nordic green left, the indignity of the repression inflicted on the dockers in front of this house. we believe their protest is legitimate and we support it. it should be noted that the draft directive they are criticising is aimed at nothing more or less than reducing wages and, therefore, allowing the hiring of staff from outside the ports to do the work for them. that means the destruction of their status, the destruction of their profession, the destruction of their jobs, and we would like them to come with flowers before the european institutions! i find this police repression unacceptable ! we must listen to them, we must hear them and we must revise the draft directive accordingly. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, i would simply like to say to my colleagues that i am a little surprised. they complain, on the one hand, in brussels that they have no security and that they are sometimes attacked. here, where every measure is taken to ensure your safety, you are not satisfied. you should be logical anyway ! (applause from the right)
- mr president, i wanted to draw your attention and that of the whole parliament to the problem of two women, maria and natacha illiasova, who have been in prison in tallinn, estonia, since the summer of 2001. we have had several cases against estonia, the commission in tallinn, because these women are in prison because a businessman was murdered by two professional killers. we believe they ordered this murder. the only witness is an estonian police officer who recused himself. but for more than 18 months these women have been in prison without trial, that is, without ever having had a public hearing. all their auditions were in the dark. the lawyers who have been appointed do not give any information about their case and do not tell them anything about their fate and the proceedings that are under way. mr president, could you please take steps to ensure that the law, the law as we understand it, we in this parliament, the right of man, the right of women, the right of the individual is respected in estonia for natacha and maria illiasova?
mr president, i would like to speak on the basis of rule 8 of our rules of procedure. the french law currently in force provides that any member of the european parliament elected to a post which places him in a situation of incompatibility, including that of president of a general council, shall cease to exercise his mandate as a result. the intention of the legislator to leave no time for appeal or option is clear, since it also provides for the case in which a member of the european parliament is placed in a situation incompatible with the exercise of a mandate and not of a function. in the case of incompatibility with a mandate, he considers the consequences of contesting the election, which he does not do in the case of incompatibility with a function. the letter and spirit of the law are clear: mr charles pasqua, if he could stand for election, would know the immediate consequences. since our last plenary session, however, charles pasqua, a member of our parliament, was re-elected president of the general council of the hauts de seine on 27 february. it seems that the competent authorities in my country have not notified you of the end of mr pasqua's term of office. mr president, as the guarantor of this institution, it is your duty to raise concerns with the competent authorities in my country about the consequences of this new situation, because mr charles pasqua, under french law, is no longer a member of the european parliament and we must take note of this vacancy.
- mr president, i would like to speak as a member of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, and perhaps take up what commissioner lamy said earlier. he said he was on the defensive side, and mrs. reding was on the offensive side. i seem to recall that your 1999 mandate for seattle was not only about preserving but also about promoting cultural diversity. so, as regards the promotion of cultural diversity, which is more difficult, although i thank you for the preservation, i am surprised that in the end only audiovisual services were chosen. but where are the cultural, recreational, sports services in this preservation? that'll be my first question. my second will go to commissioner reding. since you're being charged with the offensive by your neighbor, commissioner lamy, where are we on the treaty? we have concerns, we have concerns about the future treaty and what will happen to culture in it. the commitment to cultural diversity is an obligation, you both say, in the treaty. but we'd like to make it a better obligation, and you're the first to know. we would like to see article 151 (4) respected and put back in its proper place in the future treaty. let us now turn to another matter of concern on the offensive side which may also be within mr lamy's remit, namely the international instrument. you were both, like me, at that professional meeting about the instrument for cultural diversity in france, about a month ago. i know you are interested in this subject and i thank you for supporting this project. but i am sorry to see that most of my colleagues have abandoned, in the resolutions proposed today, the question of the international instrument, which is nevertheless supported by some 50 countries and which was proposed by president chirac to unesco with others. the feasibility study was carried out by a french-canadian group. it is sufficiently important and advanced that i am surprised that my colleagues are so uninterested in it.
mr president, commissioner, in matters of international trade, as in matters of war and peace, there is a european opinion, and more generally there is a universal opinion, and this opinion does not want, clearly does not want services - culture, education, health - to be put into the infernal machine of the world trade organization. that opinion exists, so why don't you take it into account? why, for the sake of a somewhat selfish pleasure, the selfishness of the commission, are you going to open this pandora's box from which nothing will come out, as we well know, but the disintegration of the european model and the way of life that our various nations have been building for their citizens for a century, a century and a half? in these areas, it is not international trade that creates wealth, but the strength of domestic markets, the strength of national citizenships, the strength of the creativity of the people themselves. so why go and open, i repeat, this pandora's box?
- madam commissioner, as you have noted, the gats negotiations are causing great concern in the countries of the european union and this movement is in many ways reminiscent of the one that was voiced at the time of the multilateral agreement on investment, the ami. the gats also contains provisions on investment. more generally, however, there is concern that the negotiations and their outcome will have an impact far beyond trade rules on the internal rules of wto member countries. when we talk, for example, about the water supply or the postal sector, not about cross-border mail but about the internal organization of the postal sector, it is clear that we are looking beyond international trade alone. this raises the question, for this agreement as for the trips agreement on intellectual property, whether the trade organization is not going beyond its legitimacy. the problem with this agreement is precisely that it puts everything on the same level: banking services, insurance services, but also water supply, energy, postal services, education and health, potentially. in this respect, it is europe's negotiating line which will make the distinction and indeed some areas will not be brought under the purview of the wto and its dispute settlement body. the first question i would like to raise is about protecting european public services because we have seen a dangerous shift in the last few months. the commission's position and statements were initially that there would be no liberalization offers for european public services. secondly, it was said that health, education and audiovisual services would not be the subject of liberalization offers. but european services, public services are much broader than that. and we do see that there are offers in the postal sector and that, subject to clarification and classification at the wto, there could be offers in the energy and water sectors. we therefore say to you that the commission must take a clear stance and exclude european public services from any liberalization proposal, which must be the responsibility of the member states, the council and the european parliament and not the responsibility of the trade organization. secondly, there is no automatic reciprocity, but there must be coherence and the union cannot, on the one hand, ask others to liberalise public service sectors and, on the other hand, think that the argument will not be returned to it. we have already made requests for liberalization, for example in the field of water, to countries such as tanzania, mozambique and bangladesh. i think we should not put that kind of pressure on developing countries. we must instead encourage cooperation, investment in the sectors where these countries need it, but within the framework of cooperation, leaving them in control of the rules they impose on foreign investors in environmental, social, etc. matters. thirdly, mr lamy, i think that what you have said about excluding public services by revising the agreement and article 1 (3) is not right. it would be enough to amend the paragraph which restricts the definition of government services to those which are not offered on a commercial or competitive basis and to say that wto member states are free to exclude their public services from this negotiation.
- mr president, in the style of a telegraph. the assessment of the impact of liberalisation is essential at the wto and eu level, not just at the member state level. a moratorium is not a good idea. liberalisation is strong bilaterally and, above all, developing countries frequently want it. progress has been made in terms of transparency but there is no forum at the wto and the european parliament has very little consultative power. the battle to defend public services has largely missed its mark. the threats of disintegration are in the european union where competition policy is inadequate and specific regulations are far too weak. the examination of pascal lamy's proposals shows that they are strictly confined to the internal choices of the member states and the union. let us not forget the priority of development and let us not speak for the south. that said, i would like to see whether our demands for liberalization take account of their needs for services of general interest and i would point out that the activity of multinational firms is not regulated. finally, there is a terrible asymmetry between rapid liberalisation and the lack of public, regional and global goods. when will there be a strategy for action by the european union?
mr president, this debate on the opening of negotiations within the wto to liberalize trade in services seems to us to be completely dead-end. not everything is on the table, first contacts are largely opaque. the commission is using a negotiating mandate dating from 1999 before seattle, which is now totally outdated. the national parliaments have not deliberated clearly and the european parliament is invited to endorse everything after hearing a brief statement from the commission. we are not against any liberalization, but it must remain under the control of the people concerned at all times. the peoples must always keep their hands free. but if we were to follow the commission's lead here, we would be engaged in a negotiation of vague contours which could seriously affect the control which people must have over their public services and over the whole of the safeguarding rules of their societies. of course, the commission assures us that no liberalization offers will be made by the union in the areas of health, education and audiovisual, and that it will negotiate to maintain cultural diversity. but these statements cannot be enough for us ! why these areas and not others? we know too well from experience the hidden mechanisms and pitfalls of this kind of treaty, which we only discover afterwards, when we have already signed it. mr commissioner, next thursday we will be debating in this house the closure of large companies due to relocations and the human tragedies they cause. if we want to avoid further human tragedies in the future, we must take the problems upstream. we must begin by avoiding signing today treaties like the gats that would tie our hands for the future. that is why we ask that these negotiations be postponed until a genuine public and democratic debate has been held, until all the implications of the gats have been clearly assessed. (applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, i do not think that the round of negotiations that is about to begin should call into question cultural diversity. culture, as defined by unesco, is the sum of the distinctive spiritual and material, intellectual and emotional features that characterize a society or social group. it includes, in addition to the arts and letters, lifestyles, fundamental human rights, value systems, traditions and beliefs. the right to culture is a fundamental human right. it is enshrined as such in the universal declaration of human rights. this cultural diversity must not only be defended but also supported and encouraged. this applies, of course, to all the member states of the union, but also to the developing countries, because cultural diversity is an integral part of the heritage of humanity. to avoid the risk that culture will one day be regarded as a commodity like any other, we must give it a new legal framework to exclude it from the negotiations on world trade. culture is not a commodity like any other. the wto cannot and should not be the venue for cultural debate. commissioner reding has recently stated that any conceptual discussion on cultural diversity and cultural policies which might take place in the wto must be strongly opposed, since the wto is not a competent organisation, nor is it mandated to deal with the substance of this matter. we therefore need to create a new binding international legal instrument, not only to support and promote cultural diversity but also to set the rules of trade in cultural goods and services. several ministers of culture agreed to draw up this instrument so that in future the states may have the means to determine, from a cultural point of view and in accordance with their own situation, the policies they need to ensure the preservation and promotion of cultural diversity. unesco is the most appropriate body to assume this responsibility. i therefore wish that this process will be completed as soon as possible.
in writing. - despite the good words of approval, the european parliament remains under-informed and, above all, under-consulted. we cannot exercise parliamentary control. what credit should be given to closed-door meetings with confidential documents? how can we accept this lack of democratic debate when neither the national parliaments nor the european parliament are involved? the commission is based on a general mandate from before seattle, which has now expired; the commission has no legitimacy to impose its choices. its aggressive approach, with its aggressive demands on third countries - particularly in the water sector - jeopardizes the option of genuine development of the needs of the people. the interests of multinationals, of "all trade" and of the logic of privatization must be contrasted with other values, such as the existence of strong public services, which are essential elements of social cohesion and equality. why is the assessment of the consequences of liberalisation so inaccessible? modernity lies in the ability of governments to guarantee fundamental rights and not in the eagerness to satisfy the financial markets. in order to avoid the irreversibility of the gats, i - like more than 150 french elected representatives - support the demands for transparency and the suspension of the negotiations.
mr president, this directive on the opening up of all port services to competition has already been debated here at first reading. everyone referred to it. the council has since made its position known: we are indeed faced with a liberal directive with, as usual, only one priority, namely cost reduction at the expense of all other considerations. even though the rapporteur, our colleague mr jarzembowski, has met a lot of people and has incorporated a number of proposals for improvement, the fundamental problem remains. there has been no real consultation of the parties concerned and of the trade union organizations, which, however, are aware of the needs in terms of safety for people and the environment and possess irreplaceable know-how. the fact that legislation is still being passed against the staff concerned was expressed here this afternoon in the form of a massive demonstration by the dockers. in this respect, i would like to join my group's chairman, francis wurtz, in his protest against the police's attitude towards them, which he found unacceptable: their protest was legitimate, he said, and in view of the destruction of their profession and their jobs, it was still impossible to imagine them bringing flowers to the european institutions. secondly, there has been no previous study of the effects of this liberalization, particularly on such important issues as employment, security and the environment. according to my colleague hatzidakis, liberalization is not an end in itself but a means of economic development. i'm waiting for the results. i am waiting for the balance sheets from this point of view on the other sectors. we've been waiting for them for a while. whatever amendments have been made, the text remains a liberal text. self-help in ports, whether we like it or not, will be tantamount to allowing social dumping, despite the few safeguards listed, with references to safety, the qualifications of personnel, and even the specificity of the navigating staff. this directive allows for the hiring of personnel from outside the port to do the work in place of the existing qualified personnel. the concept of self-help opens the door to insecurity, to the deterioration of working and employment conditions and environmental safety. this is all the more so since we are aware of the current practices of the commercial fleets, which have shown us that the balance sheet can be very heavy for the community. personnel such as dockers, in difficult conditions, carry out a very important economic mission, while maintaining safety. maritime services such as rowing and pilotage, although excluded from the directive, are universally recognised as services of general interest. i think all these sectors should be seen as partners in the goal of sustainable development. finally, in the meetings i had on the french coast about maritime safety following the damage caused by the prestige, all the maritime professionals insisted that maritime safety starts in the ports. i find the measures taken here after the prestige disaster and the decision to introduce self-help today to be totally contradictory. these are all reasons why my group continues to propose the rejection of the common position.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although this proposal for a directive has been substantially amended, it does not seem to me to be any more appropriate today than it was at first reading. the reasons for excluding piloting from the scope of that directive are, in my view, applicable to all technical services for the marine industry, since the quality of service and the safety of operations are inherent in each of those services. the aim of this text is to achieve fair competition, that is to say, to open up to competition those markets which are considered sufficiently profitable to be attractive, the efficiency and reliability of public services, which are nevertheless recognised, having little weight in comparison with the interest, or rather the interests, thus generated. self-help illustrates this liberal will which, despite a better defined framework, is not concerned with the optimal safety conditions currently ensured. who will be led to believe that the various operations currently carried out by qualified professionals can be carried out under the same conditions by unskilled staff in a totally fragmented way? the extent of the discontent of dockers demonstrating in brussels on friday and in strasbourg this afternoon illustrates their despair at seeing european institutions still so far removed from the realities and concerns of citizens and still sticking to their dogmatic positions. this is all the more unacceptable as it concerns areas of security. i will not repeat what some of my colleagues said in the previous debate, pointing out the negative examples of poorly prepared, imposed and therefore unpopular liberalisation. as with the erika and the prestige, it is not necessary to say that we did not know, that it was unlikely to happen. in the event of an accident, europe and its institutions will have to answer to our citizens.
- madam commissioner, i have to echo the position of the french socialists on this text, the examination of which began in confusion at the first reading. this is a hostile position for three main reasons. the first is that we consider that in the area of port policy, if we are to be consistent with the objective of sustainable mobility proposed in the white paper, the problem of competition in ports is certainly not the most relevant and urgent approach. the problems of land use planning, the north-south balance and the congestion problems of the pas-de-calais in particular are all present. the commission seems to us to be failing to respond to this and to be showing a willingness which we consider to be somewhat indecisive in liberalizing port services. secondly, while we agree with competition, it must be on a fair basis. the commissioner said earlier that there was a one-to-three ratio between the prices recorded in the various european ports. this is probably true, but it is mainly because social conditions are radically different and in the absence of social directives, collective agreements and harmonized statutes, we are going to see what we see in road transport for example, i.e. competition through social levelling rather than fair competition. we are not therefore setting up a competition - and the dockers have sensed this - but a hellish machine to bring down prices and wages. thirdly, we are very much against the way in which self-help is being introduced. why would you do that ? mr hatzidakis asked why everything should not be liberalized on the pretext that one sector had been liberalized. he knows very well that the maritime sector is probably the sector in which there is the most social piracy. we are concerned that self-help may be the cause of considerable social dumping and we ask the following questions: how can we ensure that national social standards are respected when they are not identical? who will control these social norms, how will we ensure that cosmopolitan crews - filipino, malay - from other countries respect social norms and fair competition with the dockers of the port? it is for all these reasons that we shall propose the rejection of the common position and it is for all these reasons, no doubt, that the dockers have expressed their distress.
mr president, the competition and the race for profits which you want to introduce into the management of port facilities are already practised in maritime transport. this has led to ecological disasters, with the erika and the prestige, and this has resulted in the employment of seamen for wages ten times lower than european wages. when you talk about reducing the costs of port services, we know what you mean by that: lower wages, job cuts, increased workload, the abolition of social and wage protections contained in collective agreements. we are therefore against this european directive and we are asking that ports and port facilities, which are useful to society as a whole, be a public service. we reject the idea of putting dockers in competition with each other on the basis of status or origin, because that would be to the detriment of everyone. all those working in ports must enjoy the same wage and protection conditions, aligned on the most advantageous situation. as regards the dockers who demonstrated outside the parliament under siege, where they were met by water cannons and tear gas, i would like to ask you, mr president, madam commissioner, to give us the assurance that the demonstrator who was arrested this afternoon, obstructed in the courtyard of the european parliament, has been released.
mr president, the commission has proposed a legal framework guaranteeing respect for the rules of competition and economic freedoms in order to allow free access to the market for port services. in principle, the initiative is a good one, but in view of the maritime disasters that europe has experienced in recent years, you will agree that it is necessary to ensure that the regulations adopted meet the requirements of maritime safety. it is therefore important that the adopted text considers port services in the light of their specific nature. at first reading i tabled two amendments to exclude piloting and management services from the scope of the directive. these were voted by our assembly and i welcome that here. at second reading, our rapporteur, mr jarzembowski, again proposed that the piloting service be excluded from the scope of the directive, and this proposal was not taken up by the council. i therefore ask that we vote in favour of excluding piloting from the scope of the directive, in order to be consistent with our vote at first reading, and also so that pilots can continue to contribute to the protection of the environment and safety in community ports. as regards the exclusion of shipboard sealing, i think it would be preferable not to liberalize this service, which is also one of the players in port security. the opening up to competition would be, to a lesser extent, more acceptable to the relevant services if certain points of the directive were reworded, such as self-help. if self-assistance is chosen, the shipowner must ensure that it is provided throughout the operation. we must avoid enacting regulations that allow a system to be created by hand. i therefore urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of amendment no 13, which aims to limit self-assistance to seafarers.
commission. - (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking you for all the arguments and all the reflections and discussions, including those rejecting the commission's proposal. i think it is important that we can debate this and that they can make their arguments. the fact is that there are some points i would like to clarify because, after hearing some of the things that have been said here, it seems that we are talking about different texts. firstly, as a general question, do we want or do we not want a competitive transport system in the maritime sector which can be integrated into an intermodal network and which can be an alternative to road transport? - yes or no? second, this is where we get into full ideology. some of you think that monopoly is the ideal situation. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that in principle, when you can bet on healthy competition, it is much better than a monopoly situation. this is an ideological issue above all. all of which said, the facts seem to point more in one direction than the other. it is true that there are elements, areas, market segments which, for lack of size, do not allow for the existence of several operators. but when there's competition, things work better. there is better quality of service, better prices and costs, and more competitiveness. ladies and gentlemen, our airline industry, as has been said a moment ago, does not seem to have collapsed because we have introduced competition. this parliament wants to introduce competition in the rail transport sector and has voted for it by a majority. it is also about introducing competition in port services in the large ports. ladies and gentlemen, they say this is the end of security and they tie this to the prestige. what does this have to do with the prestige? strictly nothing, your honours. it's not about that. i'm sorry, those are different things. besides, no one's asking for the security detail to be reduced. that is why, in the field of piloting, mooring, in all these types of terrain, specific and special precautions are put in place, even in the hold. it is said that the port authorities, who are the best informed, can regulate the conditions, if necessary - it can be a certificate, it can be proven knowledge. we leave it to the port authorities to develop this aspect according to the best knowledge of the situation in each european port. i would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a proposal for transport in general and also for creating more jobs in our ports and for having more competitive ports, more active ports and ports that can contribute to the economic development of the european union. this is what i am doing, in effect, in transport, in ports, in the rest of the transport sectors, and in energy. this is simply what lies behind the spirit of lisbon. it is a matter of fundamental approach and what we are proposing here is the european model. i now come to the second point which has been raised, namely social dumping. ladies and gentlemen, no one wants social dumping. no one did. we want more work for more activity in ports and, in addition, with adequate social guarantees and conditions. the european model is precisely that of introducing competition while maintaining standards and social guarantees. that is the european model, which is regulated liberalization, which is not genuine liberalization. because liberalization and regulation seem to be contradictory in principle, and yet in europe we are able to combine the two elements: the advantages of the market with the guarantees of a system of solidarity. and that is what we are doing, your honours. i would read two things to your lords. one, what do you mean by self-handling? what is self-help? article 9 says that self-service is the situation where port services can be provided for the company or for oneself using regular staff, not temporary staff or staff taken for the specific action, but 'own fixed staff based and landed and/or embarked'. the key is we're talking about regular personnel. but i would remind you, in addition to the regular staff, that article 13 (2) says that national rules on employment and social standards are binding and that social dumping is not allowed. ladies and gentlemen, please read what is left at the end of this text. because the text to me is clear and meridian. i think we should look at what we're doing. we are not trying to lower safety standards, or to engage in social dumping, or anything of the kind. with these fears that your honours have of liberalizations, for example ryan air or virgin would not work, we would all be in a state monopoly, and i think more than one of your honours benefits from ryan air and virgin. i'm with you. let's see if we can agree. and that is why we have not downgraded air safety in europe. let's not say what it's not, please. i understand that there has been a protest outside this house. your honours are politicians. i'm with you. we should listen to everyone, but let's not say what it is not. no one is raising social dumping. we are talking, on the contrary, about ensuring social standards and employment requirements, and regular staff, not casual staff. if we limit it to only the on-board staff, that's where, on the contrary, i think we're getting it wrong. i think we should consider the regular ground staff as well. the third element which the honourable members have reiterated is that of competition between ports. this is, of course, competition between ports. what we have to do is to make sure that competition is not unfair. and i agree with the honourable members and the rapporteur, mr jarzembowski, in particular. in this connection, with regard to amendment no 10, let us see if we can find a formula which can clarify it even more, within the limits and margins set out in the treaty, which we obviously cannot change in the context of this text. finally, the question of opportunity raised by mr savari. he said we should do everything but this. the problems of the maritime sector, maritime safety, this house has worked hard, as has the commission and the council, to improve maritime safety and we know, and the honourable members know perfectly well, that if the rules we proposed had been in force, we could very well have avoided the last accident. there is still more that can be done and we will do it. but let's not say we started with the ports because that's not true. the other way around. we're almost done with the ports. we have a very serious transport problem in europe and we must look for alternative solutions to road transport and rail transport, that is to say, land transport. in an enlarged europe, where we are widening the distances, the maritime sector has much more opportunities and much more meaning in doing european cabotage. but to make european cabotage and to be really competitive with other transport systems, in particular land transport, we need efficient port services. and that is what we are aiming at, once again, introducing competition in the large ports - i insist - in a regulated way, by giving social guarantees and by giving security guarantees. that is simply the european model. (applause) i would like to thank
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the following shall be considered as a written declaration:
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive on the promotion of the use of biofuels in transport (12695/1/2002 - c5-0585/2002 - 2001/0265 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs ayuso gonzález).
the commission - (es) mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs ayuso gonzález, once again for her work, the committee and all the members, and to say that we are discussing today - and i hope that you will support it with your vote - a text which is important. it is important because, as mrs rothe has said, it is not enough to make statements of principle. it is not enough to say that 12% of our energy has to be renewable, we have to take the steps to make that true. i confess that i like, when i make a promise, to keep it. the promise had been made by others. i am trying to take steps to make that promise, that agreement, that commitment that was made by all the countries in this parliament and in the council, of 12% renewable energy, a reality. i think that is a very important measure, along with the provision on green electricity. it is not perfect, we would all have liked to have binding targets, but i think the commitment made in this proposal is reasonable, and it puts considerable pressure on all the member states of the union to actually achieve what has been said here. in the transport sector there are very few measures we can take to reduce co2 emissions, this is one of them and, with your support, i hope we can get it through quickly, along with the supplementary taxation, which is key to making it really work.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
- oral question (o-0003/2003 - b5-0084/2003) by mr stevenson, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the socioeconomic crisis in the white fish sector. (if the author is not present, the president shall give the floor to the commission first)
mr president, there must be no ambiguity about the objective pursued by the drastic measures proposed by the commission and endorsed by the council on the north sea cod stock. the aim is to restore stocks in a sustainable way so as to preserve as many jobs as possible in the fishing communities that have long been fishing for whitefish, which must be compensated temporarily and fairly and not permanently reconverted. but to achieve this objective, we must go beyond these draconian measures to limit fishing days. it is imperative that we learn from the canadian experience, which we must study with the greatest care. the moratorium imposed in the north atlantic for the past 12 years has unfortunately not had the desired effect: the cessation of fishing has had no influence on the state of cod stocks off newfoundland, nova scotia and the gulf of st. lawrence; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. canadians now recognize that fishing is just one factor in the evolution of the resource. other factors play a decisive role and need to be studied much more closely and taken into account as much as fishing: climatic factors, changes in water temperature, the importance of natural mortality, the significant sampling carried out by seals whose population is exploding, as well as by mackerel and herring which are proving to be large consumers of cod eggs. it also appears that in canada fishermen have not been sufficiently involved in the preparation and management of recovery plans. if we are to have any chance of success, it is therefore essential to define quickly a framework in which local experience and scientific expertise can be constantly confronted and not be limited to fishing bans, to keeping boats at the dock, as if this alone would automatically result in the replenishment of stocks. this rudimentary means of action must be urgently and rapidly supplemented - and financial resources must be made available for this purpose - by in-depth multifactorial analyses including the effects of the fishing industry, which will make it possible to implement a much more elaborate management policy and thus to preserve as much as possible what must remain our primary objective: the future of the fishing communities concerned.
the commission. - mr president, madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am happy to be able to discuss these matters with the committee on fisheries. i would just like to point out right now that we have to think very carefully about this, because you know that the funds available under the fisheries structural fund are very limited, and if we start by setting aside money for emergencies, then of course that money is not available for the normal programme, and that could then ultimately lead to us leaving money, so to speak, unused, because we can hope that in the future we will not just be dealing with a chain of disasters, but on the contrary that we will be able to deal with the matter with these replenishment plans. we shall be dealing with this matter in great detail this year and there will also be proposals to parliament for additional recovery plans. but as i said, this is certainly a question worth exploring, and i'm happy to do so. perhaps we can have an informal debate on this subject in the committee on fisheries, on the basis of a sort of non-paper.
- thank you very much, commissioner, for that supplementary reply. at the end of this debate i have received a motion for a resolution on behalf of the committee on fisheries. the vote on this resolution will take place at 12 noon on wednesday. documents received: see minutes.
- i declare the 2002-03 annual session closed and remind you that, in accordance with the provisions of the treaty, the european parliament will meet tomorrow, tuesday 11 march 2003, at 9 a.m. (the sitting was closed at 10.29 p.m.) the next item is the report (doc.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on the commission's legislative programme and work for 2003 under the gue/ngl, i said on 18 november 2002 that i did not see how anyone could be against the political priorities set out, but i added that there was a deep gap between the objectives and the means employed, which led to growing dissatisfaction among the public and the risk of rejection of the european idea itself by those who, like me, want a european europe. four months later, after reading the commission's lengthy communication and listening to president prodi and speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl, i would be tempted to say the same thing, except that today's catalogue document is much more watered down. he has an optimism that i would call blissful, and worse, i find it largely out of date and needlessly drowned in evidence. the commission's mandate expires in 2004, there will be european elections and the election of 732 members, and enlargement will take place on 1 may subject to completion of the ratification process. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, world peace is seriously threatened and the un is in danger of losing its credibility. the member states are divided between those who favour peace and those who favour war, blindly following the united states and seeking a balanced european position. the economic crisis and recession are in full swing, unemployment is on the rise again with thousands of people being made redundant, insecurity in all its forms is growing at the expense of the weakest and, in the face of these deadly challenges, the first two of which were mentioned this morning by president prodi, we are told in the written communication about new forms of governance, stability, a new economic and social agenda, quality of life, border security and even registration and road taxes for private vehicles. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, not all the members of my group are europeans, to say the least, but they are realists. the vast majority of them, starting from the fact that europe exists today, demand at least that it be a civic, democratic, social europe, not subject to the dictatorship of the economy, in order to respond to the real problems of european citizens. i am therefore sorry to have to tell you, mr prodi, that not only do we disagree on the ideology behind your proposals, but worse still, these proposals, even in the case of this ideology, do not respond very well to the major challenges that lie ahead. that is why, mr president, with all due respect, i ask you to review your copy.
- ladies and gentlemen, mr prodi, in addition to the commission's strategy for 2004, we are discussing budgetary and economic guidelines today. in the face of an extremely tense economic and social climate, i am surprised by the optimism of the commission's communication and, to put it bluntly, exasperated by the way in which the debate is being approached. i could have written paragraph 2 of the draft resolution on the state of the european economy which 'calls on the european leaders at the next spring economic council to avoid any self-satisfied, vague speeches' and i will vote on it tomorrow. but it's also the only part of this debate that i'm comfortable with. the commission's lyrical outbursts on the most competitive european economy, the knowledge society and the new governance are far from being matched by disappointed expectations for growth and employment despite the repeated promises of the single market and the euro. this is shocking and inexplicable. perhaps mr prodi can explain why the commission is making this speech when all the analyses of eurostat and the oecd are clearly pessimistic. the government of my country has also come to terms with reality, after having shown an exaggerated optimism which, ironically, the commission does not fail to reproach. it is even more shocking to see that, in the face of the evidence, the commission persists with enlargement and tries by all means to make the european union attractive. i found particularly inappropriate the advertisements in maltese newspapers announcing the amount of aid that the country will receive if it joins the union. i also had this unpleasant feeling when i read this passage from your strategy for 2004: ' in this context, the present commission wishes to lay the foundations for the successful enlargement of europe. in this context, it states that 2004 will see the achievement of the objectives it set at the beginning of its mandate.' this reminds me of another excerpt, five years old: 'the mandate of this commission has already been marked by progress in all these areas in order to prepare for the future and the confidence and the necessary assets.' this passage is worth reflecting on when we consider what has happened to the previous commission and the political objective of transparent and efficient management. it is up to you to prove to us that you are not going down the same path and that will not leave us much time to play world policeman.
- mr president, the commission is presenting today a communication on its annual political strategy which calls for several remarks. firstly, on the form: the very first paragraph states, and i quote: 'the political strategy adopted by the commission ... seeks to define the commission's political priorities and to ensure a good balance between the political initiatives and the corresponding resources'. that sentence can give the wrong impression. it gives the impression that the commission is a government adopting its political strategy. this is not the case: this communication is only a proposal which will have to be approved by the council, which alone has the power, under article 4 of the treaty on european union, to give the union its political impetus. i would also like to point out that the council is not here today, and i do not know what significance this absence should have. secondly, the priorities chosen are good, but there is a difference in philosophy between the first, enlargement and the functioning of the european union, and the second, stability at the frontiers. within the union, old and new members alike, there is a kind of community fundamentalism; in the relations with neighbours, on the contrary, flexibility and variable geometry are needed to offer differentiated cooperation frameworks. we believe that flexibility should prevail everywhere. president prodi has just repeated that in a europe of 25 we should eliminate unanimity and make qualified majority voting a general practice. we say that qualified majority voting will not work either if the right of veto of the national parliaments and the variable geometry are not accepted at the same time.
- madam president, when we consider what you, mr prodi, have called the state of the union and the budgetary guidelines which will have to follow from it, our choice, as you have also said, is to avoid two pitfalls. the first is to exaggerate our differences, the second is to dismiss them as insignificant. in order to build an external policy for the union, to give this enlarged union the means to defend its own values, let us not be afraid of debate and, if you allow me, ladies and gentlemen, let us speak, perhaps for the first time at this stage, about the financial resources which we must agree to start allocating for this purpose. as the rapporteur on the new architecture of european security and defence policy, which will be voted on in committee at the end of this month, i am pleased to have this opportunity to bring this subject up without delay, as i was pleased with the information and signals received in recent weeks from both the commission and the council. as regards the council, firstly, at its meeting on 27 january last, the general affairs council, in deciding to take charge of the military operation in macedonia, adopted at the same time the decision to establish an operational financial mechanism to cover the part of the corresponding expenditure which will have to be jointly financed by the european union. this is a completely new initiative which will certainly give a start to the credibility of the stated ambitions, which you have just so well recalled, mr prodi. it is now hoped that this instrument, which will be developed rapidly in agreement with parliament, will be extended to all future operations of the european union. as regards the commission, i note with equal interest the report on the recent meeting between you, mr prodi, and the greek minister of defence, giannos papantoniou, who is said to have proposed to you that a new line be included in the budget of the european union for the financing of defence research. this is precisely one of the new proposals which should be approved by a majority of my colleagues in the committee on foreign affairs in the next few days. may i ask you, mr prodi, how you yourself received this proposal and how soon it could be put into effect? in conclusion, madam president, mr prodi, if the union does not have the necessary institutional, operational and financial resources, it will be condemned to permanent marginalization on the international scene. i am sure that this is not what the majority of our fellow europeans want.
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to answer briefly some of the questions, which are extremely interesting. i am sorry that most of the members are not here; i am glad to see mr elles here, and i am therefore answering him first and foremost, since he has raised some fundamental questions. first, he raised the question of whether this perspective is only for five or seven years. we don't have the ability to decide, so we left the option wide open. i am personally in favour of a five-year perspective, both because it is in line with the work of parliament and because a seven-year perspective seems to me too long, it seems to me to be beyond any capacity for control and even intuition of the future. the honourable member also raised the question of the number of commissioners. now, the problem is not the number, but the power of organization and choice that is given to the president. the number may be small or large: the problem is how to organise the commission's work. it can be handled well with a small number of commissioners and also with a large number. as regards staff and the translation service, we have made a real effort to keep the number of staff recruited for enlargement to a minimum. mr elles raised a number of other problems which i think it is important to take up. he raised, for example, the problem of the shortcomings in the chapter on external relations, especially the atlantic partnership. i have put at the very beginning of my speech one of the two mistakes to be avoided, namely not understanding the importance of the transatlantic partnership, and i have put it on purpose because i consider it a decisive fact. the 'peace' group, which is chaired by commissioner lamy, is also concerned with this. more specifically, there are two fundamental dimensions of external relations: the regional one wider europe, the project we are approving today and the one which concerns the world, covering primarily and fundamentally transatlantic relations. reform of the commission has been a priority from the start and, from 2004, we will have a completely new staff regulation. it was a huge effort: we have a qualification process involving all the institutions; today we're discussing the spa. we have completely transformed financial management and we have a new management with a very strong increase - this is of vital importance for our future - of the powers and responsibilities of our officials; we also have a new control and we are working on this accounting system, as you know, mrs elles. since you mentioned the letter, now that i know it exists, i have no hesitation in making it public at once, because these things must be known. on the other hand, however, we must realize that if we do go to disciplinary proceedings, all the rights of those involved in the proceedings must be respected. this does not mean that the letter should not be published immediately. as for the famous unanswered questions: i must control, do everything i can to control, with all my resources and as quickly as possible. i should point out, however, that the fact that 400 questions - as you said, mr president - are unanswered perhaps means that there are too many questions. i take the blame for the slowness of some of the replies, but i think we also have a fire in the queue of questions that are extremely important. i would also like to touch on the point raised by mr clegg on better regulation, because it is linked to these issues. we are close to an agreement, but i have to say that i have the impression that parliament is less interested today than it was some time ago. i want to use this opportunity to push for an agreement at the interinstitutional summit on 19 march. i would formally encourage the presidency of parliament to seize this opportunity and to be ready to conclude politically next week. the commission is quite prepared to do so. mr morillon asked for information on the budget line and defence research. we are considering the possibility of financing military research outside the sixth research plan, but we do not yet have a definitive answer on this issue. i raised the possibility of a debate; i think it's worth discussing and we'll come up with solutions as soon as possible. the last answers concern the questions raised by mr swoboda, namely the speech, which he said was indefinite, on the objectives, the balkans and the mediterranean. the commission has presented - and today completes its presentation - a very precise plan with a clear policy which considers the balkan countries to be part of europe. they will be members of the union, but with the same strict rules as those applied to the countries of this first enlargement. there is no discount; the door is open when they come in, but it'll only be when they're ready. this is a totally fixed point. i agree with what mr swoboda said about the problem of visa policy, which he called dull, not because we should not be strict in protecting the union's borders, but precisely because i believe that it is a policy that requires complete modernisation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the visa system is not disrupted, and that the visa system is not disrupted. finally, the last remark made by mr caudron: the commission has shown an untimely optimism in its report; we're in a very difficult situation where everything is falling apart. now, let it be clear that we are profoundly aware of the difficulty of the situation, of the tragic moment in which we are moving, but we are also aware of the enormous importance of maintaining a balanced policy, which takes account of all the circumstances, of the need to give high consideration to the work of the united nations, of the fact that the new policy really requires stronger international institutions supported by all, and europe has an irreplaceable role in this respect. i believe that we may be facing a very serious crisis in the coming weeks, but i am firmly convinced that this crisis will highlight the irreplaceability of the european institutions. only europe has found its unity by making peace its top priority, by having and conceiving a new concept of national interest, linking it to the interest of the whole community, showing an openness to the countries that are close to us, i would say with a new understanding of the balances and problems of humanity. these facts cannot be ignored. of course, in a time of crisis like this, listening is not the most attentive we can imagine, but we know that we are sowing for the future. (applause) i would like to thank
- thank you, mr president of the commission. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0046/2003) by mr wynn, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the reform of the budgetary procedure: possible options with a view to the revision of the treaties [2002/2271 (ini) ].
- madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the main points of the report by our chairman of the committee on budgets, mr terry wynn, have already been discussed. so everyone can understand the importance of this. the reform of the budgetary procedure is by no means a technical matter reserved for specialists. on the contrary, it is a highly political issue: it is our capacity to give substance to the construction of europe and to make our solidarity concrete that is at stake. i would simply like to remind each of the parties to the current negotiations of their responsibilities. this means going beyond the futile game of defending short-term national privileges and interests. this attitude always leads to negotiations being concluded by compromise, which is unsatisfactory for all parties. it is time we looked at where the real interest of all europeans lies. we must enter into a virtuous circle where the concessions made by each side ultimately benefit all. if this attitude prevails, i believe that the opportunity offered by the convention can be seized. let us therefore have the political courage to demand genuine reform, which, as i have said, includes the abolition of the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure, the introduction of a european tax and the introduction of uniform rules for all member states. the convention must establish a genuine codecision procedure, in which parliament and the council deal on an equal footing with all aspects of the community budget and other financial instruments available for european policies. only in this way can the democratic character of the european budget be decisively enhanced and the citizens be brought closer to our institutions, as we all wish. (applause) i would like to thank
- madame guy-quint, i congratulate you for having managed to express yourself calmly and with a loud voice in this charivari. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
in writing. - the aim of the directive, which is to establish, through transparent access to port services, common rules for maritime ports in order to strengthen their role in transport and to give them a leading position in intermodality, must not be achieved at any price, that is to say by giving up a high level of maritime safety, effective environmental protection and satisfactory employment conditions for workers in this sector. the directive under consideration, however, calls into question the social rights of workers, the issue of self-help being the paradigmatic example: it would be to allow self-help to be entrusted to 'fixed shore' personnel employed by ship owners, which would probably lead to the removal of this work from professional dockers and other qualified technical personnel to be carried out by unskilled and cheaper labour. the risks of social dumping are obvious. i shall therefore vote in favour of rejecting this directive, a position which will certainly not be the majority in the ep. i shall therefore vote in favour of any amendments which seek to strengthen the text in the direction of greater protection for workers.
in writing. - parliament, the council and the commission remain firmly committed to the liberalisation of port services. the few advances, such as the exclusion of pilots and sailors from the directive, do not reverse the process that has begun and we fear that the respite for these professions will be short-lived. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the port authorities are able to take account of the needs of the port community. dockworkers, threatened by self-help, i.e. the possibility for shipowners and charterers to have their ships loaded and unloaded by their own staff, have shown the way by organising several eurogroup strikes and demonstrating in thousands in front of the european institutions. we have been and are in solidarity with their mobilization. that is why we voted against the directive. it is preparing, as has the liberalization of rail transport, for human, social and environmental disasters. these disasters will not take place off our coasts, as in the case of the erika and prestige, but in the ports. against liberalisation, we must promote a public port service coordinated at european level, guaranteeing the highest level of safety and social standards.
in writing. - after opening up maritime transport to ultra-liberal competition, with the consequences we all know: polluted beaches, french fishermen killed by a norwegian chemical tanker piloted by sri lankans, the european commission is now going to hand over port services, from piloting to handling, to private services, in the name of competition between ports, competitiveness and cost reduction, as in the air and rail sectors. the opening of the market, which is apparently limited to the major ports, and whose capacity is not known to be 3 million or 45 million tonnes of cargo, involves, for example, 'self-help', i.e. the ship's own crew will be able to handle the cargo with, as one might guess, its underpaid men from south-east asia, thus providing new slaves for world capitalism in the service of social dumping, all under the flag of complacency. the debate is only about whether safety concerns will allow piloting and towing to be excluded from the port's privatisation. for the rest, our dockers in marseille, sète and other major ports will be handed over to the pirates of ultra-liberalism. the destruction of fishing jobs will be supplemented by the destruction of port jobs. the revolt and despair of these men against a directive produced by the hawks of economic globalisation is understandable.
in writing. - this directive is far from perfect - states must be able to require that the rules in force for shore-based personnel apply to seafarers carrying out (self-help) activities referred to in the annex to the directive - but it is nevertheless welcome. the reluctance of some companies is in fact a simple refusal to open up port services to competition. this self-sufficient logic does not only reflect a rejection of the market economy in principle. solemn declarations on the maintenance of public service obligations, the guarantee of jobs or the preservation of the safety and environment of ports - objectives which are perfectly legitimate and which no one disputes - conceal a desire, much less noble, to defend monopolies, especially trade unions, which some believed to be untouchable. the completion of a major project such as port 2000 in le havre, the first french port for the transport of container cargo, clearly shows that our ports and the companies in the sector are not afraid of the introduction of a more competitive dynamic in port services. on the contrary, by equipping themselves with the necessary infrastructure to prepare for the future, ports will be able to meet the challenge of opening up the market and win it.
in writing. (fr) we are still opposed in principle to the use of community funds to finance european political parties. however, if the plan is nevertheless imposed by the large groups, we would much rather that these appropriations remain in the commission's budget, which will be responsible for their implementation, thus taking full responsibility for its initiative, rather than being transferred to parliament's budget, perpetuating the confusion between parliamentary groups and political parties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
- the next item is the report (a5-0062/2003) by mr mann, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on new proposals for a strategy for employment and social policy in the european union [2002/2236 (ini) ].
- madam president, the economic doctrine of the european union in general and the reading of this report in particular give us the impression of a total disconnect between, on the one hand, declarations of principle, good feelings, and an honourable work of reflection on employment and, on the other hand, the terrible and distressing social realities of global competition and economic war. of course, everyone agrees that encouraging investment and enterprise creates jobs; reducing taxation and bureaucratic constraints will boost activity; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. but after having pushed through these open doors, after having explained that in addition to jobs and growth, we would need a third ecological dimension, not to mention the objective of promoting health and well-being in the workplace, after having expressed all these beautiful sentiments, we must wake up, get out of the dream and into reality. the impact is severe: poverty, social plans, relocation, social dumping, rising unemployment, mass immigration, falling growth, population collapse, the social protection system on the verge of implosion. we owe all this to a european political class which has succeeded in achieving a synthesis of the defects of bureaucratic socialism and the defects of globalist ultra-liberalism. we are thus adding up all the handicaps. it is also clear that enlargement to the east is already an extraordinary call for mass relocations, as well as a call for mass immigration. it is clear that the economic policy of the union opening up its internal market to global competition is selling off what remains of our labour-intensive industries. the free trade extremists and the fundamentalists of globalisation are dangerously irresponsible to the future of our economies and social structures. the economic and social recovery requires the recovery of our internal markets, national and community preference, national and community protection, a redefinition of the wto rules of trade, and all this certainly not in the context of the infernal machine for crushing peoples that the european union has become today.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, following the conclusions of the lisbon summit, the various reports voted in this parliament on employment have always stressed the need to strike a balance between quantitative and qualitative employment development, or between economic and social development. the strategy that has been implemented has made real progress, and we fully support, as has been said, the proposals you have put forward for the follow-up to this work. but today, in a difficult context, that of waves of restructuring of companies, of collective redundancies which tend to increase precariousness in the labour market, the european parliament must again give a strong and clear signal. the report by mr mann on his own initiative is in many respects the opposite of the message we should be conveying, presenting ourselves as an exclusively liberal profession of faith, and the work done by the committee on employment and social affairs to rebalance the text is in danger of being totally undermined by the amendments tabled again in plenary. mr mann, what we need today is not simply more flexibility; it is a new approach to the problem of the internal market. we must at the same time have a policy which is as much about sustainability as it is about flexibility. we do not want, as you suggest, second-rate jobs, low-skilled jobs. we need to focus on training, on qualifications, and on supporting the most vulnerable groups, such as women, young people and the elderly. we also do not want a policy which sees the tax burden as the root of all evil. we also do not want deregulation, the uncontrolled opening up of the markets for trade in services, sacrificing all social achievements on the altar of free competition. if the report were amended in the way you propose in plenary, we could only oppose it. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that the message in favour of a strategy for employment and social policy in the european union, the title of the report, cannot ignore the principles of solidarity and social cohesion, which are the guarantors of the prosperity of our economies. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not know whether i can add much to the excellent speech by mrs gillig, my colleague. i do not think that this is the report with which i will meet the employees of metaleurope, alstom, france télécom and many others who are clearly threatened today by massive restructuring and by collective dismissals which are absolutely violent and unbearable, often due to the actions of shareholders who are totally out of control. in this context, the incessant calls for social dialogue appear to be rather surrealist rhetoric. what we need to do today is very clearly a policy of democratization in the company which breaks with this intolerable way in which employees are currently being hired, thrown away, made precarious, fired. i believe that the social climate, further exacerbated by the economic downturn, is creating a very unpleasant climate to which this report is certainly not capable of giving a credible answer. in such a situation, should we not go deeper, look more closely - i know that it is a bit erratic to talk about this in this house - at certain experiments in reducing working time, negotiated experiments, job creators, which have considerably strengthened the economic performance of certain large companies, which have considerably improved the quality of social relations in the company, the quality of work? should we not go and look at these experiments and draw all the conclusions from them which i think are, in most cases, extremely interesting? should we not consider the possibility of developing a number of activities which are socially useful or environmentally sound and which have a certain potential but which unfortunately receive very little support or recognition? i think it would be much more interesting to use imagination, rather than to go over the old liberal over-enthusiastic rhetoric. we must start to take an interest in these debates and initiatives.
- commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we knew this was coming. for a long time, it was too early to talk about it. this was particularly the case when, in a report presented in autumn 2000, we tried to talk about it in the context of our work on enlargement. it was a report from mr. brok. today it would be rash to base a decision on the work of the european central bank alone. the reality is that the institutional solutions we adopt in relation to the central bank are sometimes scary, because we sometimes get the impression that they could be imposed on other institutional mechanisms, why not on the union itself. that is the reality of the debate we are having here. i believe that what the treaty of nice has done, the convention can undo. what the central bank proposes, the convention must be able to go back to because, basically, there is an evolution of the system that is proposed, whether it is the establishment of a rotation mechanism or a differentiation in the decisions that are taken within the central bank. i think that we cannot reject everything in the proposal made by the central bank, for example the idea of limiting the number of members of the governing council if we want that body to continue to be able to decide. i also think that we should look at these proposals and try to see what is most important to us. i think we can learn some lessons in terms of criteria from the experience of this young institution, the central bank. the first is that the relative weight between the executive board and the board of governors must be carefully considered if the bank is to be in a position to decide. the second, on which our committee chair, mrs christa randzio-plath, has spoken, concerns the transparency of decisions within decision-making bodies. the third concerns the bank's ability to decide monetary policy in the interest of the area as a whole. it seems to me that we should examine the central bank's proposal in the light of these three criteria, but above all, it is in the light of these three criteria that the convention, because i think it is essentially its decision, should propose a solution for the future of decisions within the central bank.
- mr president, mr president of the commission, i support and welcome this initiative by the commission to express its political will to bring our relations with neighbouring countries closer together and intensify them. the point of discontinuity in this rapprochement landscape is the border, and i wonder whether, through all the measures taken for border control, for the fight against illegal immigration and in readmission agreements, so through everything that concerns the integration of the management of migration flows into the union's external relations, especially with its neighbours, i wonder whether - i would say - we are not transforming, which would probably be less glorious, this area of the neighbouring states into a kind of subcontracting of the management of flows, or into a kind of buffer zone between the european union and the rest of the world. i believe that these measures are now promoting the creation of detention zones within and on the borders of europe, in other words in those neighbouring countries, areas which are managed in a totally wild and arbitrary way and in which the rights, which are those fundamental values which we want to share, are indeed, most of the time, totally disregarded. so, are you aware of these risks that are present today?
- mr president, mr garcía-margallo calls a cat a cat: the european union has no economic policy. he is contributing to a good debate and i thank him for that. for diagnosis and solutions, the words rigidity and structural reforms are incantatory. we regularly ask the commission, the central bank and the experts what this means. i'm struck by the imprecision and dissonance of the answers. in a remarkable conference mr turner, the british business leader, himself said that we must be careful not to dismantle the welfare state and that the agenda for liberalization in europe - i quote - is useful but can only marginally respond to the current challenges. it is clear that the pension problem will be insoluble without a sharp increase in the rate of activity in europe. successfully mobilizing human capacity is crucial. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the labour market, including the introduction of new technologies and the development of new services. what is the reason for the lack of productive investment, public and private? one reason is the management of capital flows, many of which leave the united states. it seems to me a fallacy to think that the financial market will, of itself, be the engine of a new investment cycle in europe, as it has been on a global scale over the last decade. it does not allow for local development, smes and infrastructure. the union must be able to finance effective networks of services of general interest and to have policies of productive enterprises. we not only have a supply problem, we also underestimate the demand problem! hundreds of billions of dollars in depreciation of surplus value is weighing on corporate earnings and blocking recovery. far from fearing inflation, the central bank must relax its target and lower its real interest rates below zero. on the other hand, although it is true that many states have not been able or have not been able to reform public finances in time, the seriousness of the economic situation today justifies support for activity, including temporary exceeding the 3% rule. two words: the war in iraq is also economically insane. it will increase the sterile public deficits in the united states and europe, whereas our credo is to reduce them. the united states is on very thin ice, one of our experts said. their future growth would require even more of our capital to be pumped in, which is another contradiction. conclusion: europe can no longer follow the united states passively. she has to invent her policy. she's at the foot of the wall. the convention is silent. as for the demands for economic government, they remind me of that scene in the movie "soldier charlot" where the troops are plunged into the fog, each wandering on adventure and where you hear the soldier call his leader captain houhou.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must admit that several reports deal with almost exactly the same thing. in this case we will not vote on the report named after a person whom i greatly admire, mr trentin, and we will instead work on the report by mr garcía-margallo y marfil. the committee on economic and monetary affairs is faced with a real problem of functioning. when the same question is put by a rapporteur from the left, or by a rapporteur from the right, it is, in the first case, massacred by our distinguished colleagues from the right and, with a little luck, it gets through when it is put by a rapporteur from the right. it is therefore necessary to recognize that, after the hard work done by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, the report by mr garcía-margallo y marfil - who, as rapporteur, has, in any case, qualities which i have recognized in him for a very long time - is much better and much more useful than that by mr trentin, which is obviously not mr trentin's report, as mr langen has pointed out, since when mr trentin speaks, he says almost the opposite of what is written in that report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think that we greens agree with all the objectives and observations on the situation as expressed in the report by mr garcía-margallo y marfil. it has the advantage of reflecting the objectives of economic policy in relation to the lisbon and gothenburg objectives: we want to make europe a model of economic growth, based on the quality of investment in human resources, on the quality of public investment, and on the ecological sustainability of the technologies chosen. i believe that, given the size of our continent, which concentrates one of the highest population densities on earth in a small area, this is the only strategy that the european union can pursue. the contradiction in mr garcía-margallo y marfil's report is that he has to keep on juggling the fact that he must welcome the stability pact, while saying that we should nevertheless be able to finance investments. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a regulation on the european central bank. he's talking about taxes, not interest rates. in short, it is a kind of bypass of the real problems of institutional blockages that we are currently experiencing in europe, and which will put us back, in the coming year, in exactly the same situation of eurosclérose that we experienced during the dark years of the move to the euro, that is, between 1990 and 1997. since we do not control the interest rates set by the european central bank, we will have too high interest rates, which will hinder the states who want to invest and get out of debt at the same time. these too high interest rates will also make our currency too strong, which will prevent us from exporting while the recession is global. if we do not explicitly call into question the stability pact as it is currently drafted, we will not be able to finance the investments requested by mr garcía-margallo y marfil.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, three of the reports before us this evening enable us to take stock of the state of play of economic and monetary union before the spring european council. if i look at the state of public finances in france, it is clear that economic policy is not considered to be a matter of common interest. the treaty is not respected. it is also clear that economic and monetary union, in its economic union dimension, does not exist. the stability pact is at the heart of these mechanisms, and yet it appears primarily as a safeguard rather than as a tool of economic policy. since then, the adoption of the lisbon strategy could have been the starting point for the economic and monetary union to develop an economic policy strategy. the stability pact is simply not the dynamic tool for implementing this strategy. the tools we have at our disposal, in principle, are the so-called broad economic policy guidelines, which we are still discussing this evening, which will mobilize the great minds of the union's economic policy in the months and weeks to come. what are the results, i ask you, commissioner? today, these broad economic policy guidelines function as an academic exercise, without any impact on the public finances of the member states, which are content to see the sanction coming through the implementation of the stability pact, when it is too late. europe needs a growth strategy, as you said in your speech. this requires other tools than those we have at our disposal. you have drawn up a communication on which the council has just given its opinion. i think we need to go further. the convention is an opportunity to do so. i believe that we must work together to develop proposals which are mutually acceptable and which will enable the union to finally have the means not only to develop a real economic policy but also to regard it as a matter of common interest and to implement the objectives of the lisbon strategy.
- mr president, i do not have time to engage in scholarly exegesis on the differences which may separate the text from the reports and the private thoughts of each of the rapporteurs. i shall therefore confine my remarks to the commission's communication and the commissioner's remarks, in order to give them my full support. i believe that the commission is perfectly capable of playing its role as guardian of the treaties in this case, that the stability pact is not dead and that, beyond the polemics which were opened up at the end of last year by perhaps hazardous formulae, it is important to make the distinction between the letter and the spirit prevail and to keep the spirit of the pact alive. because through the maastricht criteria we have committed ourselves to a monetary union which is a political union based on a number of values, and the stability which underpins the european currency means, beyond the technical, a common adherence to a form of social contract. the euro must be more than a strong currency, it must be a stable currency, and by proclaiming this principle, europe is turning its back on the inflationary and tax-poor erroneous ways of the 20th century, and is committing itself to a society of trust and betting on the future. and these are the values we are proposing to the countries that are joining our union. all the more reason not to alter them by reckless questioning. when you can't play a game, you don't ask for the rules to be changed. you learn to master these rules.
mr president, the debate on the violation of the stability pact, which mainly concerns three countries - france, germany and portugal - leads us to recall that, in budgetary matters as elsewhere, the tree must not hide the forest. the three countries with the largest deficits have one thing in common. in the past they have had a period of socialist government - from which germany has not yet emerged - which has been lax on public spending and inert on reforms that could have brought savings. in all three cases, the room for manoeuvre provided by the growth of 2000/2001 was wasted, and we are now reaping the bitter fruits. but this tree must not hide the forest, i.e. the general deterioration of public balances in the euro area, which in 2002 reached an average of -2.4% of gdp, thus approaching the 3% mark. the main reason is that growth has slowed down and has not yet started up again, even slowly, contrary to what is being said, somewhat unrealistically, in the various reports presented this evening. the reason for this slowdown may be the inevitability of the economic situation, but also and above all the heavy burden of public taxation and the structural rigidities which have not yet been remedied. in this respect, we are bound to break a taboo by asking whether the euro itself is not one of those rigidities which penalize growth. in any case, the differences in performance between the euro and non-euro areas raise the question. in view of these shortcomings, should the stability pact be given more flexibility? i note that the commission, the european central bank and even the last ecofin council are saying rather no, with a few minor amendments. as always, with regard to the stability pact and foreign policy, the european union tends not to want to face reality and to oppose paper walls to the deviations from the fundamentals. we believe that, without losing sight of the objective of eliminating public deficits altogether, which is certainly a good thing, france is right to maintain its programme of tax relief in order not to aggravate the crisis at the moment. we are forced to assume an inheritance that we did not create. let's at least try to do it smart.
- mr president, it is clear that the european institutions, which are so inclined to lecture the small countries of europe when they do not respect the convergence criteria, are using a moderate tone when it comes to two of the great powers of the european union, france and germany! maastricht criteria or not, these two states take it for granted that they have the right to increase their deficits in order to help capitalist enterprises in their countries. but we can also see from the attitude of the french government how these two states will respond to the demands of the european institutions, if they do respond. the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the deficit, but it is not yet ready to take action. in france, these amounts represent at least 10% of the budget. there is plenty of room to make a deficit of 3.4% disappear. but in order not to reduce the sums paid to businesses, the french government is attacking the state's expenditure, that is, in reality, the public service. the call for a return to budgetary balance will, in these circumstances, result in less funding for hospitals, less funding for schools. the whole population will pay so that the richest don't have to pay. although it is not the european authorities but the national governments which actually draw up their budgets, we are voting against this report which is used as a cover and justification for austerity measures or attacks on public services.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a directive on supplementary pension institutions should have been designed to serve a social protection mandate, but the union does not have that mandate. the project is therefore part of the objective of creating an internal market for financial services: the bias is obvious. the main purpose of the act is to enable the supplementary pension industry in britain and elsewhere to benefit from its position in offering crossborder services. we have not voted on the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs at first reading. while it sought to correct shortcomings in social obligations, it increased investment risks. the council's common position preserves the possibilities of prudential rules in investment matters better, but it is lagging behind parliament's social demands. we have therefore tabled a motion to reject this common position. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social security system is not disrupted by the crisis. trust in these pension fund systems will not be restored without strict management rules and mutualisations for guarantees. these schemes should also be the subject of european collective agreements between the social partners. i must say that mr karas has done a good job and has taken care to ensure that the text is balanced. however, in the end, compromises between the various components of the political groups and with what seemed acceptable to the council to avoid conciliation led to amendments of limited scope. compared to the common position, this is an improvement, and the amendment tabled by the green group strengthens the prudential investment rules, but the essential and fundamental bias of the text remains.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the greens will vote against the gue/ngl group's proposal to reject the common position. it is not that we take a principled position of refusing to finance supplementary pensions by capitalisation. a pension, as mr kuckelkorn said, is a pension, it is not a savings instrument. it's something that's characterized by its life-long form; the insurance covers the survival of a worker, the return to the surviving spouse and certain guarantees in the event of incapacity. it's not a financial product. it is quite possible that some financial products and financial institutions contribute to the management of certain pension schemes. but from that moment on we are jointly looking for the first time at european level for definitions of pension instruments and social mechanisms, and then we are asking ourselves the question of the conditions under which a financial institution can contribute to them. in the present situation, it is only a savings product that is dressed vaguely but very vaguely, and i thank mr karas for all the efforts he has made to make this dress as similar as possible. we dress it up to look like a retreat; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are purely and simply savings products which should be treated as such and it is selling false goods to say that these are retirement products.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, even if the vote in the security council has not yet taken place as we speak, we already know that in any case it will leave open only one legal voice, that of disarming iraq by peaceful means of inspections. those who would take the responsibility to override this mandate, to unilaterally go to war, would defy the entire international community. i hope that they would be subjected to exemplary political sanction by their own people. and their standing in the world's eyes would likely be damaged for a long time. too much hard power can ruin your soft power. unfortunately, the whole of international society is in danger of being destabilized by this flagrant violation - material breach - of the rules that democracies have set for themselves after the second world war. yet that is what the president of the united states of america is shamelessly proclaiming. the war in iraq, and the unilateral, in our view imperialist policy, to which the war belongs, must be mobilized. we have no shortage of assets and allies to do this. never since the end of the cold war has there been such a strong global peace camp, committed to the rule of law and multilateral cooperation. it is in this context that europe's voice for a world of solidarity must and will be heard. our allies are first of all the peoples of the whole world, starting with those of europe of the fifteen and of the twenty-five. this, moreover, only makes more legitimate the demand for a substantive discussion between the member states and with our partners, before the ratification of the accession treaties and the vote on the future constitution, on the vision of europe that we intend to promote together in response to the will expressed by our fellow citizens. this unprecedented surge in public opinion has no doubt facilitated the antiwar positions of the vast majority of the world's governments, beginning with those of the south, and in particular the non-aligned movement, which alone represents two thirds of the united nations general assembly. that's our second asset. how pathetic and gross in this respect are the blackmailings by mr colin powell of the most dependent among them in an attempt to wrest from them a vote without any popular basis. our supporting points are still all the great moral authorities in the world: from pope john paul ii to nelson mandela, from former president carter to the un secretary-general himself, mr kofi annan, all of whom are passionately and dignifiedly committed to the cause of peace and respect for the un charter. we should also pay tribute to all those authoritative voices in international law who teach at oxford, cambridge and the london school of economics, and to the some 300 eminent spanish jurists who all deny in advance any legal justification for the possible use of military force against iraq. the disarmament inspectors have also contributed a major dimension, both in their firm stance towards baghdad and in their resistance to washington and london, which have not hesitated to accuse them of having supplied them with false information. i would also like to mention in particular the men and women of the un agencies, who are often the only ones, along with certain european representatives in the region, to think first of all about the people and the ordeal imposed on them in iraq, palestine and the arab world in general. i also thank mr patten for some of his strong and fair words this morning in this regard. another important factor is the franco-german couple who have stood firm, even if it means paying the price of political courage in the face of a greater power. we have found new allies on the other side of the atlantic. we, the pluriform delegation of european parliamentarians, who had already visited baghdad last month and who have just established in the united states congress lasting cooperation ties with elected representatives from washington, ohio, california and even texas. this is an america that does not despise europe but hopes in it and welcomes its representatives with open arms. what have our american friends taught us ? that 126 members of parliament voted against the war, in particular two thirds of the elected democrats; whereas 130 american cities, including washington, philadelphia and los angeles, have adopted resolutions opposing military action; the afl-cio has expressed itself in the same way. the anti-war movement (united for peace and justice, women for peace, etc.) reaches an unprecedented quality before the outbreak of a conflict. the new york times has also recently chosen to say no to war. we're a long way from the sacred union some have described. "george w. bush has threatened to isolate europeans who resist his hegemonic pretensions. it's a perfect time to reach out to each other", congressman dennis kucinich, a spokesman for the peace coalition, said. finally, mr president, everyone has the american friends he deserves.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are some things i cannot understand. so we always defend the treaties. article 19 of the treaty on european union says something very simple: 'all governments represented in the security council must defend the position defined by the european union'. spain, england, france and germany must therefore defend a common position. the common position, whether we like it or not, defined by the leaders of the european union, does not speak of ultimatums or the consequences of war; she says the work of the inspectors must be continued. this is exactly the memorandum proposed by france and germany. i do not see how spain and england can not defend this position in the name of the treaty. we must finally have a decision within europe on the reality of our treaties. mrs de palacio vallelersundi, who has always been a nuisance to us with her explanations of the treaties in this parliament, should remember that she came here to defend the treaties which she herself, as foreign minister, is flouting. (applause) i would like to thank i don't understand why we have to go to war when we won the war. why intervene militarily when we won without intervene militarily? we must admit that without the americans, there would be no inspectors today. there would be no inspection, no disarmament. but since there's disarmament and inspections, we don't need to go to war. why go shooting and killing when you can have everything without shooting and killing? i can't figure it out. we criticize ourselves by saying that the situation is the way it is because of a certain determination, whether we like that determination or not. we are now being told, which i still do not understand, that we are going to bring democracy to iraq. that's very good, that's great. but what about turkey ? in turkey, the parliament is elected: very well, this is democracy; whether we like the people who are elected or not, it's not our problem. but then we make an agreement with the military by bypassing the parliament, which is a democratic representation, to get what we did not get through democracy and we say to the people: "see how the democracy we are going to bring you works!" i can't figure it out. we continue to explain, for example, that we are going to liberate the people of iraq. we say to the kurds of iraq: it will be fantastic, we will liberate you with the turkish army. this is the liberation that the kurds have been dreaming of for a hundred years: to be finally under the domination of the turkish army! these people obviously think it 's fantastic ! there is a key to democracy in this region. this key is in tehran. it is not about making war on iran, but the people in iran are fighting for democracy. it is the only people who, at this moment, are rising up against his totalitarian rule, it is the only people who are making monstrous demonstrations, who are voting for democracy. we leave it alone, we do not help it and then we say that we have brought democracy to other regions. i think we should do the opposite. helping the iranian people to free themselves would teach two lessons in this region. the first is that emancipation and democracy are not achieved by the intervention of military men from i do not know where, but by the will and determination of the people themselves. the second is that if this people can emancipate themselves with our help, they will be able to say to all the fundamentalists, to all the terrorists and to all those who are fascinated by totalitarian fundamentalism: "we know what fundamentalism is, we have suffered the consequences and we have fought against it. we have emancipated ourselves". this will be an extraordinary lesson for the region, more telling than the occupation of iraq by an american general. in conclusion, then, let us all stop being blind. yes, regime change is needed in baghdad, as regime change is needed in saudi arabia, in tunisia, and in this or that country in africa, but it cannot be done by military invasion, whatever it is. so let us be responsible for a part of the democracies in the world and not say that peace will prevail if there is no military intervention in iraq. it is not peace, but it is not the way for the iraqi people to finally live in peace. he has the right to live in peace, not only without an american general, but also without saddam hussein. (applause from the left)
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the united states is a great democracy. they brought a lot. and if we look back over the last 50 years, no one forgets the decisive role they played in the defense of freedom. that is why i, like my group, refuse to be faced with the dilemma of saying: we are for or against the americans. that would be a stupid position. however, because we have respect and consideration for the united states, we also have the right to tell them that they are wrong and that the course they are taking today can only lead to very serious consequences in the future. one of two things: either there are international rules and every nation has to abide by them; or we consider that we have taken a big step backwards and that now force comes before right and that from the moment we have force, we are the stronger and we have the right to intervene. in that case, i would ask you to propose that the charter of the united nations be amended so that the right of intervention now includes the right of the strongest to intervene when they consider it necessary to defend their general interests, their vital interests. the united states has been the victim of a terrible attack. they've had thousands of deaths. no one can forget it. so they have the right to defend themselves. they have the right to retaliate. but who is responsible for these attacks ? the al-qaeda organization. has there been any evidence of links between the al-qaeda organisation and iraq? the answer is no. there is no proof. the united states should therefore tell us, before embarking on this military operation, what the real reasons are, the underlying reasons why they want to intervene. if we are to reshape the map of this region of the world, i say at once that this will have incalculable consequences and that, as a result, we are preparing the emergence of a new generation of terrorists and a lasting rift between the muslim world and the rest of the planet. and this is extremely concerning. that is why we in this group agree that all efforts must be made to find a solution to this problem through disarmament. from that point on, once we have established that principle, it is not here that decisions are to be taken. there is something sympathetic and surreal about our debates. the fact remains that we are entitled to say what we think and i will say that as far as the french delegation is concerned, including myself, although i am not in any way dependent on the government, it supports the position taken by the president of the french republic to oppose by all means the launching of a military operation. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the camp of resistance to the unjust pre-emptive war that the anglo-americans intend to unleash in iraq is growing stronger every day, both in national opinion, as evidenced by polls and demonstrations, and in the un security council. the diplomatic resolve of france, germany and russia may make politicians in britain and even the united states reflect. war is war, but the pre-war is not war. on the brink of a precipice where world peace is in danger, it would not be a disgrace, on the contrary, to renounce, despite the homeric speeches and the expenditure involved, such an unjust act, so contrary to the rights of the people, so dangerous. it would therefore not be absurd if the reconciled european parliament, why not, proposed to the committee sitting in the parliament in oslo that the nobel peace prize be awarded to george w. bush for helping to achieve the objectives set by the un in iraq, without bloodshed and without tears, and for winning over himself, and in the name of his people, this great peaceful victory. if it were otherwise, alas, and the unfortunate iraqi people, and especially children, were sacrificed to the demons of war, the consequences would be tragic. the earthquake would unleash the forces of evil all over the earth. what, moreover, would be the next step in the promised reconstitution of the middle east? could the next target of the superpower's military be iran, syria or others, since there would be no limits to the law of the stronger?
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if the prospect of a new tragedy costing so many lives were not haunting our minds today, we would say that this crisis is a magnificent illustration of the world as it is. it reveals truths that the rulers of the world have long been saying in the desert and that are suddenly becoming the order of the day. the first thing to be clear is that the actors in international life are not blocs, or some unknown set of civilizations hastily carved out to suit an imperial, and moreover vaguely racial, interpretation of the world. the real actors are still the nation states. there is no more united international community than there is a united west, any more than there is a united europe. the west, the so-called international community, europe are completely torn apart, as indeed is the east, in this crisis, what the unfortunate huntington so foolishly called "the muslim world" which includes both pro-war nations, such as kuwait, and opposing nations, such as many arab countries, and even abstainers, such as pakistan. europe is of course no more united, since it is in this poor group, supposedly committed to a pathetic common foreign and security policy, that we find the most fierce supporters of the american line, as well as its most determined opponents. in short, in the north and in the south, each nation determines its own destiny, independent of any illusory solidarity, and it is not until the anglo-saxon cavalry alone that it deals a fatal blow to the old multilateralism so in vogue in the twentieth century. no, definitely not, only the nation-states remain, and we are glad that this is being demonstrated in such a striking way. and what demonstration of the true nature of america, or rather of the united states, because it is quite wrong for them to claim to speak for a continent, as the brave chile has just shown. in reality, the united states is only defending the most trivial level of its interests and yet it is not so safe, since we see a small clique, obsessed with power, sliding onto the path of war which is in the very nature of empire, and that too, as we have always said, empire is war. the nation is the only possible way of a non-totalitarian unification of the world. as for france, the crisis also reveals it as it is, that is to say, as eternity will never change it, the only true bulwark against the empires of freedom of the peoples which is the other name of freedom.... (the president withdraws the speaker)
- mr president, commissioner, the united states thought they could manipulate the un to give legal cover to their war of plunder in iraq, but the un resisted. the un, the world public opinion, they don't want this war. the reason is that the judiciary refuses to bow to the fanatical fundamentalism that has been reigning for some time in washington. the iraqi people are innocent. why is it still necessary to bomb it when it has been suffering for so long under such a cruel embargo? this war will plunge us into the clash of civilizations. this time it's not the islamist fundamentalists who are pushing for conflict, it's the us administration. the reaction will be terrible. already the mosque of al-hazar, the muslim vatican, yesterday called for a holy war against the americans. at the security council, france will veto it, and so will russia. we must support peace.
- mr president, the confrontation between two conceptions of international relations, both in iraq and throughout the world, is dividing europe in two. the crisis dispels illusions and puts us face to face with reality. it reminds those who have forgotten that nation states remain diplomatic and strategic actors, that they can naturally, when their analyses converge, act together effectively on an intergovernmental basis, and that the european union is not a political subject. if europe is strong in this crisis, it is not through the mechanisms of the cfsp, but because of the political will of a number of european states. the most determined supporters of the american vision are europeans, as are its most articulate opponents. the convention will therefore have to learn from this return to reality. no one should think any longer of imposing a common foreign policy in all directions by majority pressure; that would be to choose the path of alignment rather than the path of europe's independence. the cfsp must match its ambitions with reality, help to harmonize national diplomacies where they agree, let them act separately where they do not, and never again seek to substitute artificial and ineffective pseudo-consensus for them, because that would be to the detriment of europe.
- mr president, commissioner, i think that the applause for your speech was simply for the fact that you have shown this morning that a european commissioner can be the voice of the european people and that there is a european discourse in this crisis. - thank you. - thank you. (applause) i would like to thank we are told that a lightning war would first establish democracy in iraq, and then wipe out the source of terrorism. and yet, what do we hear about the situation in afghanistan, where a flash war has been waged and where, day after day, in silence, we witness the tragedy of afghan women? what do we know about the mobilization of public opinion, this new superpower? what is it that we do not understand that his determination to take to the streets was motivated by the conviction that not only would war not eradicate terrorism, but that a unilateral pre-emptive war would create new terrorism? it is on the basis of what the mobilized european people tell us that we must act in the security council, and it is unacceptable that, in the framework of the united nations, after we have committed ourselves to possible disarmament thanks to international pressure, and after we have seen that this process is working, under the conditions defined collectively, we should want to change the rule in the middle of the road to set an ultimatum. our hope is a majority against an ultimatum in the security council. we believe in it. we believe that war is avoidable. it depends a lot on europe. it is very much up to you, mr president-in-office, to give mr blix the time he says he needs to complete the work, not weeks and years, he said, but months. it is in this spirit that we believe that the right of veto of certain permanent members of the security council should be used when a majority could not be reached. but first, we hope to form a majority in the security council. we wanted inspections and international legality, which is something all europeans agree on. the inspectors have done a good job and we welcome the progress. the detectives are asking for more time. we have to give it to them. basically, we know that the new world order is in play, one that has begun to take shape, not since 9/11, but since the fall of the berlin wall, leaving behind a single "superpower" on the planet. and in the face of this situation, we do not believe that any single european country can, on its own, in the long term, stand up to what would be the pax americana. we are europeans, which means that we believe in the virtue of debate and conviction, in the futility of humiliation, in the need to give everyone his place on the international scene, and we believe, above all, in international law.
- mr. president, we are on the verge of a disaster announced and wanted by the american administration. it is now clear that the values bush is championing have nothing to do with democracy, but are rather stock exchange-listed values that smell of oil. the wall street journal of 10 march announced that the us administration had called for bids of $900 million from five us companies for the reconstruction of iraq. what a confession ! iraq is only the first country to fall victim to an offensive which is intended to allow american capitalism to globalize its economic and therefore military hegemony, turning the people into commodities and cannon fodder. afghanistan, colombia, the philippines, venezuela, palestine, no one is left out. but on 15 february, another upheaval began: thousands of people took to the streets of our capitals to say no to the war and they will close it on 15 march. democracy means taking up this demand, and no member of parliament and no government can escape it. the veto is now in the streets. here, as in america, everyone has to choose his side.
mr president, will it be necessary to resort to arms to force saddam hussein to give up his programmes for the development, manufacture and stockpiling of weapons of mass destruction once and for all and to prove it? i am one of those who still hope that this can be avoided, and after president pasqua i would like to say here that i approve of the efforts made by france and its government to this end. i also share the view of those who say that if this last resort were to be considered, it could only be with a mandate from the united nations, the only organization capable of conferring legitimacy on this action which would, mr barón crespo, mark a radical change in the attitude of the international community, which had hitherto been united around the idea that the use of armed force could only be considered in a state of legitimate defence and, therefore, in response to an actual aggression. we have already begun to think about this subject in our previous debates. of course, we have not found a definitive answer to this question. but i would like to remind you that it is on this question of the legitimacy or illegitimacy of any preventive or preemptive military action that our group did not want to join the majority position expressed by this house in its last resolution. how, mr president-in-office of the council, can we meet the new challenge posed by international terrorism if we do not apply the precautionary principle, now unanimously recognized, in this field as in others? i personally believe that any head of state or government who is warned of a serious threat to the lives of thousands of his fellow citizens and fails to take all the necessary measures to protect them would be guilty in their eyes. weapons of mass destruction pose a real threat to the survival and health of populations. whenever the existence of such a threat is confirmed, i believe it will be the duty of political leaders to eliminate it, without waiting for it to be implemented, and therefore, by preventive, diplomatic, economic, political measures and, if these measures are not sufficient, by the ultimate use of armed force. that is what we are all committed to achieving in iraq, that is what we will probably have to do tomorrow with north korea, and it is with this conviction that i repeat here that our present differences are much more apparent than real.
in writing. - in his press conference the day before yesterday, the president of the french republic rightly pointed out that the deployment of anglo-american forces on the iraqi borders was the real cause of the resumption of inspections and the first tangible results. it is not a paradox to say that this deployment has so far enabled us to make some progress, peacefully, towards our common objective: the disarmament of iraq. in today's debate, however, we have clearly felt the beginning of a slide towards a kind of anti-american exaltation on the part of some speakers. the chairman of the communist group, for example, boasted of seeing a "peace camp, the largest since the end of the cold war". this argument reminded us of an old dialectic that was heard too much, precisely, during the cold war. it is thanks to it that the goal of disarming saddam hussein, and even sometimes his condemnation, is gradually disappearing behind the anti-american jubilation. i would like to avoid these diversions and return to the main question which we have forgotten: how can saddam hussein be disarmed without waiting ten years?
in writing. - in voting on the karas report on occupational pension institutions, the french socialist delegation voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the gue group. we believe that the financing of pensions is based on the principle of sharing. moreover, the text proposed to us at second reading is not acceptable and the subsequent proposals of commissioner bolkestein or the amendments voted by the economic and monetary affairs committee do not sufficiently improve the balance of the text. the occupational pension institutions cannot be treated as mere financial instruments; they must be based on a social protection logic. the aim here is not to infringe the prerogatives of the member states in social matters but to underline the social importance of the text by the european parliament, the body representing the citizens. since the first reading we have fought for the basic principles of biometric risks, regular information for members and control over these institutions to be incorporated into the text. today, under the singular pretext of avoiding the conciliation stage, the rapporteur, with the complicity of the commissioner, is forbidding our assembly, as a co-legislator, to defend the interests of the citizens. we refuse this coup.
in writing. - is the wto the organization for the "districting" of public services? this is the impression given by the general agreement on trade in services (gats). although article 16 of the ec treaty clearly defines the role of public services in the social and territorial cohesion of the union, they are still on sale. post office, power, railroad, everything goes through here. when will culture, education and health care be competitive? i would like the mandate given to pascal lamy, the union's negotiator, to be clear and extremely well defined. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the mandate given to the commission should be decided by unanimity of the member states, not by qualified majority. it should be public too. no one has been able to read it, not even national parliaments, which have not been able to debate it. they voted to create public services. only a few meps were able to access the mandate document in a room specially prepared for them, with a formal ban on taking notes. this is a good illustration of the democratic deficit.
in writing. - we voted against the parliament's resolution which gives the commission a guarantee to negotiate the liberalization of trade in services in the so-called 'gats' cycle. this guarantee is granted on far too vague a basis, the commission will exploit it as usual in the broad sense, and the peoples will find themselves a little more disarmed by those very people who claim to make them 'stronger'. our fears are heightened when we note that the convention chaired by valéry giscard d'estaing intends to include trade policy among the exclusive competences of the union, dealt with by qualified majority, and to abolish the exceptions (cultural and audiovisual services, education, social services and human health) which article 133 (6) tec still required to be dealt with unanimously. such a development would make the gats trap worse for us. it is noted with some amusement that the french government protested and asked for unanimity to be maintained on these 'very sensitive' matters. but why should these areas be considered more sensitive than others, such as water production or nuclear engineering? and if unanimity really does provide such good protection, why is it demonized in all european affairs?
in writing. - trade agreements which advocate the liberalization of international trade, deregulation, imply that more and more sectors of public services are being left to the market, to competition, that is to say to the appetites of private interests. this is a disastrous development for the vast majority of society. it's a regular attack on the working classes. but it must be stressed that it is conducted with the agreement of governments, or even on their own initiative, even when they pretend to be different from the wto or other similar bodies. the problem is not only to preserve cultural diversity, although it is legitimate to say that culture should not be a commodity. but how can we accept that health, health care, education, which are essential to social life, should be left to the stupid laws of the market and competition? how can we accept it for water, electricity, postal services or railways and other sectors important for social life? we, for our part, oppose all this and oppose any opening up of public services to competition and profit-making, any attack on their staff and any job cuts.
in writing. - the liberals and conservatives of all colours, who signed a joint resolution, have thwarted all attempts to defend cultural diversity and reject the 'commercialization' of culture! all the amendments by the gue/ngl group which went in this direction were rejected. that is why, like the members of my delegation from the republican, radical and citizen left, the gue/ngl group and a few other socialist members, i voted against this resolution by the epp-pes-liberal group. this is not the kind of europe that corresponds to the european europe for which i have been fighting for 40 years!
in writing. - i regret that on a subject so decisive for the future of the european citizens, we have to content ourselves with a resolution procedure. a commissioner should only speak on behalf of the european union after negotiating his mandate with the elected representatives. the constitution will have to take account of this democratic deficit if it is to succeed in bringing europe closer to its citizens. the amendments proposing a political reorientation of the text having been rejected, i shall vote against the resolution. public services should not be part of the negotiations, a suspensive moratorium on any new agreement would allow a genuine impact assessment with regard to other market services. some say that developing countries are asking for such agreements. they have no choice but to privatise their public services, the level of their debt preventing them from borrowing for the development of these services, especially for water. the wto must no longer be the trojan horse of a liberalism which has shown its limits and its inability to improve the quality of life of the majority of the world's citizens. international trade is essential, but it must be conditional on the adoption and observance of environmental and social rules.
in writing. - as is often the case in the european parliament, the joint resolution on the gats tabled by the right (epp-de), the liberals (eldr) and the socialists (pse) is a mixture of negative and positive proposals (publicity for the negotiations, defence of cultural diversity, etc.). but the general line of the project is clear: to pursue the liberalisation of services and to strengthen the role of the wto in the context of unequal globalisation. the joint resolution defends the theory, contradicted by the facts, that opening up the market for services benefits everyone and aims to 'convince poor nations that the success of the wto is decisive for the economy of all countries, rich and poor' (recitals a and c). instead of calling for the suspension of the doha round and a moratorium on the gatt negotiations - conservative measures without which there is no possible exercise of democracy - it wants more liberalisation in a number of sectors, including telecommunications and maritime transport (articles 3 and 8). the authors of the joint resolution are aware of the general concern raised by the gats. but the formal precautions cannot hide the fact that the adoption of this resolution would represent a further step in the commodification of services. we voted against it.
in writing. - services, particularly public services, are the key issue, not only because they represent two thirds of european gdp, but also because they touch the very foundation of the identity of peoples with culture. should we then privatize, commodify global public goods like health, literacy, knowledge, water? the wto says yes. everything is merchandise. the european commission says yes, but behind the scenes, because brussels ideologically adheres to the philosophy of the 'libertarians', for whom everything is for sale, including the police, the army and humanitarian aid through echo. we pretend to preserve cultural diversity. culture and audiovisual are not "marketable", while agriculture, the foundation of civilization, has been marketed since the uruguay round. it is also said that no offer of liberalization has been made by europe for health, education and the audiovisual sector. but already american chains of intellectual "fast food" are buying a university in madrid. the audiovisual of berlusconi, bouygues, murdoch, is a commodity. there is water, which the former imf managing director, camdessus, says is the major factor in corruption, especially in the french lyonnaise des eaux. the confidentiality of the negotiations, the uncertainty about the services involved and the byzantineism about the distinction between globalized trade and nationalized regulation make the gats an agreement behind the backs of the peoples.
in writing. - once again the fishermen disagree with the commission. the cod seems to be the guinea pig for the commission to experiment with the new instrument it has managed to impose on the council in the context of recovery plans for endangered species: limiting fishing effort. this instrument is naturally susceptible to the widest extensions. we are already talking about cod and sole in the bay of biscay. the commission proposal on cod is based, as always, on the most recent opinions of the international council for the exploration of the sea, which includes many non-european partners and many of whose positions have been controversial in the past. it is undeniable that certain cod stocks are in a vulnerable situation in several areas. but by attributing the origin of this situation exclusively to fishing, the commission risks condemning the fishermen without restoring the resource. we abstain on the stevenson resolution only because it advocates codecision in the cfp, which in our view does not need an additional factor of uncertainty and unpredictability. we are of course supporting the rest of the resolution.
in writing. - the explanatory statement of this report welcomes the decline in unemployment at european level. the 13 million unemployed figure proposed in the text is not to be welcomed, however, and is certainly an underestimated figure which, moreover, does not take into account those who have to content themselves with precarious work with low pay. in addition, for several months now, the number of unemployed has been rising again in all the countries of the union. how could it be otherwise, even as the continent's most powerful industrial groups announce major job cuts and close one factory after another? speaking in terms of employment strategy, to use the title of the report, may seem rather ominous to those millions of workers who are being pushed into poverty simply so that the firms that lay them off can ensure their shareholders higher dividends by paying lower wages. we voted against this text because its philosophy is that it is for employers to decide sovereignly whether or not to maintain jobs, even though it is obvious that, without coercive measures forcing companies to withdraw from their current or past profits what is needed to maintain jobs and wages, the number of unemployed will continue to increase and poverty will increase.
in writing. - the commitment made in lisbon to a european future characterized by a quantitative and qualitative improvement in employment and greater social cohesion seems to be seriously threatened by this report, if it is now amended in the way proposed by mr mann. these amendments, which have been reintroduced for the plenary, also completely call into question the work done by the committee on employment to rebalance the rapporteur's text in favour of an employment policy which is concerned not only with greater flexibility and a reduction in taxation but also, and above all, with the speedy achievement of quality employment for all: training and education must therefore be the focus of our policy, second-class jobs and other unskilled work must disappear. the report, as amended, ignores the principles of solidarity and social cohesion, which are essential and objective principles for anyone who is seriously seeking to implement a new strategy for employment, a generous strategy which puts people at the centre of all its concerns. i am therefore opposed to this report, which, with its amendments, embraces neoliberal principles and, in other words, advocates a policy of employment which ignores the human factor.
in writing. - following the conclusions of the lisbon summit, we have always insisted on the necessary balance between quantity and quality. we have made real progress and we must fight the scourge of unemployment. but we must be careful about social plans, restructuring, relocation and mass redundancies. we cannot be satisfied with the precarious situation that is afflicting more and more of our fellow citizens. the european parliament has a real duty in this warning. mr mann has given the opposite message, and that is unacceptable, by presenting to us an exclusively neoliberal profession of faith. we need a real fight against poverty and for employment today. we do not accept low-skilled jobs, and we do not accept workers being precarious. instead, we need to focus on training, on skills, and on supporting the most vulnerable. we must be very vigilant about women's work, we must allow young people to enter the labour market with hope. we do not want deregulation and uncontrolled opening up of the markets for trade in services (gats). we will not accept sacrificing all our hard-won social gains. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - while stressing its commitment to respecting the provisions of the stability pact and to accelerating the reforms adopted in lisbon, the garcía-margallo report remains deaf to the criticism and deep divergences that are increasingly being heard in public opinion. he remains blind to the rise in unemployment, mass layoffs, and the sudden closure of businesses. what crime did the employees of metaleurope commit ? what kind of 'stability' is this when lives are being destroyed for the sake of 'compatibility with monetary policy'? the old adage is well known: liberalisation of markets requires sacrifice ! i would have liked the eu to set itself the ambition of a genuine pact for employment and growth, based on meeting the needs of the people, a rise in wages, a genuine policy for creating jobs and wealth. i can therefore only object to the logic of the report not to call into question the macroeconomic stability which means that bosses receive public funds, can close companies, without being held accountable. i cannot support the call for 'strengthening liberalisation in the services of general interest ... including postal services, telecommunications, gas and electricity, rail and air transport and broadcasting'.
in writing. - this report is of no interest to the european parliament except to give its unconditional support to the commission's proposals. apart from the inevitable catalogue of good intentions - promotion of the spirit of enterprise, increased investment in human resources and research and development - which we can only endorse, this report perfectly illustrates the pavlovian spirit which reigns in this house: it is enough for the commission to become the champion of european integration on the liberal and federalist model for parliament to automatically agree with it. the same is true of the demand to make the commission the economic government of europe, and of the desire to liberalize services of general interest and the network industries, the main ones being postal services, telecommunications, gas and electricity, and rail transport. while greater convergence of the economic policies of the member states is obviously desirable, to be viable it must be achieved within the limits of their competence and, in so doing, naturally result from free economic competition between states, and not from technocratic decisions ignoring national realities.
in writing. - the trentin report welcomes the extremely satisfactory implementation of the stability and growth pact, which was recently denounced as stupid by the president of the commission, romano prodi. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the eu's external relations are not distorted by the threat of a crisis. the trentin report, like the garcía-margallo and dos santos reports, which were also put to the vote, is in favour of the intelligent application of the pact and the adjustments that this implies. but intelligence and stupidity meet in incoherent speech, which would make things that are not compatible compatible. in short, the structural reforms mentioned mean increased precariousness of work, financialization of pensions and new privatizations. in the face of rising unemployment, the alternative is to abandon the stability pact altogether in favour of a policy focused on job creation through a profound change in the distribution of income. it is because there is no trace of such a perspective that we voted against this report, which only proposes inconsistent revisions of the pact.
in writing. - the report, which is faithful to the orthodoxy of monetarism and federalism, calls for an even more rigid interpretation of the pact for stability and growth, which is not so well named. it is not so much a question here of drawing lessons from the observed reality as of examining the case of states guilty of not complying with the obligations of a text which today constitutes an unsustainable snare for economic recovery. above all, it is clear that the absolute status of the stability pact is not only motivated by purely economic reasons, but that it is now a genuinely political issue. indeed, who does not see that budgetary balance is not only seen as an economically laudable objective - which is common sense - but that it is erected as a dogma from which no one must deviate, on pain of calling into question the whole of an edifice (the emu) built for primarily political reasons (to set up the first genuinely federalist european structure)? the rapporteur therefore, rather than analysing the current economic realities, wants to make the stability pact more rigorous, in particular by increasing the commission's autonomy in the supervision of the member states. this logic is unacceptable.
in writing. - the european parliament is once again the channel for the urgent requests of the brussels college. a majority of this parliament may wish to see the stability pact applied intelligently and flexibly in the manner proposed by the commission, or it may support the commission in arbitrarily initiating inquisitorial proceedings against states which cannot submit to a zealous interpretation of the provisions of the stability pact, but i cannot go down that road. if i consider that the alleged adjustments introduced by the european commission - adjustments which recognise the existence of a structural component and a component linked to the economic cycle in the budget deficit - are in fact based on the fact that they strengthen the growth pillar without compromising the stability component, i do not forget that this dramatic turnaround is also part of a more general strategy to make the commission the economic government of the union. it goes without saying that i cannot accept such a hypothesis.
- mr president, commissioner, this operation in macedonia has just been presented as a historic milestone in the european union's commitment. i think we need to do a little bit of a downgrade on this ambitious presentation. first, because, quantitatively, it is a relatively small number. this is a mission, if i understand correctly, of less than 500 men, including the commander. secondly, because we have not been able to agree on very specific objectives. we are not even able to agree on the name of this country and i am happy to speak to the greek foreign minister. i ask myself why we should not allow this country to use the name it had when it was a federal republic within the yugoslav entity, since that name would of course not imply any territorial claims or changes in borders. secondly, and above all, the presence of our forces has no really very clear purpose. we are not told in what context this mission might end, because the causes of the conflict are still there, including the gradual albanization of this territory, which was until then predominantly populated by slavs. finally, contrary to what the committee on foreign affairs and security claims, the mission is not really a nato mission. it will be led by the supreme allied command europe from its headquarters, shape. it uses nato's resources. it seems that the united states, which needs its troops in the middle east, has outsourced this operation, now secondary, to its european vassals. i don't think there's much to be proud of.
council on a similar issue, i would like to stress to the honourable member that, like the european parliament, the council reacted swiftly after the prestige accident off the coast of galicia in november 2002. the council takes note of parliament's resolutions and shares most of the principles set out in them. in particular, the council agrees with the objective of avoiding the presence of non-compliant vessels in european union waters. among the measures included in its conclusions of 6 december on ship safety and pollution prevention, the council expressed its support for the work being carried out within the imo framework to develop a flag state code and a mandatory standard control system, with a view to ensuring that flag states fulfil their obligations under international conventions. in general, the council stressed the need to review international rules on the law of the sea and maritime transport, rules which allow certain open-minded experts to tolerate irresponsibility and negligence. the commission may take the initiative and, where appropriate, propose specific measures for ships bearing the so-called 'opportunity seals'. however, the council is convinced that the objective can be achieved by better-designed measures against non-compliant vessels, such as by strengthening port state control. the current legislation allows for the strengthening of port state control based on criteria for the classification of non-compliant ships, which were laid down in the paris mou. this includes the ship's flag. moreover, according to the port state directive, which will enter into force by 22 july 2003 at the latest and is part of the erika i package, member states refuse access to ports to ships of different categories if they fly the flag of a state included in the blacklist published in the annual report of the memorandum of understanding and have already been deposited in the past.
- thank you, mr president, for your input, but let me also stress that the european parliament has also followed all the initiatives of the commission and the council to speed up the implementation of the erika i and erika ii packages. you are referring to the new provisions concerning the imo. but if the european parliament has proposed a ban on flags of convenience, it is because everyone here knows well, from the debates we have had following maritime disasters, that the flag of convenience has this peculiarity that, in the event of a problem, there are enormous difficulties in locating those responsible. it is well known that throughout the chain between the flag, the state, the ship's pilot and the various crews, it is no longer possible to determine who will ultimately be criminally and financially charged, hence parliament's proposal. i'll allow myself to insist. it is true that the commission must take the initiative, but i would like to know how you, as president of the council, will support this proposal from the european parliament.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this evening's report, for which i am very grateful to mrs gröner, deals with a very important subject, because it is at the heart of gender equality policies. it is extremely difficult to implement what the european parliament is proposing with gender mainstreaming, which i translate as transversality in french. first of all, we must recognize the difficulty of making specific policies for women - which is why there is a committee on women's rights in parliament - and at the same time ensuring that these policies have a cross-cutting effect in all committees and in all policy areas. that is what this report proposes. once again europe is a pioneer in this field and we must be extremely attentive to this double challenge. we must walk on two feet and not one: on the one hand, equality, with the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, and on the other hand, transversality and gender mainstreaming, which is extremely difficult. we both check this every day in our respective committees, apart from the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities. this report, and i thank mrs gröner again, proposes a two-level laboratory. on the one hand, it is a question of touching the decision-making process, of ensuring that, as is already the case, i believe, in the commission, gender mainstreaming is applied at all levels within parliament. secondly, the emphasis is not on parity but on gender equality in all areas, thanks to this report which will be voted on in plenary, which i welcome, having myself tabled an amendment for a vote in plenary. this second point seems to me to be equally fundamental. this is why this report is important, both because of its pioneering nature and because it highlights the difficulty of this policy. the informal council last week had already virtually adopted some of the proposals in this report, and i am pleased to see that. i am, however, much less happy with what is happening with enlargement. malta has just been given the right to vote in favour of enlargement, despite its anti-abortion legislation and its restrictive divorce legislation, which seem to be accepted by europe and its 15 member states. it also appears that poland is preparing to retain the prerogatives of its laws on reproductive rights. i wonder about the political will of our 15 member states. it has been said that it is important that we set an example for future member states, but if we cannot ask them to respect a number of acquis with regard to women's rights, that is a matter of great concern to me.
- mr president, we shall vote for this report because it contains a number of good intentions concerning equality between women and men, which it proposes that the european parliament should already be sweeping away at its own door. not only are there half as many women as men in parliament, but in the governing bodies of parliament, the bureau of parliament, the conference of presidents, etc., women are outrageously underrepresented. i would like to stress, however, that to act only at this level would be to touch only the surface of things. in companies there is always a significant difference between men's and women's wages. why do the european institutions, which are able to propose binding directives to facilitate trade and business, not do the same to ensure real wage equality? why do they not impose on all member states, including the most backward ones, this elementary right of women to dispose of their bodies? it would not be enough to stop the development of misogyny and barbaric behaviour towards women, which are growing on the basis of the impoverishment and ghettoization of working-class neighbourhoods, but it would stop the deterioration of women's living conditions.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, speaking this morning on behalf of my group in the debate on consumers and consumer protection, i would like to say once again, as many of my colleagues have done, that if we can agree with the european commission's objectives - a high level of protection, effective enforcement of the rules and effective participation of consumer organizations - we must again note that the proposals made to us are still far too vague and not sufficiently concrete. i therefore largely support the proposals by mr whitehead and mrs patrie, in particular on safety, transport, chemicals, electronic commerce, prior information to be provided in all cases to enable effective defence mechanisms and appropriate remedies to be activated where necessary. i would also like to make a special mention of the readability of the eco-label and, above all, of the very comprehensive information needed on gmos, which, as we know, is a matter of debate among us. i would like to emphasize the toy directive and the control of ce marking. as rapporteur on these matters for several years, i know that the toy directive needs to be revised very quickly and that the ce marking has often lost all meaning because of the lack of sufficient controls. i have written to the commission several times on this subject, but unfortunately i have not received very satisfactory answers. i would also like to make two very clear concerns in the form of substantive criticisms at this stage of the debate on consumer policy and protection. first concern: whatever their interests, consumer protection policies are too closely linked to, and therefore too dependent on, the objective of forcing the way towards the completion of the single market. these policies are rarely objectives in themselves but are more often the consequences of free competition. secondly, these policies are often, if not always, a pretext for erasing, drowning or even eliminating the concept of public service, which is much broader than consumer protection by taking the long term into account, integrating solidarity and spatial planning, particularly through pricing and access conditions. in some countries and in some political groups, the best advocates for consumers are often the best opponents of public services, in the name of free competition and private domination. i therefore wanted to point out this morning, while welcoming the efforts of the european commission and supporting the proposals of our rapporteurs, that there are differences, even fundamental differences.
- mr president, the green paper presented by the commission and the reports presented this morning are moving in the right direction. all the elements necessary to ensure a high level of consumer protection must be established rapidly. they must be sure that their rights are everywhere equally and fully respected. in order to achieve this high level of protection, it is therefore essential to involve representative consumer organisations in the formulation of both community and international policies. as many changes are taking place in the commercial sector, it is imperative that civil society be consulted. it must be able to participate in the debates and influence decisions which are of primary interest to it. the consumer must play an active role through his consumption. it is no longer a question of consuming unconsciously, but of making informed choices. the consumer must therefore be protected, but he must also be informed. to this end, he must be able to access any information he considers essential, for example by being able to obtain information on production processes, including the working conditions of employees. the logos for fair trade or for companies that respect a social charter, established at community level, therefore appear to be valuable and effective instruments, as are those for organic farming. if we want to have an ethical and fair trade, we must remember our commitment to quality products that do not compromise human dignity, in fields as varied as coffee or children's toys, and that meet all the criteria that satisfy the precautionary principle. in this context, the traceability of gmos appears, once again, to be of the most fundamental importance. we must not, as some amendments suggest, allow consumers to trust gmos more and more. on the contrary, our duty is to protect consumers and to provide them with comprehensive and unmistakable information enabling them to make informed and conscientious choices for themselves and their children. we must also stress the need for citizen consumers to participate in the establishment of a sustainable model of society. we must not reduce the citizen to a mere consumer. on the contrary, it must be a full participant in determining the needs which then constitute a real choice of society.
- mr president, with the legal protection of consumers we are tackling a vast and ambitious project which must lead to a high level of protection. a high level does not necessarily mean uniform protection. we believe that it must respect the principles of subsidiarity, necessity and proportionality. i am in favour of minimum harmonization, which does not prevent each member state from introducing legislation which best suits its identity. i also share the idea of systematically using article 151 (3) of the treaty, which should become the sole legal basis for legislation. we must stop systematically using article 95 which deals only with the single market. ensuring universal and affordable access to high quality services for all citizens is one of our key demands. let's demand that the wto not dismantle our public services. i also approve of the wto labelling as a means of providing information on origin and method of production. i am, however, reserved about the creation of a european consumer centre which would work in tandem with the national organisations, which are playing their part well and would benefit from networking. i am also concerned about the content of the thyssen report: asking the commission to carry out an impact study on the possibility of maximum harmonisation seems unrealistic. similarly, a link should be made between consumer protection and the sales promotion regulation. as far as the introduction of codes of conduct is concerned, the idea does not seem to me to be a viable one at present. where do these codes of conduct get their legitimacy? and how do we ensure their sustainability ? these are all questions which justify not pursuing them further.
mr president, i think we can look forward to the discussion we have today on the green paper and the strategy proposed by the commission on consumer policy. we welcome this because, with enlargement and therefore the extension of the internal market, it is clear that it is important to harmonize community legislation on consumer matters. we also know the role of consumption in the economy. god knows we need it today! however, studies have shown that, outside crossborder areas, the european consumer does not know how to use the benefits of the european union. then why did you do it ? simply because it still lacks confidence, because it does not always have the relevant information and data on products and services and because it does not always have the means to know the quality of products, price references; because, especially in the event of a dispute, he does not know which court will be competent. so all this means that the consumer does not take advantage of these possibilities offered by europe, whereas, on the other hand, he needs knowledge, information and is quite willing to behave as a citizen, respectful of eco-labels for example. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a dispute between the consumer and the consumer. we therefore support better, clearer consumer information in the consumer's own language, so that he can make a fully informed choice. developing a framework strategy for the consumer also means ensuring his legal protection, putting an end to litigation which is linked to unfair business practices and protecting the companies themselves. we therefore welcome a high level of consumer protection, the transparency that will be achieved through the associations and we expect a lot from the commission. we can assure you, commissioner, that we will be behind you in monitoring this consumer policy.
- mr president, i welcome the in-depth work done by my colleagues whitehead, patrie and thyssen on the implications of the green paper for consumer protection. we support the call for simpler and more targeted legislation to facilitate the implementation of the internal market legislative arsenal, which we believe is lacking in transparency and is too fragmented to inspire consumer confidence. we welcome the emergence of the concept of citizen consumers and i would remind you that their fundamental rights are the right to safety, information, freedom of choice, representation, redress, satisfaction and a clean environment. the consumption of the future must take account of the three pillars of sustainable development: economic, ecological and social, the latter two being still too often neglected. i propose that we consider the feasibility of a general directive on the environmental quality of consumer products and services, taking account in particular of a european label and a high level of protection. we believe that the citizen consumer must become a central element, not only as a consumer but also as a decision-maker, as an engaged consumer concerned about the ethical level of the product he consumes. in this sense, it will become one of the main and indispensable actors in this development which we want to be sustainable.
- i'll take note and notify the appropriate services.
- i think, mr president, that you would find it difficult to quote the article which allows you to make such a procedural motion. i hope, however, that this will have helped all our colleagues to get back to their seats, because i have a statement to make to you.
- i would like to read to you a message from mr pat cox, president of the european parliament, following the assassination of mr zoran dzindzic. 'i was shocked to hear of the assassination of the serbian prime minister, mr zoran dzindzic, and i strongly condemn this act. i hope that the perpetrators will be brought to justice soon. zoran dzindzic was in many ways the symbol of the new democratic state of serbia. he will be remembered in particular for his personal commitment to democratic reform in serbia and for his role in the arrest and transfer of slobodan milosevic to the hague criminal court. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express my sincere condolences to the family of mr zoran dzindzic, his friends and the serbian people. "ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask you to observe a minute's silence. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.) composition of parliament - amendments to the agenda for the sitting of 26 march in brussels - authorisation to draw up a recommendation - common positions of the council: see minutes.
- mr von wogau, that was not a procedural motion. (parliament adopted the resolution)
- is there any objection to the oral amendment tabled by our rapporteur? (parliament adopted the resolution)
in writing. - the friedrich report is right on two counts: firstly, that the current voting system in the governing council of the ecb ("one member, one vote") will be unmanageable after the enlargement of the euro area; the reform proposed today by the ecb itself (the system of allocating countries into groups, with differentiated rotations) is obscure, complex and very difficult to make work too. but this report omits two important points: firstly, the 'one governor, one vote' system was deliberately inserted into the maastricht treaty to present the model, supposedly attractive to the voter, of a monetary union which operates on an egalitarian basis; secondly, this model, which did not wait for enlargement, is already working very badly today, and it is largely responsible for the ecb's inertia in dealing with the problems of the largest economy in the euro area, germany. the reform proposed by the ecb is therefore, with technical exceptions, far from trivial. the alternative suggested by mr friedrich (the introduction of a weighting of votes according to the population) calls into question an essential principle of equality solemnly adopted by the peoples. that is why we are asking for more than a debate that has been sent to the cleaners.
in writing. - we voted for the bösch report on the protection of the communities' financial interests because it is a serious and solid report, which lists some of the commission's dysfunctions or some very impressive cases of fraud, confirming what we have been saying for a long time. during the session it was revealed that documents had been withheld from the european parliament in the andreasen case (contested dismissal of a commission accounting officer who had complained of practices which were out of line with normal accounting standards). we protest against this cover-up. it is therefore possible that this scandal will worsen and add to the burden of the bösch report. we are, however, wary of reaffirming the traditional call - which is also discreet in the bösch report - for the establishment of a european public prosecutor. without entering into the debate here, i would just like to point out that the working party concerned within the convention, despite its good federalist intentions, also found this proposal questionable. we can also be effective through other means (eurojust, etc.) which will have the merit of not creating institutional problems in the chain.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. the problem of closing down companies that have received financial aid from the european union is unfortunately a frequent - and increasingly frequent - headline item in the newspapers. this problem is not new, but it is true that cases of closures, often followed by relocations, have been increasing recently. the commission therefore fully understands that this problem, which rightly concerns our fellow citizens, is of great importance and considerable interest to the european parliament. my colleagues, mrs anna diamantopoulou and mr michel barnier, have asked me to explain to you the commission's position on this complex problem. it is clear that several different aspects are involved: firstly, the policy of economic and social cohesion through co-financing from the structural funds; secondly, european social policy; but also, thirdly, the rules of the european internal market, which are intended to enable our companies to develop in a climate of fair competition. i would like to concentrate on these questions in my statement, but first i would like to address two other points. firstly, the problem of closures of firms - even if it also directly affects the community as a result of the financial aid granted - is not a purely european phenomenon but one which must also be considered in an international context. unfortunately, our companies often succumb to the temptation to move their operations to low-wage countries, sometimes in defiance of any social or environmental considerations. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east, and the european council has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. secondly, the commission pays particular attention to this problem in the context of enlargement. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. in a single market such as ours, the decision on the location of a company is left to the management of the company. we know that investors base their decisions on the comparative advantages of the location: these include wage costs, social climate, quality of infrastructure, applicable legal framework, but often also public aid and tax benefits. the subsidies which may be granted to investors are freely negotiated with the public authorities within the framework of community and national state aid legislation. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion of equal opportunities is a good one. the regional aid granted for productive investment is therefore intended primarily to compensate for the handicaps of the assisted regions, in order to enable them to compete more effectively with the more developed regions. in this field, the commission can only ensure the implementation of the general provisions on the structural funds, which have been adopted by the council in agreement with the european parliament. this is also in line with the practice at national level, where each region is constantly trying to attract new enterprises and direct investment. it is also the commission's responsibility to prevent unfair competition between states, economic operators and social actors. the structural funds have therefore provided for a number of preventive measures for the 2000-2006 programming period, which i would like to recall briefly. the guidelines on national regional aid provide that the beneficiaries of such aid must maintain their investments for a period of at least five years. this period begins when the investment is first put into operation in the undertaking concerned. the general structural funds regulation of 1999 is moving in the same direction. it states that the funds will continue to contribute to productive activities only if the location of those activities does not change during the five years following the decision on the structural funds' contribution. finally, the new regulation on employment aid, which was adopted in 2002, is somewhat more flexible. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. all these rules must also be applied in the future member states from the date of accession. for the sake of completeness, i would point out that the five-year rule just mentioned concerns only the programming period 2000-2006. for the period 1994-99, community assistance may be reduced or withdrawn if the conditions for implementing the measure no longer exist. in all cases, neither the commission nor the member states may refuse to grant a subsidy if the necessary conditions are met. however, if it is found that a beneficiary company has not complied with the community rules on state aid, it must repay the aid it has wrongly received. the commission is therefore prepared to accept its responsibility if an undertaking has unlawfully received subsidies under an aid scheme co-financed by a community programme. this is, however, subject to the authorities of the country from which the company has migrated having first established an infringement on the basis of the points described above. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment. although closure of a plant is undoubtedly a matter for the management of the company concerned, we must not forget that the many restructuring operations currently carried out in europe are not all comparable. some are the result of clear economic decisions which have been openly discussed with the workers and their representatives, others are unfortunately carried out in defiance of labour law and sometimes push people into unemployment. the commission's position is clear: while companies are free to make their economic choices, they must always be aware of the social dimension. when redundancies seem inevitable, every effort must be made to increase the mediation capacity of the employees concerned. this requires a forward-looking and thoughtful policy on the part of companies, and they must also demonstrate social responsibility. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the framework within which this dialogue must take place is laid down in several community directives. in particular, the directive on the establishment of a european works council imposes specific obligations on multinational groups established in europe to inform and consult employees' representatives. finally, the social measures accompanying restructuring are also an important issue for the social partners and for the new european observatory for industrial change. but here too the commission is dependent on the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's labour law is respected. the commission will, however, exercise its control function fully, in particular to prevent the directives on information and consultation of workers from being insufficiently implemented. (applause from the centre)
mr fischler, whose analysis i do not share, is with us because i believe that the union has strong levers to influence the companies which are subsidized by europe and which are relocating. i also think that we cannot keep on talking about globalisation because, in the end, this debate involves the socioeconomic future of our entire community by raising the question of european policy, of the legal framework adopted in the face of the background of globalisation, of a liberalism without borders and without principles. the union remains the most relevant partner and actor available to us in the face of these global phenomena. we must say it and we must believe it and what you are proposing will not suffice today. many legislative frameworks still need to be put in place to provide minimum guarantees for investors in europe, and thus guarantee job security and sustainability for millions of our fellow citizens. in view of the recent industrial earthquakes which have devastated many regions of our member states, from portugal to my home in lorraine, and which are now affecting the applicant countries themselves, we must clear up this background of economic injustice and establish a new balance between community institutions and private investors. we, the elected representatives of these particular regions, can no longer tolerate the european union remaining a wild west for community bounty hunters who are taking public funds to invest in job pools and are now gangrenously relocating all industrial sectors. the steel and textile industries are not the only ones that are synonymous with industrial desertification. the service sector is now added, with high value-added companies such as daewoo and philips. what will be left tomorrow if the european union fails to take its investment flows under control, if it admits that it is incapable of deploying a code of "rights and duties" in every negotiation of its subsidies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it may be recalled, for example, that from 1988 to 1995, the employment area of longwy in lorraine, so traumatized by the crisis in its heavy industry, had not required any guarantee to welcome daewoo, albeit with a large increase in community aid. it is without embarrassment and without constraint that daewoo is simply dropping its employees today. the framework for this aid has since been strengthened, but it is clearly not yet sufficient, nor are your proposals, commissioner, to restore the confidence of our fellow citizens in the european union's social policy and to strengthen the vigilance of community legislation in order to guarantee the working and social life frameworks of our area of training. the european union must no longer be reduced to a cash drawer, but must now hammer like others in their time i want my money back in the face of the flippant community finances. the sustainable development of our continent, which remains its only long-term prospect, is understood in the triple sense of a social policy of progress, respect for the environment and a solidary and regulated economic policy. let us sell the bad practices of the past, and that is what you are not doing, commissioner. we must now force companies to repay those who have not fulfilled the commitments they have given. that will be the price of europe, but it will be the price of europe's future.
- mr president, this resolution takes it for granted that the european institutions grant public aid to private enterprises, even if they want some control over the use of this aid. i am opposed to the use of public funds to increase private profit. public money, whether from the states or the european institutions, must be reserved for public services. of course, it would be the last thing to do to demand the reimbursement of subsidies to companies that do not meet their obligations, especially those that lay off workers after receiving public money. it is the least we can do to refuse subsidies to firms which, after receiving aid in one member state, transfer their production to another. but the root of the problem isn't even there. it is in the current increase in collective redundancies. it is unacceptable that an employer, a board of directors, can take the decision to turn workers into unemployed simply to increase the profits of a company. it is unacceptable to destroy lives, to ruin regions to ensure higher dividends to shareholders. mr fischler, i ask the question: what are the european institutions for if they are powerless to deal with this vital problem? what power do they have if they cannot or will not force at least the big companies which make a profit to keep their workforce by prohibiting them from carrying out mass redundancies?
- mr president, commissioner, it is regrettable that, on the occasion of this new resolution on a country in south-east asia, there are once again serious and growing shortcomings in democracy and human rights which our parliament must condemn. cambodia, despite the promising prospects that could have been predicted for it at one time, is dangerously locked in under the influence of an authoritarian junta, similar to those of its laotian and burmese neighbours. while the democratic ferment is a deterrent to war, the juxtaposition of despotic regimes here is a dangerous threat to the entire asian subregion. how else can we interpret the open crisis between cambodia and thailand, which has resulted in the looting of the thai embassy and thai property on cambodian soil and the closure of the land borders between the two countries? this border conflict is a reflection of what is happening daily in cambodian society, a mosaic of ethnicities and cultural and religious pluralities, which has been deliberately and severely weakened by the coup leader hun sen: state violence and persecution of all kinds, culminating recently in the murder of mr om radsady, adviser to the president of the national assembly, in the middle of the street. europe must use its many resources to stabilise this country and, beyond that, the whole of this region, and particularly at the time of the elections. let us remember that cambodia is the first recipient of aid in this region.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, given the situation in burma, as described by our colleague, one can imagine the expectations and hopes that this strong resolution on the lawless state of burma must arouse in burmese civil society. and what a fear it should provoke in the ruling military junta, if this resolution determines the policy of the european union towards burma. so far, the european union's actions to improve living conditions in burma, to try to humanize the situation of its millions of inhabitants, have been reduced to formulae of principle, to political declarations which have never been followed by effect. the european union is therefore politically and morally responsible, and perhaps it should be, even to the point of criminal responsibility. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. are not european companies cynically exploiting the workforce of this prison state, which has become a widespread forced labour camp, where the notion of citizen is no longer even relevant? it is true that we are far from the european continent, far from european legislation! yet, although we are aware of the totalitarian context of the burmese regime and the resolutions to be adopted are coming from all quarters, the status quo of non-justice continues under the burmese sun. the economic and industrial lever of the european union should be used to prohibit any investment by member countries in undemocratic regimes. the industrial policy of the member states must be moralised. it is also the community's political and diplomatic force that should be deployed throughout this asian region which has shared its history with some of the member states and whose view of europe remains so important for its development. it is in the context of the present that we should consider the criminals in power in burma, in the framework of the international criminal court now working in a permanent way to prosecute all those accused of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. this is no time for declarations of principle. the european union owes more than that to the sakharov prize and the nobel peace prize, aung san suu kyi, to the 1200 political prisoners, and through them, to the millions of burmese citizens. this resolution is very strong and very comprehensive. each paragraph must serve as a framework for a genuine community policy against the military junta and thus in favour of burmese civil society.
- madam president, once again this parliament is called upon, and finds itself under the burning obligation, to denounce the intolerable situation of a woman, amina lawal, condemned to death by stoning in nigeria for having exercised her freedom. what can i say, what can i add to what my colleagues have just said, if not to denounce again and again the intolerable situation of women, which justifies, because it is still necessary, the struggles waged in the context of international women's days! the intolerable situation which obliges us to reaffirm our radical opposition to the death penalty; the situation is intolerable and it is necessary to remind the house that a court of justice, whether in nigeria or in any other country in the world, cannot invoke religious principles in order to violate all the principles of absolute respect for human rights and respect for the dignity of the human person. this unfortunately brings us back to the obscurantism of the middle ages that our countries have also known. we must denounce again and again this intolerable situation of women, which leads us to reaffirm our adherence to the principle of secularism as the major organizing principle of modern and democratic states. madam president, commissioner, we are waiting for the nigerian government to declare that the application of sharia law by a regional court is contrary to the constitution of their country. to this end, we remind the council that respect for human rights is a fundamental element of agreements concluded with third countries. beyond the situation of amina lawal in nigeria, all those around the world who see their basic rights violated are waiting for the european union to translate into action the resolutions we adopt in this house, session after session. i fully agree with the questions raised by my colleague, anna karamanou. beyond the resolutions, commissioner - but this is also addressed to the council's officials - what are our real actions?
the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. the commission naturally shares parliament's concern about the nature of the punishments imposed in northern nigeria under sharia law. the commission has contacted the nigerian government in a number of cases, including the amina lawal case, and our president prodi himself has contacted president obasanjo directly, who has also spoken out against the penalties and has pointed out that all complainants have the right to bring the case before the supreme court. the commission also welcomes the statement made by the nigerian minister of justice last year that it is not right to discriminate against muslims by punishing them differently for the same offence. in the case of amina lawal, the appeal procedure is set for 25 march, as several members have already stated in their contributions. amina lawal has been given legal counsel and will also have the opportunity to continue her appeal at a higher level if necessary. we are following this case with the greatest attention through our delegation in abuja. we are not, however, referring directly to cases which are still pending, but preferring to urge the nigerian federal government to abolish the death penalty altogether. the sharia legal system in nigeria is a complex and sensitive issue. the situation is also very difficult from a constitutional point of view, as there are contradictions between the state's sharia law and the constitution, as well as the international commitments entered into by the federal government of nigeria. the country is divided socially into a muslim north and a christian south, and the issue is politically very charged and highly sensitive this year because elections are also being held. the commission has funded a study which has shown that the application of sharia as criminal law is made more problematic by the fact that this criminal law is poorly drafted and is applied in an inconsistent manner by poorly trained judges. the eu has developed a common position on the human rights issue in nigeria, drafted a troika demarche on the death penalty and delivered an official statement in the commission on human rights. the respect of the principles of the cotonou agreement is also monitored with the greatest attention. the commission is also directly involved and signed a country strategy paper and a cooperation programme with nigeria in july last year. it lists human rights and good governance as key areas. it also provides for support for civil society. in addition, nigeria is one of the priority countries of the european initiative for democracy and human rights and a number of projects to support government and judicial reform will be adopted shortly. in this way we hope to be able to influence positively the understanding and application of fundamental human rights by the federal government of nigeria and the individual states of the federal republic of nigeria and to turn things around for the better. (applause from the centre)
- thank you, chief. the debate is closed. the vote will take place in a moment.
- are there any objections to the consideration of this oral amendment ? (parliament adopted the joint resolution) the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
- mr knolle, we'll contact the relevant services to make sure that the instructions have been followed.
- the agenda is exhausted. i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 5.25 p.m.) submissions to committees - authorization to draw up reports - cooperation between parliamentary committees - statements entered in the register (rule 51) - forwarding of texts adopted during the sitting - calendar of next sittings: see minutes
- mr president, for a very brief procedural motion, if i may. having a debate, as you have requested, is excellent, but a parliament must express its position by a vote. we must give the various groups the opportunity to table resolutions and to express the conclusion of this debate by a vote. otherwise, this conversation will have no effect.
- mr president, i applaud that statement. i think we need a resolution to define the position of this parliament in the face of a war which is going to destroy a people. (applause from the left)
mr president, it was daybreak in baghdad this morning when the population - these men, women and children whom some of us here have met, seen live and questioned a few weeks ago, and whose faces come to mind in these tragic hours - were roused from their sleep by the deafening and unbearable sound of the first bombs. they know that 3,000 missiles are going to be dropped on iraq in the first phase of the war. they expect to see, or see again, the terrible noria of f-15s, f-16s, b-1s, b-2s, b-52s, awacks, apaches, coming down on their country. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the situation in iraq, and i am sure that the council will be able to support the commission's proposal. perhaps some of the 600 journalists embedded in the armed forces will go so far as to deliver some scenes of popular rejoicing: iraqis welcoming their liberators with sweets and flowers, as promised to george w. bush, kanan makiya, a leading figure of pro-american iraqi exiles. the new york times magazine tells us about this presidential adviser who has lived in cambridge since 1968, that he spent a large part of his time in the white house last january explaining to his distinguished host that there are two kinds of muslims in iraq: shiites and sunnis. that is, if the knowledge of this country and the reflection on its future are pushed far to the top of american power! and these are the people who claim to decide for the international community, war or peace. what prospects do they offer the iraqi people? the overthrow of saddam hussein? the iraqi people will probably not mourn the dictator. but then what? a long-term us military occupation in one of the largest and most iconic arab countries? who would have thought that would be accepted ? and what prospects do they offer for the world at large? the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action against terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action against terrorism. do we realise what a destabilising situation we are in for the whole region and threatening the security of the entire planet ? a superpower with a balance of power unprecedented in history is openly asserting itself as an imperial power, even if it is only exacerbating divisions, fueling world disorder and fueling terrorism. history will record that public opinion worldwide has strongly expressed and mobilized against this irresponsible policy. it will be noted that courageous voices have been heard, including those of the churches. it will be remembered that statesmen have dared to say no and to stand firm in the face of pressure, slander, or even threats. what is to be remembered of europe in these historic circumstances? this morning, i confess, i did not hear anything on the essentials. will europe dare to call for an immediate end to this unjust, illegal and dangerous war? what does it say about the fate of the iraqi population, including kurdish and iranian refugees who may be threatened by this war? unanimity or not among the fifteen, there are issues which europe can and must take up in any case, because they are part of the very foundations of our international system in force since 1945 and of the right which it embodies in the eyes of all democracies. europe must also express its opinion on the new strategic doctrine of the bush administration, which magnifies military force, justifies unilateralism and legitimises preventive war. it must vigorously oppose the very serious precedent set by the fact that the us secretary of defence does not rule out the use of tactical nuclear weapons or nerve gas in iraq. it must clearly denounce the irresponsible decision taken unilaterally by a group of states, including two member states, to start a war without the approval of the un security council, and even against the opinion of the overwhelming majority of its members. it must be committed in a much more aggressive way to the effective relaunch of the peace process in the middle east and to a just and lasting solution to the palestinian problem. but allowing the war in iraq to continue is opening the way for the worst in the middle east. we are opening the gates of hell, warned the president of the arab league. the only european institution that has taken a stand on this war is our parliament. (applause from the left) i would remind you of the terms of our resolution adopted on 30 january last, in which the european parliament reaffirmed its commitment to peace and international law; fully supported the work of hans blix and el baradei; considered that the violations of resolution 1441 currently identified by inspectors did not justify the launching of military action; the european council also expressed its opposition to any unilateral military action and considered that a pre-emptive strike would be contrary to international law and the un charter and would lead to a more serious crisis involving other countries in the region. this, at least, provides our president with the basis for a clear, explicit and strong intervention at today's european council. but that doesn't make us even. in the face of the very serious events unfolding before our eyes, which are likely to escalate dramatically, we must take responsibility for putting an end to the logic of war. the old europe must show itself capable of bringing forth the vision of a new world. let us heed the urgent appeals of our fellow citizens. that's what they expect us to do. (applause from the left)
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this morning i feel a sense of sadness, as well as a sense of discomfort. i am sad because, as others have said long before me, war is always a failure and unfortunately what happens can only fill us with sadness and also give us a feeling of dissatisfaction. but i feel a little uneasy because, in the end, i think we've all been kind of abused. for weeks and months there has been talk of efforts to achieve the disarmament of iraq by peaceful means, when in reality the decision to intervene militarily by the united states was, in my opinion, taken long ago. the report by the james baker institute last december, for example, sets out the principles of us policy on iraq after the war. so i believe the decision to use force was made several months ago. we were brought into discussions about disarmament by peaceful means, and that's what allowed the united states to assemble its forces. the question we are faced with, however, is not, as commissioner patten said a moment ago, whether we want to be with the americans or against them, whether we want to be in agreement with the americans or not. it is much simpler: do you want, do we want a europe independent of the united states? if so, we must ask the peoples, and we have seen in recent days that the peoples are willing to raise their voices and respond. only the peoples will enable us to advance the construction of an independent europe, that is to say, one which is not the adversary of the united states but its partner on an equal footing. today we are told that iraq is dividing the european union. no, ladies and gentlemen, iraq is not dividing the european union! the iraq case is a bit of a wake-up call. the european union is deeply divided. there are some european states which will always prefer an alliance with the united states to the building of an independent europe. this is the reality. and it's because we never had the courage, our governments never had the courage to engage in the debate about this that we have witnessed the spectacle that we know. it is not the fault of france or germany. it is the fault of all those who have been leading the countries of the european union for more than forty years and who have never gone to the bottom of the problem. we'll have to decide to ask him. but if you want an independent europe, you must know that it comes at a price. we cannot at the same time want europe's independence and rely on the united states for its security. because they are the ones who bear the consequences of the military organization in case of serious problems. if the european union is to exist, it must provide itself with the means to do so. these are the things as they are; these are the realities! everything else is secondary. we can have a lot of meetings, the european union can consider itself a super-ngo, all of that is very good. but given her history, she should have a different calling than that. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, the united nations disqualified, nato pulverized, the european union decomposed, that is, ladies and gentlemen, the big story of the day: it is not the war, or more precisely the international ruse which is said, wrongly, to have begun last night, when iraq has been bombarded every day for the last twelve years by the empire - i mean the empire and its minions. the great event of the day is not the madness of the empire, the american empire to which we europeans have cowardly given all the keys to the world for years, remaining fascinated, despite their slow totalitarian drift, by their culture, their images and their language. no, the news is that the old dream of multilateralism and collective security, which had animated the entire 20th century, is now gone. like the nds in the past, the un is sinking into insignificance. the international community is a hollow formula for the empire and its anglo-saxon minions. the only remaining countries are the states and, to save europe's honour, only france, together with belgium and germany. so we have only one thing to say here in this rather ridiculous debate: 'the european union is dying. long live the sovereignty of the nations of the world ! long live the iraqi nation ! and long live the french!
- mr president, nothing will have deterred the american government and its british and spanish accomplices from launching a pre-emptive war against iraq on the pretext - which everyone knows is a lie - that iraq would constitute an imminent threat to the united states and indeed to the whole world. the truth is that since the end of the gulf war, as mr cousteaux has said, the united states has been conducting military operations, including air strikes, against iraqi targets, causing civilian casualties, and this in the middle of peace. at the same time, they have been guilty, through a ferocious blockade, of a veritable genocide which, according to the un itself, has caused the death of over a million iraqi children. the intention, now cynically expressed in the first hours of the conflict, to assassinate the iraqi political leaders is a new step in the march towards barbarism. the leaders of the coalition will therefore neither be surprised nor outraged that they are now the first targets of terrorist reprisals. the crisis has shown the futility of the european union, torn by the antagonistic positions of its members, and it has shown that with medium powers, if they cannot become a great power, they can become a great powerlessness. let those in our countries who work for peace call, as was done during the korean war, for an extraordinary session of the united nations general assembly. we may only be able to talk about it, but it will be something done for peace.
mr president, today's circumstances give great force to the first images of roman polanski's film, "the pianist", which was released last year, showing the happiness of a polish family sipping champagne at the announcement of the entry into the war of the french and british to help polish democracy in september 1939. the rest of the movie shows how much this family will be tested. these images are useful because they temper, and as it were humanize, the confidence we can have today in a cause that is finally just and a hope for a democratic future for iraq. because, ultimately, the fighting that begins will be between the soldiers of democratic states and a totalitarian state. and in such a situation, equidistance is not possible. mr president, war is evil. but there are circumstances when it can be a lesser evil. war is here and europe has not been able to prevent it. that said, we must do everything, europe must do everything to make this war a lesser evil.
- mr president, so after months and years of negotiations, diplomacy has failed to peacefully disarm the iraqi regime. but given the nature of the regime, this laudable objective was probably impossible to achieve, because saddam hussein is too inclined to interpret any search for peace as a sign of weakness on the part of his interlocutors. we could therefore regret very much the method we have chosen. at the top of the list should probably be the european union's own approval of the 1999 intervention in kosovo, which set a precedent by standing outside un procedures, much more so than the current intervention in iraq, which can invoke at least resolution 1441. but today, we have to move past the regrets. let us not be misled. the odious regime of saddam hussein is the main culprit in the present situation and it is he, as past history has repeatedly shown, who attracts the scourge of war like a storm cloud. now we must do everything we can to preserve both the civilian population and the future of an iraq free from despotism. in this context, mr president, the european council meeting this afternoon would do itself the honour of recalling these objectives and rallying around them.
mr president, it must be said that there is no legal justification for the unilateral decision of the united states to resort to immediate war, since the objectives pursued could have been achieved by other means. the inspections produced clear results and opened the way, in mr blix's own words, to a genuine disarmament of iraq without the need to engage in armed conflict. president chirac and the french diplomatic establishment have repeatedly and unequivocally condemned the regime of saddam hussein. they have also been constantly concerned to give full meaning to security council resolution 1441 by repeatedly proposing to strengthen the physical or legal means of inspections. the position advocated by france is shared by a large part of the international community, and the security council, the only legal authority empowered to legitimize the use of force at international level, has never had the necessary majority to endorse a hasty recourse to war. i am appalled at the human cost of such a war, both to the civilian population of iraq, which has already been particularly hard hit, and to the british and american armed forces. in the event of a chemical or bacteriological attack, france will be able to provide them with all its support in terms of humanitarian assistance. but such a conflict calls into question fifty years of building a world based on law and collective security. the conflict also poses serious risks to the political stability of the middle east as a whole, as well as the risk of a possible resurgence of devastating terrorism on a global scale. we can only hope that it will end as soon as possible. on this sad day, i am extremely proud to be french, because my country has worked tirelessly to try to avoid this unnecessary war. (applause from the right)
- mr president, i was surprised to see a banner during a debate in a school in germany that reminded me of a time, a long time ago, when we were demonstrating. the banner read: "bombing for peace is like making love for virginity". i say it in french, because it's more elegant than in english. but you can all translate into english. (laughter) you're right, mr. president, this war is an intellectual challenge -- i would even say a physical one -- because, obviously, we're all losing our intellectual capacity in the face of our divisions. it is obvious that some of the statements made by the council, and even some of the statements made by members of this parliament, are totally surreal. it is obvious, mr watson, that we are in favour of humanitarian aid and that is the only point on which everyone agrees. when we talk about what we agree on, it's humanitarian aid. but the problem we face today is very simple: will this parliament tomorrow give a clear opinion on this war? will this parliament tomorrow be as ridiculous as the council of ministers or the general affairs council, or will we have a majority? and by that i mean those who do not want a majority at any cost. give them five minutes to think. there are two simple positions to have. the first is the coalition of those who want war because they consider it important, necessary, as we said earlier. let them vote for a resolution that says: go ahead, go ahead, mr rumsfeld or mr untel, you're right, for god's sake, go free the whole world and show that you can make love while keeping your virginity. it's their right. the second position is to find a majority in this parliament to say no to the logic of war, a majority like the one we got together at the end of january to say that the war was illegitimate. (applause) so to get a majority against war, you have to be able to compromise. otherwise, our intellectual deficiency is exactly the same as that of the council in brussels. that is the problem today. but it's simple. some say that the war is not legitimate under the united nations, and others say that it is illegal and illegitimate. i am saying that they are the same thing and that it is only the ideologues of this parliament who want to show that there is a difference between all these phrases. of course, having found that this war has no legitimacy from the un, we can say that it is illegitimate! so it's obvious that if we pass this motion, we'll have won a game. as regards the text of the resolution, there is a great debate as to whether we should say that we strongly deplore or condemn the fact that unilaterally britain, the united states, spain, italy, poland - and i do not know exactly who else - decided that the war was good, made that decision. the important thing for me is to say in this resolution that the logic of inspections should have been continued and that we are against all those who have broken this logic by launching the logic of war. so for me, it's not a question of vocabulary. i would like to conclude by saying something important. there are lies that continue to be told by heads of government: if the security council did not vote for the resolution presented by the united states, britain and spain, it is not because of the french or russian veto, but because there was no moral majority in the security council in favour of starting the war. that 's the truth ! (applause) i would like to thank on this basis, chile and mexico, which are economically dependent on the united states, took the courageous position of proposing a resolution which was precisely within the logic of inspections. so i say that this parliament, when it decides tomorrow, will also decide on this lie which has a long life, this lie which is being perpetuated by the british, spanish or whoever else's foreign ministers. the moral majority for intervention in the kosovo conflict - 13 to 2 - did not express itself at the security council on military intervention in iraq. that is the historical truth. the rest is just a shameless lie by government leaders who are afraid of their own people. you have to tell it like it is. i hope that tomorrow this parliament will have the intelligence to vote in such a way that we can say that those who are in favour of war have been defeated and made into a minority. if we win, we'll have won more than a battle of words, and each group will then be able to defend the whole with its ideology. this moral victory over those who advocate war, we can win it tomorrow, if we are able to make compromises. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, it seems to me that there is a certain masochism in the way in which the debates following the european summits are conducted, which are, in reality, as the greek presidency has said, nothing but summits of hypocrisy. the point of this chronicle of a foreseen decomposition is that europe, for once and in any case institutional europe, has spoken, if not with one voice, it has said the same thing. the european parliament, on 31 january, the european council, on 17 february, the commission, first by the vote of commissioner patten and then by yours, mr prodi, have spoken in favour of a line, the line defended by france, germany and belgium, that is to say, the rule of law defended in the united nations security council. for the first time, institutional europe has found itself in the unison of the peoples of europe, who, in their immense majority, i would even say unanimously, have taken the same line, thus marking for the first time, and in my opinion for the first time, the birth of a european political opinion. yes, europe has spoken with one voice, and better yet, with one voice. so what ? mr. prodi, we're giving mussolini a speech that is not in his best interest. he would have said: after all, governing italy is not so difficult; the problem is, it's not working. i think that our europe is becoming an italy to the 15th power, before it became an italy to the 25th power or even more. the problem, you see, is not as simple as mr simitis thinks. we are not in a farming marathon, where we are trying to decide between carrots and turnips. mr. simitis, your speech was unworthy of your office. for the first time since the treaty of rome, europe is divided over objectives, not methods, means or timetables. one half of europe has become antagonistic to the other, and that is the problem: two conceptions of law, two worldviews, two cosmogonies - that is a greek word, mr simitis - which are opposed. you may have seen in this room signs with, on the one hand, stop the killers, and, on the other, give a chance to war. do you think it's all about carrots and turnips when we disagree so much about the ending of the movie? the language of wood, mr simitis, when it is european, is nevertheless the language of wood. mr prodi, you speak of european defence. there's a lot of talk about it. why not ? why not ? the last chance for europe is to create a defence, a european defence. but i am telling you here that this debate will take place in other forums, including the convention. it is as illusory to want to make european defence in nato as it would have been to want to make the european single currency in fort knox.
- mr president, the brussels summit treated economic growth in europe in a surrealist way, regardless of the implications of the war in iraq, as if the one was not closely dependent on the other. the central question of the war has been relegated to the annexes, which confirms, if need be, that the european union as such is not an actor in international diplomacy. in view of the conclusions of the summit on iraq, it appears rather like a humanitarian ngo. the exaltation of the cfsp, which appears in conclusion 69, is clearly a sign of what the surrealist writers called automatic writing. it is not in the interests of europe to hide by such words of common sense the fact that our continent is now, with the question of iraq, a field of emblematic confrontation between two visions of what europe's place in the world should be, and what the international system itself should be. independent or aligned europe, unilateralism or concerted action by nations, europe is today at the heart of a fundamental debate which concerns the future of the entire international community. for if the european union is absent from this debate, europe is, with the united states, the major player in it through two troika - paris-berlin-moscow on the one hand, london-madrid-rome on the other - each of which has its own coherence and support expressed in the new york memorandum, on the one hand, and the azores declaration, on the other. why treat the existence of these two voices in the mode of exclusive lamentation? this is a monolithic vision of europe, whereas diversity has always been its characteristic feature. we would deserve the contemptuous label of old europe if we showed that we can no longer stand being the privileged place where different conceptions of the organization of the world clash and that we only think of escaping the shock of confrontation, in the exclusive interest of soft and insignificant consensus. so robert kagan would be right: it does not matter if what europe says is meaningless, as long as it says it with one voice. is that our goal? would being european mean stifling any differences of opinion? why should the free play of competition not also apply to foreign policy ? if the european union, in the name of the duty of uniformity, were to push europe to shelter itself from the great debates on the world of tomorrow, preventing it from being the focus of them, it would not be doing the europeans a service, mr president.
- mr. president, during the war, congress is having fun, as they used to say in 1815. this is the historical reference that could be thrown in the face of the members of the council, whose indecent summary document mentions the word iraq only from the 31st of the 36 pages that make up the presidency's conclusions. your eloquent oral statement, mr president-in-office, is a statement of failure and impotence. the war is here, a major event, a major event, for which the members of the union, led by great britain, are directly responsible. you say there's nothing we can do. let's talk about something else. yet, there is much to be said now that the lies that the anglo-american empire used to justify its brutal aggression have been exposed. it was a lie when it was claimed that this was to allow the un to disarm iraq, when in fact the war was planned from the beginning, whatever happens, as is now obvious. that's a lie, when you dared to say that the security council was blocked because it had not voted a resolution authorizing the war. he was not stuck: he had adopted a procedure and a procedure that worked. weakened iraq, systematically starved for ten years, forced to disarm against promises of peace, was about to collapse in the first hours of the conflict. that 's a lie . he resists, and often heroically. the iraqi people were to welcome the imperial troops as liberators. that 's a lie . she welcomes them as occupiers. iraq was reported to have weapons of mass destruction. everything has been said about this, from the most sinister to the most ridiculous nonsense, such as that of tony blair, who on 5 february disgraced himself by presenting a report justifying the attack, 11 of the 19 pages of which were drawn from a student's memo from ten years ago. today, the only weapons of mass destruction are the thousands of sophisticated bombs and missiles of the anglo-saxon empire that are crushing iraqi cities. as a jurist, i see the cynical violation of all the rules of law that the anglo-americans themselves had put in place to prevent wars. as a european, i deplore the hatred, alas justified, that the bombs of the empire are accumulating against the western world. as a christian, i am horrified that such a war, which meets no conditions of justice, could be waged in the name of god. i call a cat a cat and tony blair a worldly murderer. as for george bush, he should stop invoking god or even praying to god that the blood of innocent iraqis does not fall on the american people!
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the iraqi problem seems to have divided the world into two opposing camps. but peace protesters have risen up all over europe and have risen up all over the world against the strongest military power in the world. without the approval of the un security council, the united states attacked iraq, but we now know that their battle plans were long in the making. we thought a peaceful solution was possible with the intervention of the inspectors in iraq, but the decision was already made. all wars in the middle east have always ended in disaster. so why is there this failure to learn from history? our european construction is based on law, not force. yes, but there is no denying that the european union is in a real crisis. what right are we talking about ? how can we fail to recall article 11 of the maastricht treaty, which obliges all member states to define and implement a common security policy in accordance with the united nations charter? the un charter is being flouted. article 2 calls on all states to refrain from threatening the territorial or political integrity of another state, or from using force against that integrity. what about respecting that article? does this mean that there are no laws, no treaties, no charters to stand up to the law of the stronger? but it's cold in the back. that would be a defeat for democracy and we do not accept that. this war is a moral disaster. all our great principles of civilization cannot be trampled on like this. what will be the price to be paid for this failure to learn from the past and for having been too late in building a political europe capable of weighing in against the united states ? it is time for us to act if we want an independent and strong europe. it is time for us to establish a common defence policy, and we must then provide ourselves with the means to do so. let's move, let's make this convention a success and let's make our future together!
- mr president, the war against iraq is an imperialist war. a whole people is being slaughtered so that half a dozen oil and other trusts can redistribute the maps and the markets among themselves. the present war is in the same vein as so many wars waged in the past by the great powers, britain, the united states, but also germany and france, acting sometimes together, sometimes in competition, to bring the middle east to its knees and plunder its wealth. the words freedom, democracy, or denouncing the dictatorship of saddam hussein are just hypocrisy to cover up a war of banditry. while the armies of the two great powers of the world are still bombing baghdad and starving and thirsting the people of basra, their corporations are already sharing the lucrative contracts: vultures fighting over the spoils of a country they are murdering. at the european council, the leaders of the countries participating in the aggression against iraq and the leaders of the countries claiming to be opposed to the war all came together in a single declaration, as if nothing had happened. what better illustration, beyond their differences, of the fact that they are mostly accomplices?
- mr president, while a democratic process is necessary in iraq, war is never the solution. it is unjust, it kills innocent people, and as the arab proverb says: the killer is never the benefactor. despite the mass rejection of the war by public opinion, the council is silent, whereas we should have condemned it. it is simplistic to think that the united states' objective is to control energy resources. we must recognize that bush has achieved a double trick: to make people forget that his country is in a social and economic crisis and that the israeli occupation army is murdering dozens of palestinians every day. israel continues to violate international law with impunity. the americanization of the world, the reshaping of the geopolitical map of the middle east, are these not the real goals? the european union must play a vital role in peacebuilding. it must help to create conditions for respect for the rights of peoples and guarantee the territorial integrity and sovereignty of states. but for that to happen, a common foreign and defence policy is urgently needed. the future of europe depends on it. do we want a europe of soldiers, in the service of an american empire, or a europe of citizens, independent and respectful of fundamental rights? at the next un security council, the member countries must take a major initiative to impose the force of law against the law of force.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to bow and pay tribute to the civilian and military victims on all sides and i deeply regret all the suffering caused by the first days of the war. let us hope that it comes to an end soon. in general, this conflict inspires me to think about three things. first, how can we learn from our divisions so that the european union can finally come together and speak with one voice on the international stage? the european union has been built over time and through trials. more often than not, major breakthroughs have followed major crises. the test europe is currently facing is not the first and will certainly not be the last, and it is appropriate, in these circumstances, to be optimistic. the most important thing is to examine and understand, after the war, the reasons for this division. do they carry on the bottom ? are the positions irreversible and irreconcilable, which would create serious difficulties in the future? or is it a lack of consultation and coordination? it seems to me that it is now urgent for europe to be able to be independent, to be powerful and to have a real common foreign and defence policy without undermining the transatlantic partnership. independence does not mean breaking alliances. my second thought is the future of iraq. it is important this time that the un play its full role in the reconstruction of iraq, so that the country has a representative government that wants to live in peace with its neighbours and is able to play an active role in the international community. the first thing that needs to be done is to rebuild the iraqi people who have suffered so much for so many years. the iraqi people must finally be able to benefit from the immense wealth of their country. thirdly, i wonder whether we will be able to welcome the applicant countries properly as from next year. are we ready ? i'm really asking the question. in order to welcome the candidate countries under the best possible conditions, three conditions seem necessary. one, that we reconcile our values, why not those of old europe? secondly, that our institutions, which are already working very poorly with only 15 members, be amended, which means that the convention can complete its work under the best possible conditions. three, that we can afford to do. i'm the one who's asking the question. it's not for me to answer. my dearest wish is that after this war and after having gone through this crisis, the union of 15 or 25 independent states will finally be able to speak with one voice.
- mr president, i must admit that i was astonished by the polemic launched by the european parliament against annex xv to the accession treaty, which is accused of violating the interinstitutional agreement of 6 may 1999 and at the same time the rights of our parliament, by setting the ceilings for additional expenditure linked to the arrival of new members for the period 2004-2006. it is true that the normal budgetary procedure with 15 members, in which parliament has a right of codecision, was not followed. but was it worth playing, since we are talking about a future europe of 25 members? and finally, will the decision not be taken in a much more solemn and legitimate way by the treaty itself? if the powers of parliament were to be reduced to a committee of ministers, to an obscure committee, i would understand his protest. but now it's up to the people to decide. can the european parliament object when the people themselves decide on a question? once again, this is a reflection of the narrow-mindedness of our assembly and its perpetual struggle to increase its privileges, which makes it lose sight of both the unquestionable superior legitimacy of the peoples and the general interest in the smooth progress of the enlargement process.
- mr president, commissioner, on behalf of the socialist group, i would like to express my satisfaction with the work done by our committees, and in particular by the rapporteurs, mr harbour and mr medina ortega. as a result of this work, the draft statute drawn up by you, commissioner kinnock, now constitutes - with the amendments which i hope you will accept, commissioner - a balanced package which should provide the staff of our institutions with a statute combining both tradition and modernity. tradition, because we are very committed to preserving the main principles of a public service independent of lobbies or other influences, a competent public service, recruited through objective and rigorous competitions, and a public service with perfectly clear rights and duties. but we also support modernity. after more than thirty years of good and loyal service, the status of the european civil service was in need of serious reform. however, each new development must be appreciated in the light of the objectives pursued. for example, the use of a new category of contract staff, useful as it is, must not lead to an abuse of this formula, since this would risk weakening the conditions for recruitment and undermining the functioning of our institutions. the council must not, however, break this fragile balance, even if we can welcome the balance we have achieved. my fears are due to the council's reactions to two important issues, which are outside the statute but which the council wants to add to it to make it a comprehensive package. these two issues are, on the one hand, the mechanism for the multiannual adjustment of earnings and, on the other hand and above all, the pension scheme. on this last point, commissioner, we are concerned because we see the council linking the adoption of the statute to the adoption of a new pension scheme, whereas you yourself have not yet said anything specific about pensions and we are aware of the explosive nature of the matter. that is why several groups, including ours, have tabled an oral question on pensions, so that you can give us the information we need before we give the final go-ahead to the reform of the statute.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i will follow the example of the previous speakers and thank all those who have spoken on this subject, which has brought us together so often. i agree with commissioner kinnock that we have become accustomed to working together and that very specific links have been established. but i am speaking here as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets and, as such, i welcome the assurances given by the commission as to the cost of the reform of the statute of the european civil service. if the working hypotheses are confirmed, the overall reform will have a limited cost to the union budget and should, in any event, be able to be financed under the current financial perspective. this is an absolute imperative and i would therefore like to give commissioner kinnock a compliment on this point. but this first observation leads me to make a few additional remarks. firstly, since the package of reforms negotiated with the trade unions respects the principle of rigor, it seems to me that there is no need for the council to demand that the acquired rights of civil servants in the field of pensions be brutally called into question. there is no urgency to make savings in this respect. and if the council really wants to find sources of savings, it should simply and quickly approve our proposals for a statute for our parliamentary assistants. secondly, we believe that pensions should not be a taboo subject. improvements are possible and it seems to me, for example, that the correction coefficient system is no longer necessary. i would also have liked to see mechanisms put in place to ensure the long-term viability of the current pension system, precisely because the interests of civil servants must be safeguarded. but this cannot be done without action over time, in a gradual manner, and above all in a spirit of consultation and dialogue. thirdly, and more generally, we must not lose sight of the objectives of this reform, which led us to encourage reform in general and the revision of the statute in particular. the aim is and must always be to increase the efficiency and performance of the european institutions in the service of the union. it is against these objectives that we will assess the merits of each measure and judge the success of the reform.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, of course i join my colleagues in thanking our two rapporteurs, but i would also like to pay tribute to the european civil servants. so think about it: 25,000 people to manage this unlikely continent that is inventing a new future every day. it's a hell of a job that's being done, for now, perfectly. so thank you to the officials who are supporting us. this report, commissioner, contains some interesting and balanced elements, especially after the amendments proposed by our parliament. they are suitable for boosting the european civil service. i will not repeat what some of my colleagues have said better than i have. i shall concentrate on amendments nos 58 and 59, which would allow us to treat parliamentary assistants as contract staff of the communities. these amendments are very positive. they are being brought forward - and i turn to the council bench to take note of the information - by the five main groups in this house. so before the council sends them off with a slightly dismissive backhand, i would ask you to look at them very closely. and if the council needs a moment of reflection, that does not relieve it of its responsibilities towards the european parliament in regard to the gillig report, a report on the same subject which has been in abeyance for too long. this report was a means of amending a regulation to allow our assistants to choose their national social security. the council's failure to act would be a sign of non-respect for the agreement it had reached with parliament and would put it in a completely intractable legal situation. as vice-president responsible for this matter, whose patience, i assure you, is rather at an end, if the blockage i have just mentioned were to continue, i would be obliged to denounce publicly, and with a certain severity, the nature and the people responsible for the blockage.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the use of agricultural and non-agricultural pesticides is now coming back through the door of sustainable development. i agree with some of the rapporteur's observations. the contamination of surface water is a concern for human and animal health. the pesticide content of fruit and vegetables and of foodstuffs of animal origin must be controlled. the consumer has the right to be informed. i also agree with the rapporteur's analysis on gmos. there is no indication that widespread use of pesticides will lead to a reduction in pesticides. beyond these points of agreement, i will state a few differences. firstly, as far as taxation is concerned, we cannot accept the elimination of the possibility for member states to apply reduced vat rates. the member states will be de facto deprived of one of their powers under the treaty. in addition, as other speakers have said, the halving of pesticide use within ten years will only be feasible if safe and less harmful substitutes are available, also and above all without generating additional production costs incompatible with an already fragile market. i am also opposed to a general ban on aerial spraying in certain remote and inaccessible areas, such as mountain areas, and in extreme climatic situations where the usual means of protection are ineffective. this form of spraying is often the only option. finally, the point which raises the most questions for our delegation concerns natura 2000. the classified parcels are designed to reduce agricultural activities: that is the philosophy of this programme. we want these economic activities, as well as other leisure activities - gathering, hunting, hiking, fishing, mountaineering - which precede the classification of sites, to continue and to avoid that overprotective measures tend, in the long run, to make them disappear. by rejecting this scenario, parliament would condemn the effective implementation of the protection measures. today, agriculture is the target. what other activities will be banned tomorrow due to disturbance? in conclusion, for the agricultural world which i wish to defend here, let me express my concern about the path chosen by the rapporteur.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the council, we are therefore obliged to give our opinion on mr nisticò's report, an important report since it aims, as has just been said, to prohibit the placing on the market of substances newly classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction, and which constitutes, it should be stressed, the 23rd amendment to the directive. the european union's decision on this issue and the fact that this subject is regularly brought up as our knowledge of the matter evolves are, of course, to be welcomed. the examples cited by mr lisi clearly show the need to ban these dangerous substances. however, during the conciliation procedure, the council did not wish to accept the proposal to extend the scope of the text to products, in order, in its opinion, to avoid legislation which was too complex and which might render it inapplicable. the argument that these substances are present in 30 000 products and that it is difficult to carry out evaluations on such a large number of products is certainly a common sense one. but could we not already ask that this assessment be carried out for new products on the market containing the substances in question? the commission also undertook to present, following the agreement reached between parliament and the council, a legislative proposal to ban the use of products containing cmrs when it is scientifically proven that exposure to the general public by cmrs causes risks. it is desirable that this proposal, which is in the direction we want, should be put into practice as soon as possible. as regards the working method, i would like to point out that while this report deals with the 23rd amendment to the directive banning the placing on the market of cmrs, the committee on the environment is already considering the 25th amendment to the directive. of course, this 25th amendment covers other substances and preparations, but would it not be better to coordinate the adoption of the various texts, particularly when they concern products dangerous to man and the environment? cmrs, chemicals and pesticides must be considered in the same light as safety and the risks they pose to humans and the environment. there is also a question which must be taken more seriously now: that of risk and the burden of proof. the undertaking which places a product on the market must assure consumers that the product is not harmful. it is not for consumers to demonstrate that the product is dangerous. it is not after it has been placed on the market and because the product has shown its harmfulness that it should be banned, but before it is marketed.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. more than 40 million people are now infected with the aids virus, 36 million of them in developing countries, 28 million of them in sub-saharan africa alone. malaria, a disease that reappeared in the 1970s, kills about a million people a year. finally, there are 8 million cases of tuberculosis and 2 million deaths each year, including 1.9 million in the global south. these three terrible diseases - and they are far from the only ones that decimate the populations of poor countries - are hindering the development of the countries they affect and keeping them in poverty, which in turn prevents the establishment of a health system worthy of the name. it's a deadly cycle of hell that humanity must break if it is to survive. it is with this terrible statistic in mind and heart that the european commission and commissioner busquin, the european parliament and the council decided and designed a programme of eur 600 million under the sixth edf, for which i was the general rapporteur. the commissioner has mentioned that this is the first time that a new instrument under article 169 has been implemented, with the financial participation of several member states, norway, the commission and, hopefully, the private sector. i am proud and happy to have been appointed rapporteur and i warmly thank the colleagues in my new group who have given me this new task, as well as all the other colleagues who have subsequently helped me, not to mention the members of our committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy for their collaboration, and my assistant. we have worked collectively and diligently from the outset, since the european parliament, which was seized on 28 august by the european commission, then held three discussions in the itre committee very quickly, on 7 october, 11 november and 2 december 2002, before voting on this report and its amendments on 23 january 2003 - that is to say within six months - taking into account the opinions of the committee on development and cooperation, in the person of mrs sandbæk, in the enhanced hughes procedure, the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, in the person of mrs evans, and the committee on budgets, in the person of mr hudghton. after these votes, and as early as 11 february in strasbourg, we had a trilogue with the commission and the greek presidency. so i worked quickly, focusing on the north-south partnership, focusing our action on clinical trials and on the reception structures to be strengthened in the countries of the south, especially in the countries of sub-saharan africa. the extension of the scope and the risk of dilution had to be avoided. we must listen to those who are the first victims of these scourges and to those who are helping them to cope. new products adapted to the needs of the people of these countries must be developed, involving them in the definition of priorities. finally, and i was going to say most of all, we have to act fast. at the trilogue on 11 february 2003, we asked the council to add co-existing infections in a recital. we have asked for clarification on how these new products can be easily accessed by the public. we have asked for the involvement of ngos and the who, and finally some colleagues have asked for a stronger appeal to the private sector. i then immediately greeted and thanked the greek presidency, the council and the commission, and my colleagues were satisfied with the extent to which our requests had been taken into account by the council. we have therefore drawn up compromise amendments on which, of course, everyone has made concessions in order to reach a general agreement at first reading. i therefore urge you to support them today, although i understand that some dissatisfaction still exists. i have some myself. but we have to decide fast to act fast. every day thousands of women, men, and children die from these diseases. yes, we must act quickly and do everything we can to make this programme a success, so that it can serve as an example and pave the way for other programmes of this kind for other poverty-related diseases, less known, or even less reported, but equally terrible and destructive of lives and, therefore, of societies.
- mr president, i should like to begin by welcoming the work of our colleague, mr gérard caudron, on this report on the first application of article 169 of the treaty to the sixth edf. his work has helped us to work together very well and to make this wonderful proposal a success. this is due to the courageous initiative of commissioner busquin and consists of allocating a total of €600 million to major research, with the aim of fighting hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis, under the edctp programme. the importance of the objective and the means employed require us to stress the need to respect ethical rules in the context of this research; to stress also the need to be able to use the results in the general interest, to collaborate with developing countries and to promote the scientific and technical emergence of these countries. ethical principles are those set out in article 6 of the treaty on european union and in the charter of fundamental rights, and those defined in the declaration of helsinki of the world medical association on ethical principles for medical research in human subjects. the european and developing countries' clinical trial partnership programme shall apply good clinical practice as defined in directive 2001/20/eec for the conduct of clinical trials on medicinal products for human use in the european union. the edctp programme should promote specialist training and capacity building in developing countries, step up technology transfer to these countries and mobilise additional funds to combat these diseases. the community will ensure that policy decisions and the implementation of programmes are geared to the objective of bringing to market effective products which are accessible at the lowest possible price and easy to use and adapted to the specific conditions of developing countries. they must therefore involve, in an active process, the actors of the developing countries, scientific experts from the north and the south, representatives of patient groups, ngos and the who. finally, our green/efa group wants the results obtained under this programme to be considered as public property and therefore not subject to the intellectual property rules as defined in the trips agreements, in order to ensure access to the treatments resulting from this research at the lowest possible price for developing countries.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fraud and economic and financial crime, as has been said, cause considerable damage to the financial interests of the european community, estimated at over one billion euros a year. enlargement will certainly not improve this situation, since it will increase the fragmentation of the judicial area, increase the number of administrations involved in the management of community funds and thus increase the risk of fraud. this fraud and this crime have, as we know, been a long-standing concern of the european parliament and article 280 of the treaty of amsterdam has already given the community the power to take effective and equivalent measures in all the member states. i therefore fully support the commission's green paper on the creation of a european public prosecutor for the defence of the community's financial interests and the report by mrs theato. i support the inclusion of a new article 280a in the future constitutional treaty, an idea which, moreover, was rejected by the last intergovernmental conference, despite the support of our assembly, in 2000. the institution of a european prosecutor is indeed necessary, but its democratic legitimacy should be ensured by appointment with the assent of the european parliament; it is also necessary to emphasise the need to provide the prosecutor and the delegated prosecutors with a status ensuring their complete independence from the parties to the proceedings, the member states, the community institutions and bodies. it is also essential to ensure that the court of justice acts in a uniform manner throughout the european judicial area by affirming the principle of equal prosecution and by strictly regulating cases of conditional dismissal. in this connection, support should be given to the principle of the creation of a community court, attached to the court of justice, to deal with criminal cases. finally, there will of course be a need for better coordination, the best possible coordination, between the european prosecutor and the structures of olaf, eurojust and europol. as mrs theato has just said, we have appealed to the convention, and we hope that it will take up the matter.
mr president, on the fight against fraud, i would first like to say that there is a problem which needs to be dealt with urgently. there is no judicial institution today with the power to conduct investigations within the community administrations, because of the privileges of the latter. if there is a justifiable mission for a european prosecutor, it is this one. as for the rest, that is to say the possible creation of a supranational body responsible for conducting investigations and bringing legal proceedings against member states in the case of offences affecting the financial interests of the communities, the proposed operation seems to me to have more disadvantages than advantages. of course, differences in national judicial spaces can in some cases impede prosecution. but eurojust is designed to remedy this problem in accordance with national competences. let him act first and develop. we'll judge after that. as for the supranational european prosecutor proposed by the commission, it would lead us into an endless maze, since not only would it be necessary to harmonize charges, sanctions, time limits, all kinds of procedural acts, including the admissibility of evidence, but it would also be necessary to look at the question of the protection of individual freedoms for all the coercive acts that the european prosecutor would require: search, seizure, listening, arrest warrant, judicial control, provisional detention, not to mention, of course, the huge question of democratic control that would have to be created. it is enormous, mr president, and i urge my colleagues to follow the eurojust approach instead, which can achieve the same results without destabilising anything.
mr president, i do not understand why we are voting without any explanation, because there was a trilogue this morning, attended by mr brok and mr wynn on behalf of the committees. i think that parliament should be informed of the outcome of this trilogue before it takes a decision. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. - we voted against the brok report because the european parliament's selfish fight to prevent the alleged amputation of its budgetary prerogatives leads it to an absurd position: to refuse that the people themselves, by approving the treaty, should take a budgetary decision in the place of their representatives! this result shows how much this assembly is guided by short-sighted judgments, inspired above all by the fixed idea of removing powers from the nations. how can we expect the people to be interested in such debates? the case should also give us an opportunity to question the validity of the multiannual financial perspective, which was set up by an interinstitutional agreement in 1988. they are very ambiguous: they are decided at european level and then serve to make national parliaments believe that they no longer have real decisionmaking power when it comes to fixing their annual contribution to the union; in addition, they are likely to be harmful to the european budget itself, limiting the possibilities for annual adjustments if necessary. for all these reasons, if they are victims of the current crisis between the european parliament and the council, we do not regret them.
in writing. - aids, malaria and even tuberculosis are back, a sign of the misery of nations that global free trade and savage ultra-liberalism have sown. indeed, these three pandemics have just reminded us that the planet is a columbia shuttle. when atypical pneumonia broke out in vietnam in 2003, people died in hong kong or france. what do you mean, "i'm not"? that health is a global public good. the problem has been raised at the wto for months. washington is adamant that poor countries should not have free access to generic drugs. the united states is vetoing intellectual property rights, patents on molecules that save lives. but in 2001, when they were threatened by anthrax, it seemed that the patent of the bayer laboratory on cyclosporine should be discarded. this means that the europe-dpc partnership is obviously a welcome initiative, but it is not enough. the world suffers from a deficit of social imagination. we need to get to the realization that the big problems, from pandemics to water scarcity to immigration, are in high planetary orbits, while the solution centers are in low state orbits. the challenge is to raise the level of the orbits where solutions to problems are examined, or else the problems end up crashing to the ground on the blind men in them.
in writing. - the brussels council removed from its agenda the hearing of valéry giscard d'estaing, president of the convention, on the grounds that it was more urgent to deal with iraq. but in fact the council has hardly spoken about iraq either, so as not to aggravate the divisions. finally, one may wonder whether the postponement of the hearing of the president of the convention does not reflect a profound malaise, for two reasons. the first is obviously the iraqi crisis, which shows the impossibility of a unified foreign policy and will probably lead to the formation of at least 'two europe's', superimposed or juxtaposed. this scenario has not yet been included in the convention's plans, which are still largely guided by the unitary model. the second reason is related to the presence or absence of the candidate countries at council meetings. they are not yet members. but can we deliberate the convention without them ? and if so, should it not be made clear that they will be full signatories to the future so-called 'constitutional' treaty, i.e. that this treaty can only be concluded after 1 may 2004, when they will have become members? that's our position.
in writing. - we have to decide on the outcome of the european council focused on the lisbon strategy. we see that once again the heads of state and government are adopting the liberal ideology of european integration. at the lisbon summit in march 2000, the aim was to establish the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth accompanied by a quantitative and qualitative improvement in employment and greater social cohesion. three years later, the results are far from conclusive, and that's saying something. at a time when the number of redundancies is increasing in europe, when growth in the euro area is slowing down - 1% instead of the announced 1.8% - and when the trap of the stability and growth pact is closing, the fifteen are continuing to liberalize railways, energy and air transport, deregulate social protection and make the labour market more flexible. for these reasons, we refuse to accept the council's conclusions. today, we urgently need to reverse these trends towards more democracy and citizen control, more public services, more social protection based on solidarity and more equality between men and women, between nationals and immigrants.
- mr president, on this eighth day of the intervention in iraq, i would like to express my sorrow at the suffering of the civilian population affected by this conflict. but at the same time i think it is necessary to recall that the regime of saddam hussein has led directly to this result by the massacres it has committed, including weapons of mass destruction, and by its incessant delaying manoeuvres in the face of demands for disarmament and behavioural change. and today he is making matters worse by his strategy of drawing the battle into the cities to take the population hostage and use them as human shields. as i have said before, we can regret the way in which the un debates have been conducted in recent months. but today we must express our solidarity with our allies whose troops are on the ground and, i say this especially here, with our british colleagues. like the brussels council of 20 march last, we hope that a free and sovereign iraq will emerge from this, a regime which will pose no threat to its neighbours or to its own people.
mr president, i do not have mr fatuzzo's talent for expressing the feelings one may have for the soldiers of democracies who, in the desert, are fighting a multifaceted enemy, but i would also like to express my sadness that our parliament has not been able to take a formal stand. nevertheless, as mr procacci has just said, important votes are being won. i think the liberal group's resolution was the closest thing to what could have been a parliament position, in particular refusing any hysterical expression as we see too often at the moment. i would add that the failure of europe, if there is any failure of europe - and this empty room is one of the symptoms - is certainly, as regards the course of the negotiations which preceded the outbreak of hostilities, the flagrant failure of the intergovernmental conference. the way in which our governments have favoured national positions and the image, real or illusory, of a national interest over the european interest shows us that if crises can be fruitful, it is because we need a revival, indeed, of a european foreign and security policy and that we will have to look for it in a new federalism to be invented for the century that is opening up.
- mr president, with their incredible joint resolution, which is wordy, confusing, ambiguous, hypocritical, the socialists, the greens and the liberals have gone completely to bed. they have succeeded in the present circumstances in drafting a resolution which does not contain a single recital condemning the anglo-american military aggression and not a single article calling for its cessation. their righteous indignation is directed only against the iraqi authorities, who are asked not to use their weapons, while at the same time being promised that they will be brought before an international tribunal, which is nothing but a farce. but since when, under international law, is crushing a people under bombs a legitimate way to change a government, would it be authoritarian, like all others in the region? and could all the mechanisms of law and collective security be violated in this way, to the sole benefit of the arbitrary power of the powerful? that's the only question that mattered today. you didn't want to ask. you didn't want a resolution. this will remain the shame of this parliament !
in writing. - we voted against the joint resolution tabled by the greens/efa, pse and eldr groups for the simple reason that, at a time when baghdad is being bombed, there is no condemnation of anglo-american aggression. the resolution, however, reserved the bulk of its criticism for iraq and lamented the tensions with the united states. for example, it considers that the belligerent countries must refrain from using disproportionate force which could cause large numbers of civilian casualties. as if this war, which is designed to ensure the control of iraqi oil by us imperialism, is going to be done in a "clean" way. the number of civilians officially killed in this first week is a reminder that this is not the case. the drama unfolding in the middle east deserves more than hypocrisy or wishful thinking. we are surprised that such a resolution could have been proposed by parties which until now have declared themselves opposed to this unjust, illegal and illegitimate war and which are participating in the protests of the anti-war movement. we, on the other hand, are taking the same attitude in the european parliament as we do in the streets. the tens of millions of people who have demonstrated around the world in recent weeks and who will take to the streets again on saturday 29 march show the way to stop this war.
in writing. - the various draft resolutions on the situation in iraq have been rejected one after the other by the european parliamentarians, who have been unable to agree on any clear position on a question which is fundamental for all our peoples. the european parliament, like the other european institutions, thus appears to be a place of contradiction and impotence par excellence. this should give pause to those in the convention who want to give it more power. mr simitis told us yesterday that the european council in brussels had carefully avoided mentioning the crux of the problem. the direction of today's votes in parliament not only undermines that of its last resolution, but it also underlines the scale and the radicality of the differences between the various peoples of europe on the international situation. we are far from a so-called european people, or a so-called european public opinion, which the european parliament is supposed to reflect. the fact that we are unable to take a position on iraq shows that the european parliament, while it can be a useful forum for discussion and exchange, cannot become a relevant place for policy-making. foreign policy is clearly the prerogative of the peoples and the national states who embody their will.
in writing. - i voted for this report. it is essential to remember that this is a public health issue first and foremost. an increasing number of diseases are no doubt linked to the overuse of pesticides. the pressure must be put on the various actors concerned to reduce significantly the use of these pesticides and to rationalize it. wherever possible, the use of alternative crop protection solutions should be encouraged. we know the responsibility of the agricultural professions, whose ambition is to achieve the optimum quality of their products in a preserved living environment. the environmental issues are major in this case: the quality of water and soil is seriously affected by the overuse of pesticides with often dramatic, and sometimes still unknown, repercussions on human health. it is essential to continue research in this area. that is why it seems to me premature to rule out the use of gmos as a means of controlling pests at the present stage of research. strict and independent controls, which are a corollary to the successful application of these new methods, will make it possible to develop a reasoned organic agriculture!
in writing. - we voted against the theato report because the institution of a european public prosecutor would serve above all to increase the powers of brussels. this objective is perhaps the reason for the commission's incredible determination to push this proposal forward. it had already presented it to the intergovernmental conference responsible for drawing up the treaty of nice, and the latter had rejected the offer. the governments had then chosen the much wiser path of eurojust, that is to say, the path of better cooperation between national judicial systems, without any supranational character. today the commission is again responsible for a consultation green paper, and the european parliament is obviously following suit. unfortunately for them, the relevant working party of the convention, too divided, did not adopt this proposal. you're gonna have to hold on to that. the praesidium adopted it proprio motu and inserted it of its own motion in its draft european constitution. behind this relentlessness, there is once again a simple struggle for power. in the federalist view, the european public prosecutor would have the main merit of introducing a corner in the national judicial systems and of bringing about chain reforms until full integration. we must instead promote the idea of a network of national systems cooperating with each other.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no need to draw a picture of the humanitarian situation in iraq. that is why our group continues to believe that a statement by the commission and the council on the prospects for humanitarian aid in iraq and on the first decisions taken by these two institutions in this regard is desirable. we therefore ask that this item be added to the agenda.
- mr president, the humanitarian situation was dramatic before the war in iraq, with the embargo. it's catastrophic today. but everyone knew that a long time ago. this is not new. when our delegation of 31 meps went to baghdad two months ago, we met with the un agencies, who informed us. their representatives told us that if there was a war, the situation would be catastrophic. fortunately, the un did not wait for europe to take up the humanitarian situation. i therefore think that europe, which has not been able to condemn this war and call for its cessation, should not try to redeem its good conscience by dealing with humanitarian matters in this chamber, in a debate. of course we have to take responsibility, but there is no point in making a statement on this subject too late. so i'm against it.
- mr president, in october 2001, at the height of the mad cow and foot-and-mouth disease crisis, the commission failed to manage the beef market. this has resulted in a collapse in prices paid to producers and a rise in consumer prices. in view of this situation, the french trade union organizations took their responsibilities and, at the express request of the jospin government, entered into negotiations to avoid the collapse of a whole quality sector by obtaining a minimum price. we believe that this is a responsible attitude. the commission does not hear this and has heavily sanctioned what it calls a meat price agreement. the fact that these unions have spoken out against the reform of the common agricultural policy does not mean that the commission should abolish them. that is why, mr president, i ask you to intervene with the commission to have this aberrant decision, a real attack on trade union freedom, annulled. i would also ask you to invite the commission to come and explain itself to parliament, in accordance with rule 38 of our rules of procedure. the european union can only function if it remains humanistic and supportive.
- mr president, last week at the cemetery in étaples, graves of british and irish soldiers were desecrated in the context of the outbreak of the war in iraq. i would like, mr president, to join in expressing the sense of horror and dismay that this desecration has already aroused, as it comes at a time when british soldiers are engaged in a war which, whatever the controversy over its outbreak, pits democracies against totalitarian fascism. i am not speaking as a french anglophile but as a european activist who, on the centenary of the cordial agreement, would like you, mr president, to join our institution in commemorating an event which marks the beginning of a century of community of glory and blood and which, as such, is a founding event of the european union. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, you call for calm in the debate, but bombs do not create a feeling of calm. i condemn the desecration of cemeteries in england, i find it regrettable. but in the face of war today, my sense of horror does not come from that, it comes from the thousands of iraqi deaths, the intensive bombing that terrorizes baghdad or basra and kills men, women, children and the elderly; it's caused by lack of water, which can lead to epidemics. i note that some in this house are selectively indignant. i condemn this war, the oil and other trusts linked to the british and american governments, which are terrorizing an entire people and already sharing the profits of reconstruction.
the rapporteur. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the difficult times we are living in today, the commission's desire, reaffirmed on several occasions and over the past few years, to make the europe of knowledge a strategic priority for the union seems to me more timely than ever. the erasmus world programme, which we are discussing tonight, is perfectly suited to this objective. so this is very good news for europe. the main objectives of this programme are twofold and closely linked: to make higher education in the european union more attractive to students and teachers from the rest of the world and to strengthen links between european universities in order to improve the quality and competitiveness of european higher education. indeed, it is by developing, on the one hand, their links with each other and, on the other hand, their links with the rest of the world that our universities will improve the quality of their offerings. as mrs reding said, erasmus world is the instrument europe needs, both internally and externally, to emerge victorious from the globalisation of education. by opening up our universities to the world, we are also opening them up to europe. a word here about the name of the program. we propose that this programme be renamed erasmus mundus. in this way the principle of cultural diversity, which we all deeply cherish and which is a great strength of our union, will be respected and preserved. this programme covers the period 2004 to 2008. it proposes four actions, all of which are very concrete. first, the creation of masters, which we will call erasmus mundus masters, numbering 250. these masters will be selected for a period of five years and will involve at least three higher education institutions from three different member states. they will lead to the award of officially recognised diplomas. these master's degrees will be open to students and teachers from third countries and i hope they will be open to students and teachers from the european union so that they too can benefit from this tour of europe. the labelling of masters will obviously depend on the quality of the courses provided, but it will also have to take into account the quality of the reception reserved for students. the selection procedure will have to be carried out by a high-level jury, composed of eminent figures from the academic world. at the end of their course, students will have to have learned or used at least two languages. language learning must remain a priority for the european union. as mr prodi pointed out, language learning is one of the main ways of promoting genuine understanding between peoples. the promotion of language learning must continue to be encouraged by all means and this programme offers us a perfect opportunity to do so. second action: the establishment of a system of grants. large grants will be offered to 4 200 students from third countries, either directly or through partnerships between their home university and universities participating in a master's programme. in addition, grants will be offered to 1 000 professors from third countries invited to europe for teaching or research missions of an average duration of three months. third action: the creation of partnerships to strengthen and promote intercultural understanding. higher education institutions will be encouraged to establish cooperation with universities in third countries. the last action is the international promotion of european higher education. a website will be set up specifically for the programme, providing up-to-date information on erasmus mundus masters. to achieve all these objectives, we felt it was appropriate to give ourselves the means to achieve our ambitions; the commission has already proposed that the budget be increased to eur 300 million, taking care not to undermine existing programmes and taking into account the appropriate conditions and means to be determined by the budgetary authority. on all these points, the cooperation with our colleagues from the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport and with the rapporteur for opinions has been extremely fruitful. let them be thankful! and here i want to conclude by expressing a wish: that tomorrow young students, academics and researchers from the european union and the rest of the world will find in our continent material to learn from, to train and to understand each other better. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, perhaps the term 'knowledge society' is worth considering. i am doing research in my country and i cannot hear the phrase "knowledge society" without being startled. i think it is important to emphasize two things in this connection. first, what is the language of knowledge? if europe can bring something to the world, well, it is precisely its linguistic diversity. it has been said and repeated, and i want to say it again: i think it is fundamental that linguistic diversity should go hand in hand with cultural diversity. if we have a european project, if we also want to show what europe can give to the world and receive from the world, it is through the use of languages which is so well represented in our parliament; we don't want him to go to college like this. thank you, maria de sarnez, for making this point. now, the language of knowledge is one thing, but knowledge itself is another. you said, commissioner, that you would accept some amendments and not others. you want to be reminded that equal opportunities are needed but you don't want it to be overemphasized. you want - and those were my amendments - that there should be a general objective of a fair distribution between the so-called 'hard' and 'literary' sciences, but you do not want that to be a selection criterion, if i have heard your comments earlier. i would like to see us stick to the principles and the petitions of principle. but to belong to the world of research and higher education, we know that there are times when we need constraints, when we need to put forward objectives and not just a few words. as far as the humanities are concerned, remember the sixth framework programme in the field of research. until the fifth framework programme, the humanities were a means and not an objective of research, they could help other sciences, but they were not considered as such as sciences in their own right in the funding of research. since the sixth framework programme, the humanities have had a well-recognised place in the field of research, and i am particularly pleased about that. i would like to see the points relating to equal opportunities, such as a good balance between all the sciences and all the disciplines, not remain mere words, but be able to be promoted in practice with regard to the movement of students and young researchers or future researchers.
- mr president, the loud and hearty applause which greeted the presentation of mrs de sarnez's report says enough about its value and excellence. we have talked about european added value in relation to erasmus mundus. there is also parliamentary added value in the amendments which our parliament will make to this european response to the challenge of global competition between universities; the challenge is to respond to the brain drain by attracting brains, without imitating non-european formulas, but by developing a specific way: linguistic diversity. the europe of knowledge is a polyglot europe, the development of an original system of university excursions, a vision of the organization of the academic community in the form of a network: these are the innovative elements. what do we ask for? a small budget increase, a little budgetary oxygen for erasmus mundus, a small financial step, mr president, for a great leap forward towards excellence.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to make one point. the last sentence of amendment no 53 is not obsolete. it can therefore be put to the vote as an addition to amendment no 69, which we have just voted on. i read this sentence: "particularly through courses organized by the participating universities".
in writing. - we are happy to join the protest against the harassment of yannick bigah in togo. we are shocked, however, that the protest is limited to this one case and is asking for guarantees only for the human rights associations, whereas eyadéma, the dictator of togo, is causing many other victims with a very different gravity. the fact that the european parliament is asking for a kind of safe passage to protect certain associations against dictatorship is better than nothing. but it would be better if he protested against the dictatorship itself. it is not a question of the european parliament being sensitive to the fact that eyadéma is one of the oldest proteges of french imperialism in africa. rather than risk denouncing the dictator, denouncing his protector, we reduce the problem to an individual humanitarian case.
in writing. - the main purpose of the text we have just voted is to ensure the health safety of artificial insemination of cattle; but there is another aspect of this activity which has not been sufficiently taken into account until now, and that is the biodiversity or genetic diversity of bovine breeds. the cattle insemination industry, left to the liberal rules of the market, seeks performance at the lowest cost, which leads to pressure to reduce the number of breeders; this has led to increased risk of inbreeding, the threat of extinction for rare species, and the depletion of biodiversity. there is a public service dimension in the genetic selection of animal breeds which is poorly taken into account by a purely commercial organisation of the profession; the maintenance of biodiversity within domestic breeds is one aspect of the multifunctional nature of agriculture which the member states must be keen to support. i therefore ask the member states, while encouraging freedom of enterprise in this profession and while applying the rules necessary for the absolute safety of artificial insemination, to promote the conservation of the most diverse genetic heritage possible in bovine herds.
in writing. - the black sea wheat case is emblematic of the commission's systematic refusal to apply the principle of community preference, of which it is, under the treaties, the guardian. however, such blatant examples of this lax attitude are rarely available outside the wto negotiating cycles. by delaying in reacting, by refusing to use all the regulatory instruments at its disposal, the commission has deliberately allowed very large quantities of russian and ukrainian wheat (nearly 10 million tonnes) to enter the territory of the european union, which we had no need for, since we had intervention stocks that could be fully mobilised. this 'let-do-let-go' policy of the commission during the 2001-02 marketing year has been perpetuated in the form, for the time being, of tariff quotas for categories of cereals in which we are surplus producers. the institutionalisation of this breach calls into question the place hitherto accorded to europe in the cereals trade. it will be up to us to ensure that the breach does not widen and that there is no massive fraud in the enlargement process. i am glad that my report was adopted almost unanimously by this house.
in writing. - this agreement, like so many others of its kind, is an illustration of the way in which the european union is cloaking its policy of plundering the resources of third world countries in hypocritical considerations. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations with the united states. the european union is not only helping the shipowners - and, behind them, the big food companies that sell tuna - to obtain fishing rights, it is also finding ways to subsidize two thirds of the meagre fees these companies have to pay to the republic of kiribati. what this report reveals of the conditions of what is to be called outright plunder can only be disgusting. and if we abstain, instead of voting against this report, it is only because we do not want to risk hindering the few clauses in it which could provide some resources to the people of kiribati.
in writing. - the commission's 2000 and 2001 reports on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are distressing. this is a reductive conception of subsidiarity, which should never call into question the community acquis, which should not be in conflict with the commission's plans and which should not be decided by national parliaments. the reduction in the number of community texts reported by the commission since 1990 is merely the mechanical backlash of the end of the single act. but subsidiarity is still being violated today. at present, the court of justice, that is to say a community institution not controlled by the people, is the ultimate judge of subsidiarity, in the usual consistency with the commission. the current convention on the future of europe would like to strengthen this role even further. we disagree. as i said in my contribution on subsidiarity, which i presented to the european parliament's committee on institutional affairs in 1995, the real criterion of subsidiarity is simply the decision which national parliaments must freely take. the people who signed the treaty. they are the ones who should be the judges of its limits.
in writing. - we voted for this text and most of the amendments, since they can promote an improvement in higher education in europe and its greater openness to other cultures and other languages for students from both the european union and third countries. but of course we rejected amendments which, openly or indirectly, either sought to promote private higher education institutions or to allow employers, under any pretext, to increase their hold on university education.
in writing. - i can only support and defend the general objective of the five-year erasmus world programme (2004-2008), which aims to help the development of quality education in europe through enhanced cooperation with third countries. the aim is to prepare citizens of europe and partner countries to live and work in a society where knowledge is a key issue, to strengthen europe's attractiveness as a centre of excellence in higher education, and to improve mutual understanding between peoples and cultures through exchanges and structural cooperation. the implementation of such an attractive and open-minded europe of education requires, however, adequate budgets: this programme, which offers great prospects, must not be the source of false hopes, because of the lack of sufficient funds. in other words, the budgetary effort must be worthy of the programme which is to be implemented, a programme which has a real scope, a programme which can benefit a substantial number of students and thus achieve the ambitious objectives for a meaningful intercultural dialogue to take place.
in writing. - the erasmus world programme 2004-2008 is a good initiative as it aims to strengthen the position of european universities on the international scene. in an environment where competition is also ruthless in this field, everyone will understand that it is essential to mobilize all the energies to prevent the brain drain to the united states. however, this objective cannot exempt the european institutions from their obligations in the field of education. thus, article 149 of the ec treaty, which emphasises 'the responsibility of the member states for the content of teaching and the organisation of the education system as well as their cultural and linguistic diversity', states that the integrity of the main university principles, starting with the scientific neutrality of teaching and the independence of teachers, must be guaranteed. the departure from certain community teaching programmes, in particular the jean monnet chairs, which is rightly criticised by many french university professors in the jean bodin university observatory, must be avoided; the aim of the project is to develop a methodology for the evaluation of the quality of teaching in the community, which is based on the following principles: erasmus world must not be the new trojan horse of european federalism in the university.
in writing. - we are of course in favour of the widest possible dissemination of information and communication technologies to pupils and teachers. but we did not vote on this report and we abstained because the rapporteur advocates, under the pretext of promoting these technologies, various forms of aid to companies in this sector. the report also makes a number of recommendations to the council and the commission on the future of the european union.
in writing. - while the partial and limited abolition of frontiers between the member states of the european union is progress, the legal and physical barriers which are being strengthened around the union represent a retreat towards barbarism. throughout the eastern part of enlarged europe, these barriers separate peoples who were once bound by a common past from one another and sometimes they strengthen and aggravate the separation within the same people. the consequences of this are particularly appalling in the case of the kaliningrad enclave, which is cut off from the rest of russia. until now, getting from russia to kaliningrad or back was not a particularly administrative problem. from 2004, european authorities will require visas for such a journey. we are therefore asked to approve a worsening of the traffic conditions for the inhabitants of kaliningrad or for those travelling there. this is a deliberate aggravation imposed by the european authorities, even if it is presented to us today as a simple technical adjustment.
- the next item is the report (a5-0085/2003) by mrs buitenweg, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and human rights, on the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the reform of the drug conventions (com (2003) 0515 - c4-0535/2003 - syn 348) (com (2003) 0514 - c4-0535/2003 - syn 343) (c4-0535/2003 - syn 343)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i am completely astonished by what i have just heard from mr pirker, and i will explain it to you. i would like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur, mrs buitenweg, on her report, which, contrary to what has just been said, is balanced. i have seen that this has not been easy, given the particularly lively discussions which this question has generated during its examination by our committee. as mrs buitenweg has said, there is a real need to assess the effectiveness of existing conventions and also the appropriateness of reclassifying drugs. for example, article 3 of the single convention classifies more than 100 substances into four tables, the first of which groups opium, heroin, cocaine, cannabis and methadone under the same heading. is that really consistent? i put the question to mr pirker. it should also be said here that the buitenweg report is not in any way aimed at deciding the question of the decriminalisation of drugs, not even soft drugs, but only and exclusively raises two questions: the question of the effectiveness and relevance of the current system and the question of the need for a reclassification of products. however, reclassification of products does not in any way mean that cannabis is now being offered for sale or authorised. i challenge mr pirker to prove to the house that this is one of the proposals in mrs buitenweg's report. i would also remind you that the same body adopted the malliori report two months ago, which states that drugs should be classified on a scientific basis, according to the health risks they pose. mrs buitenweg, moreover, refers specifically to this document and i fully support her in this. will we continue to refer to conventions whose earliest date is 1961 and the most recent 1988? we feel that the time has come to evaluate these devices. i repeat that this report is balanced, that it mentions the risks of drug addiction extensively and in a very specific way and that it does not in any way encourage the use of narcotic drugs. on this point too, i challenge mr pirker and some of his colleagues from the epp to find paragraphs in which there is any encouragement to drug addiction. in no way is this report trying to minimize the risks and harm of drugs and, in my view, there is no point in breaking the balance which has been difficult but rightly found in mrs buitenweg's report. i therefore hope that we can achieve the widest possible support for this report, so that we can really advance our common desire to repair the damage caused by drug addiction.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0086/2003) by mrs cerdeira morterero, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the amended proposal for a council directive on the right to family reunification (com (2002) 225 - c5-0220/2002 - 1999/0258 (cns)).
- mr president, it is in a climate of security laws and the de facto criminalization of emigration that mrs cerdeirera morterero's report attempts to make positive corrections to the commission's original proposal. this is the case, for example, with the abolition of discrimination in matters of family reunification. but some of my colleagues are asking whether this is a fool's bargain, since the council already reached an agreement in february, which commissioner vitorino welcomed. so let me also express my doubts about the willingness to take account of the opinion of the european parliament. let me also express my deepest concern at the current trend in many eu countries towards tightening up their migration policies. it is clear, for example, why the french government has described this agreement as an important part of the policy of controlling migration flows. if there is to be approximation of national laws, is it on the basis of respect for the rights and protection of third country nationals, in the spirit of the tampere treaties, or will the transposition of this directive on the contrary be used by some as a pretext for a reduction in the level of protection already guaranteed by the member states? by increasing the conditions of access, for example, for children and the selection between applicants for skilled jobs and others, europe is becoming a fortress. this policy does not contribute in any way to the establishment of a european citizenship which gives life to the values of tolerance, democracy and solidarity in compliance with, in particular, the geneva convention and the universal declaration of human rights. on the contrary, immigrants should be able to move freely and receive a welcome that allows them to participate in local life and to enjoy a decent income, which is a real boon for the union. then we'd be far from the invaders' fantasy. the 2002 report of the oecd's permanent migration monitoring system restores the truth. in france, much to the chagrin of the minister of the interior, the total number of permanent arrivals in 2002 was 119 000, a figure lower than in 1998, the main reason for this migration remaining, in 77% of cases, family reunification. finally, like the human rights associations, i would like to condemn the actions which the danish presidency had in some way permitted in its action programme on returns of november 2002. i am talking about sending joint charters with the "undesirables" on board. it has taken mr sarkozy barely four months to get into france with this organization of forced returns, which is unworthy of our time and, above all, far from a humane and just immigration policy.
mr president, the european parliament is voting again today on the council's proposal on family reunification. in this context, it should be recalled that the council already defined a general approach on 27 february. while the right to family life is recognised by international conventions and enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, it is regrettable to note that this approach of the council seriously calls into question this right for residents from third countries. taking into account the tampere summit which aimed to establish a common approach to ensure, in compliance with human rights instruments, the integration of third country nationals legally residing in the union, this new approach is a real downward revision. as some colleagues have said, it is true that this directive is better than nothing when one knows the difficulties encountered in achieving it. but we cannot help deploring its minimalist appearance, despite all the goodwill of our rapporteur, who is here sincerely thanked for his work. let me, however, make a few criticisms. why exclude persons with temporary or subsidiary protection status? excluded from the asylum system by this proposal, they become rightsless. they are also excluded from all directives relating to third country nationals. furthermore, why limit family reunification to only a legitimate spouse and dependent children under certain conditions? there is no justification for making the admission of minors over 12 years of age subject to the condition of integration, nor for excluding minors over 15 years of age. the definition of a child who is a third country national should be the same as that of another european child. a child is a child. regardless of nationality, he has the right to live with his parents. is this provision not contrary to the international commitments of the member states on the rights of the child? such inconsistencies are unjustified and unjustifiable. as regards the duration of the procedure, once the application for family reunification has been lodged, it must be possible for it to take effect within a reasonable period of time. a three-year wait for marriage is way too long. do you ask europeans to be married for three years before they live together ? the principle of the right to family life is simple. the right to family reunification should be automatic when a foreign national legally residing in a member state of the union holds a residence card valid for one year. in addition, this restrictive proposal risks making family life a torment, especially for women. the directive provides that the grant of a residence permit is limited to a period of one year, renewable under certain conditions. the duration of the document issued should be the same as that of the spouse. the five-year time limit for the granting of an autonomous residence permit to the spouse is far too long. the lack of legal autonomy often places women in total dependence on the husband, which is unacceptable in a europe which defends women's rights. furthermore, access to employment for family members is not a right from the moment of arrival, which forces one spouse to bear all the burdens and blocks any process of social integration of the other spouse. this proposal for a directive is based on a philosophy which is contrary to that adopted last year. not only does it contradict the discourse on integration advocated by many officials, but it also encourages young people of immigrant background to react violently to perceived injustice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again i can only point out the important immigration drift which the text before us represents. the logic is always the same: to encourage immigration to europe more and more and to make the right to family reunification the driving force of this community policy. a month ago, the eu's justice and home affairs council reached a difficult consensus on the directive on family reunification. today the rapporteur proposes to amend this compromise, which she considers too restrictive, because it does not sufficiently promote the right to extended family reunification. indeed, what is being proposed here is to extend the notion of family member to unmarried partners, adult children, and ascendants if they have no other support. but who will judge the materiality of the fact that they have no other support? the simple homosexual association, for example, is here equated with the concept of family. however, it is stated that a long-term and stable relationship will be required. what a joke ! but the breach is open. it's for all the candidates. so, with one person entering, there'll be about fifteen others who can sit with her. we are not insensitive to the situation of separation that some immigrant families are experiencing. but if you want to avoid the resulting uprooting, why do you never consider, in these times of unemployment, the possible organization of family reunification in the countries of origin? and why should we not devote a part of our development credits to this, which all too often actually serve only to take money out of the pockets of the poor in rich countries and give it to the rich in poor countries. is that the real mission of family reunification? should it not rather be organised towards the country of origin of these migrants? more than ever, we denounce this settlement immigration, organized by the member states with the active complicity of the european institutions: the right of asylum for all, the abolition of border controls, the regularization of illegal immigrants, the development of white marriages... this has to stop. it is our duty to put an end to this suicidal policy of europe.
mr president, the report contains proposals which, if they were binding, could reduce the difficulties of family reunification somewhat. it is, however, insufficient and some of the amendments proposed are retrograde and we will reject them. the right to family reunification must be an absolute right. the main concern of the report seems to be to frame this right under the most diverse pretexts in order to avoid that it can facilitate so-called illegal immigration. this humanly despicable concern diminishes the significance of the few positive aspects of the text. the society is so unequal, there is so much poverty in the world, that more and more poor people are trying to escape from hunger and suffering in an attempt to find salvation in the countries of europe, which unfortunately, very often, they do not find. the national states and the european institutions can erect all the physical and legal barbed wire to prevent this movement: they will not prevent it. the coercive measures to reject those fleeing poverty only show the inhumanity of those who take these measures and support them.
- mr president, the proposal for a directive on family reunification has been coming back to the european parliament periodically since 1999, like a sea serpent. the reason for this back and forth is simple: at first the commission makes a lax proposal, the european parliament approves it and bids more, then the council - which seems to be the most responsible of the three - says no and the cycle begins again. this time the commission thinks it has found the unstoppable weapon. it takes a low profile on most of the provisions contested by the council as if it were giving in, but it introduces at the end of the text an article 19 which explains that all these points will be reviewed two years or less later. we see the tactic. the aim, at least initially, is to secure acceptance of a minimum european regulation on family reunification in order to secure recognition of the principle of european law and european intervention. in a second stage, the commission will use these points of reference to return to the charge, especially since article 19 already specifically identifies the provisions which will have to be amended. the council is in danger of passing over this text, with everyone saying - as is too often the case - 'for the time being we will save the main part and we will see what happens in two years' time for the rest. we believe that the council should not be drawn into this. family reunification is now a major source of immigration and it is important that each member state retains the capacity for close monitoring to adapt it to its reception capacities. there can be no question of the states being forced to accept an expansion of this right a priori, as the commission and the european parliament are dreaming of. we therefore believe that this directive would be unnecessary and dangerous for the states, especially since the convention on the future of europe expresses the will to pass all these matters to the qualified majority.
mr president, i shall speak very briefly on the basis of rule 122 for personal reasons, since i have been called into question by mr robert evans. it so happens, mr evans, that my wife's family is from the far east and therefore lives well over 10,000 kilometres from here. i love my wife, i love my in-laws very much, i visit them frequently in japan and they come to visit me. but neither they, nor my brothers-in-law, nor my wife's cousins, have ever considered that the fact that she has become my wife gives them a right to remain and reside permanently in the territory of the european union.
commission. - mr president, as has already been pointed out here, in the debate we are going to have on operational cooperation between member states on the repatriation of illegal residents, joint charter flights will be one of the measures to strengthen operational cooperation provided for in the action programme on repatriation, approved by the council in november 2002 on the basis of a commission communication. legally speaking, such joint charter flights now amount to two or more domestic long-haul operations carried out simultaneously on the same aircraft. these joint charter flights have nothing to do with collective expulsions, which are prohibited by the european convention on human rights and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the commission notes that the return of the third-country national concerned to the united kingdom is not subject to the conditions laid down in article 3 of the return directive. each case is assessed on an individual basis, depending on the personal circumstances and legal situation of each person. in other words, each person on board such a flight was subject to an individual procedure which led to an individual rejection of any applications or appeals for legal residence. thus, decisions are based on individual rather than collective motives. the commission has no indication or reason to believe, in the case referred to by mr krivine, that the particular circumstances of each person on that flight were the subject of a violation of any instrument of international law, that is to say, that the persons on that flight did not have their applications individually and effectively examined by the member states which took the expulsion measures.
- thank you for your explanation. i think the problem is very serious because since i asked that question, five joint flights - as you say - have left france. they were transporting groups of people of the same nationality leaving under the same conditions, often handcuffed, sometimes gagged, so much so that two immigrants were even suffocated to death. the government has even decided that these so-called joint flights will now have a red cross doctor on board to assist with the procedure. so my question is , how do you tell the difference between a joint flight and a group flight ? by definition, a group is an aggregate of individuals. when you have forty-two senegalese people together, who is going to determine the criteria to use to know whether they constitute a collective or a sum of individuals? i don't know of any collective that isn't a sum of individuals. but i have the weakness to believe that when you have 42 senegalese or 20 ivorian together - ivorian people who, i point out, are from a country where they risk death - it is about the same. so my question is this: who determines the semantic difference between joint and collective theft ? explain to me what a collective expulsion is, that is, prohibited.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate my colleague, mrs carmen cerdeira, on her excellent work on this very important subject. this is the first directive on legal immigration since the subject has been placed under european competence. but i should like to say right away that i regret two things: firstly, that it has taken so long; secondly, that we have reached such a cold position, which is unfortunately the consequence of a policy based exclusively on the control of migration flows, despite the objectives set in tampere. after more than three years of tough negotiations, after two very different proposals, despite an opinion of the european parliament supporting the first proposal, despite the excellent work done by our rapporteur, we now have a minimal text on family reunification and, moreover, the council will absolutely not take into account the opinion of the european parliament which will, however, i hope, confirm its previous position. tampere had given us a different idea, but it is unfortunately certain that the process started in 1999 is taking a different turn. it is essential that parliament, by voting tomorrow in favour of mrs cerdeira's report, clearly expresses its rejection of the fortress europe that is being prepared, and that it also clearly expresses its support for the right to family life, which is an absolutely essential right in all our democracies. that is why we will vote against - and we are against - the provision which allows member states to refuse entry to a child over the age of 12 in certain cases. we will also reject the provision authorizing a three-year waiting period and we are unfortunately forced to see that this episode is yet another proof of the lack of political will on the part of the states to share the responsibility for immigration. but this is not the way to solve the problem of illegal immigration. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right of asylum is guaranteed. in short, between the various setbacks in the second directive and the various ... (the president invites the speaker to conclude)... we are really far from the objectives of com munitization set in 1999 by the tampere summit.
commission. – mr president, concerning the german initiative, the commission stated in its communication, of 14 october 2002, on a common written policy on illegal residents, that there is a clear need for improvement of operational cooperation among member states. the return action programme of the council adopted on 28 november 2002, which is based on our communication, also calls for a comprehensive community return policy, which should be gradually developed, starting with some practical steps for operational cooperation as the matter in hand. in that framework, reference was also made to the german initiative for a council directive on assistance in cases of transit for the purpose of return by air, which i support, as you do. i congratulate mr kirkhope on his report. indeed, a common framework should be set for questions relating to transit during the return process. the commission has presented a proposal on burden-sharing of costs during the return operations. but often it is necessary to use airports of other member states, due to a lack of direct connections to the country of return. in such cases it is important that we establish a clear legal framework for the transit procedures, especially as far as the use and competences of escorts in transit is concerned. nevertheless a fully-fledged common return policy must additionally strive for medium-term legislative measures which will not only smoothen cooperation among member states, such as the binding mutual recognition of return decisions, but will also set certain common minimum standards on expulsion, detention and removal, to guarantee that all member states – not only the 15 but all 25 – abide by and respect human and fundamental rights standards. consequently the commission envisages presenting a proposal for a council directive on minimum standards for return procedures and mutual recognition of return decisions by the end of this year.
- we shall of course vote against this report which, despite its technical neutrality, is designed to organise the expulsion of so-called illegal immigrants. the fact that the only elected institution of the european union justifies these expulsions and helps to organise them shows that it is no better from a human and social point of view than national institutions, that is to say, not much. hypocrisy is added to the inhumanity, for no one can ignore that industry, construction and industrial agriculture rely heavily on immigration, whether legal, illegal or seasonal. turning so-called illegal immigrants into police prey means, above all, handing them over to their employers: it reduces some workers to semi-slavery, it weighs on everyone's wages and it is part of the war on the poor waged by all the governments of europe. i therefore oppose the expulsions and demand the legalisation of the situation of all undocumented workers by granting them the same civil and political rights as all workers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the proposed initiative is to define the measures which the authorities can take to provide assistance in the case of the removal of third-country nationals, with or without escort. this proposal is part of the many initiatives to combat irregular immigration. if the european union needs to have a common immigration and asylum policy and if it is to have the means to manage migration flows, this policy must be in keeping with the respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms universally recognized and accepted by the member states. we cannot therefore support an approach which aims to make the expulsion of illegally staying third-country nationals a demagogic tool for a repressive policy in the realm of immigration. there have been too many cases of air deportations which have resulted in the death of human beings as a result of the treatment they have received. everyone remembers semira adamou, who was suffocated on a plane in belgium during her expulsion. just last month, two more undocumented immigrants died in france in the same violence. recently, on 3 march, france and germany collectively deported 54 senegalese and ivorian nationals who had not been admitted to the territory, whose asylum applications had been rejected and who were kept in a waiting area. it seems to me that this is a forced and, to say the least, massive relocation. has article 4 of the european convention on human rights and article 19 of the charter of fundamental rights, ratified at the nice summit, been respected? in addition, as regards the ivorians who have been returned to a country currently experiencing a situation of unrest and civil war, have the asylum procedures guaranteed by the geneva convention on the status of refugees also been respected? moreover, there is no guarantee that the principle of non-refoulement, recognised in the right to asylum, will be fully respected. the security approach proposed today is in line with the union's practices, which, it must be admitted, have not solved the problem of illegal immigration. it is urgent to recognize that the myth of zero immigration and its corollary, the all-repressive, is a failure. to date, the repressive immigration policies of the member countries have not reduced illegal immigration. on the contrary, they have reinforced it by producing irregular migrants, they have returned hundreds of thousands of people to the underground, people who are now under the control of networks of exploiters, human trafficking and modern slavery. this failure requires a thorough review of immigration and asylum policy. this is a major, complex, long-term issue for which our democracies have an important responsibility. by refusing to adopt a community policy in favour of the national requirements of the member states, by undermining the rights of migrants and their families, and by abandoning them to the violence of expulsion, by refusing to recognise the wealth that these citizens, legal or otherwise, bring to the construction of europe, this proposal is contrary to our convictions of an open and united europe, and for that reason the green group rejects it. we call on the council to establish a genuine community policy on asylum and immigration which respects human rights and fundamental freedoms. we are calling for a european campaign to regularize the situation of undocumented persons for all those who have ties to the host country and are permanently resident there. we are calling for an end to the unfair position of double, and sometimes even triple sentencing, because of readmission agreements. it is urgent to overcome the current contradiction in the situation of people who cannot be expelled and cannot be registered, by finally recognising their right to live together as a family. after the minimalist proposal for a directive on family reunification which we have just discussed in this house, we are dreaming about the discrimination which the european union intends to reserve in the future for the most excluded and the most vulnerable. against such practices, we assure you of our active vigilance so that all european residents can be full citizens and live with equal rights. these people, regardless of their nationality or administrative status, must be treated with the dignity due to all human beings.
- mr president, my group, by a large majority, will vote in favour of the agreement making it possible to sign the agreement on enlargement to include ten new countries. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. why the split vote ? without the assent of the european parliament, the door to the european union would automatically be closed to the candidate countries, whatever the will of the citizens of those countries. whatever we may think of the conditions under which enlargement is taking place today, we believe that it is up to each of the peoples concerned to make their own free choice. on the other hand, adopting the brok report would be tantamount to giving the council, apart from the budgetary boost, a satisfactory reply to the fifteen on the way the accession negotiations were conducted and concluded. and that is precisely where the stick hurts. in our view, the success of this historic project will sooner or later require a reorientation of key aspects of the current enlargement approach and of european construction in general. i am sure that, like mr brok, we believe that enlargement can contribute - and i quote him - to a growing rapprochement between the states and peoples of europe: to facilitate the settlement of disputes through negotiation within the common institutions, thus promoting peace and security in europe and - i quote him again - to establish the influence of the citizens of europe on the world political scene. that's why we're in favor. but i am very much afraid that these are wishful thinking without any serious challenge to the direction of europe. mr brok, i quote, is therefore pleased with the consensus reached in the negotiations. consensual, really? in official meetings maybe, but in the population? so have you not taken note of the vehement reactions in the applicant countries to the positions of the 15 on agricultural aid, to the significant shortage of funds available by 2006, to the restrictions on the free movement of persons? have you ever been asked whether the liberal acquis imposed on the applicant countries should take better account of their social problems, the employment situation, the fragility of the economy and also certain national specificities? every nation has its own history. in fact, in the name of the requirement, inscribed in the copenhagen criteria, to show themselves - and i quote - capable of facing the competition of the large european market, these countries have been pushed to privatize and to make everything precarious, to liberalize trade, even to create a huge trade deficit. we've made low wages a competitive advantage. we have expanded markets without expanding rights. where would europe end up if we let it drift to 25? and without the trust of its own people, how can it hope to weigh in on world affairs? in fact, experience has shown that throughout europe, in both the member states and the candidate countries, we must open a great public debate, not only with governments, but also with society. what vision of europe do we want to bring to life in the world in the face of the unilateralism of the united states, which is so full of hatred and bellicism? what break in our orientations must we envisage in order to move from a liberal europe to a truly social and solidarity-based europe? what reforms of our institutions must be promoted to involve citizens in the great projects of european transformation? in the triple perspective of 2004, enlargement, a new treaty, european elections, this is a good fight to be fought from strasbourg to warsaw and from helsinki to nicosia! (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard so many times this morning that we have a date with history, but it is obviously a secret one when i see the number of members present. there is more presence in the stands than in the chamber of this parliament. obviously, we have a problem with these historical encounters, but that's another story. it has also been said that it is obvious that the european unification we are experiencing, which we have wanted, is the result of the struggle of the peoples of the eastern countries against totalitarianism, just as post-war europe was the result of the struggle of the european peoples against the fascism that had dominated europe. we are therefore uniting europe around the constitutional and constitutive idea that is ours, that is to say the idea of democracy, the idea of anti-totalitarianism. i do not think there is anyone in this house who would question that and that is why our group will vote unanimously in favour of accession for all the countries on the list today. the countries of eastern europe, the countries that are coming, are fascinating and frightening societies. they are reformist and conformist societies. these are societies which expect a european way of life from europe. these are societies that want a more comfortable future. these are societies that, in part, hope for the democratic stabilization they need. that is why i believe that a massive and unconditional 'yes' to enlargement is important. but the problem is complicated when it comes to discussing our capacity for enlargement - and here i cannot entirely agree with what commissioner verheugen has said. some of my group will not vote for the brok report because they think we are not up to the task of this historic meeting. we have not been able to achieve the deepening of the european union necessary for this enlargement. and we can give many examples of this. it is not just about agricultural subsidies, but about our inability to reform our common agriculture because of national selfishness. it is our inability to create a social europe because of national egos. it is our inability to achieve convergence, not only monetary but also social and political. and that is why on this historic day it is important to come back in a sentence to the surreal situation in which we find ourselves today. after an "institutional rape", we were forced to give our historic consent in a joint declaration which is to say: "in fact, it was not too serious and it did not hurt". this is how we are making the europe of tomorrow. and that is why i say that beyond the adventures of this trilogue, which has lasted for days and days, it is our common future that is at stake. our common future, which, if you will, boils down to one sentence: do we want to be revolutionaries or conservatives? do we want the butter or the butter money? the situation is very simple. if we want to keep the europe of the 15 as it is today, enlargement will bring us into crisis and we will experience terrible crises because it will not work. the unanimous vote of the council of 25 is pure madness. unanimity in making complicated decisions, especially in foreign policy, is pure folly. in your report, mr brok, you say that we must strengthen transatlantic relations. i'll say yes on one condition, that we reform them completely. the enlarged europe is a different europe from the one that emerged from the 1950s. it is an independent, self-sufficient and, i hope, proud europe which must force the americans to change their minds on a fundamental question: we are not allies who follow our will, we are allies when we want to be. and when we feel like saying no, we say no. but this is not in your report. and anyone who goes to the united states today knows that this is a language that americans have a hard time understanding. that is why i say: whoever says yes to enlargement today, whoever says yes to the need for enlargement, must also say yes to a convention capable of profoundly reforming the institution that is europe today.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have averted the worst. for a few days, a few weeks, we were in a psychodrama. parliament was right to ask for these prerogatives to be restored, which had been somewhat curtailed. but at the same time i am pleased to see that common sense has prevailed, because if we had not been able to overcome these difficulties in the face of the decision we have to take today, it would have been a real slap in the face for the european union as a whole and for those who are to join us, a feeling of being once again rejected or left out. as regards the decision we are taking this morning, in replying in favour of the proposal put to us, i would say at once that my group will answer in favour almost unanimously, since only one of us will abstain; all the others will vote for it. they will do so with their eyes open and will feel that they are, on the one hand, erasing the scars on the body of this old europe, which - as some say - are the harsh consequence of the war and, on the other hand, correcting an injustice, because the countries which, as a result of the yalta agreements, found themselves on the other side of the iron curtain and thus lost not only their independence but also their cultural identity, have finally regained it. i am one of those who have regretted - and i have already had the opportunity to say so in this chamber - that the day after the berlin wall fell, we were not able to respond with a heartfelt outpouring and open our arms to our brothers in the east, which would have been in keeping with our traditions. i was afraid that eventually we would get bogged down in endless bureaucratic discussions. thank god we made it. so the decision we're about to make today is going to help erase those scars. we are also pleased because, as i have just said, the people who join us, who have lost their cultural identity and have just regained it, will contribute to changing it significantly by joining our european union. i do not know if everyone is aware of this, but i believe that at the same time freedom will win, cooperation between the states will also win and federalism will lose. i'm glad to hear that. what i would like to say is that if we had not been able to overcome the difficulties that have arisen during the psychodrama we have experienced, we would have been ridiculed. so let us rejoice in this positive final solution, even if it does not fully satisfy all parties. parliament will have other opportunities to defend its prerogatives. at least we'll have done the basics. europe is coming together again, because for us it is not about enlargement, it is about coming together again. those who are joining us are our brothers, they should never have been separated from us. we look forward to seeing them again.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. - mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate mr elmar brok on the quality of the work he has done so that we can vote today on a text which will be decisive in our history. i fully agree with the general philosophy of this report and the encouragement it contains. i would like to stress, however, in my own report, certain aspects which are essential to the completion of the internal market. firstly, there is the need for genuine independence of the judicial and administrative systems in the applicant countries. much remains to be done in the procedures for the selection, training and evaluation of judges. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use. impartiality in these matters is essential. secondly, the free movement of persons, the cornerstone of the internal market, is too often hindered, in particular by the lack of recognition of professional qualifications. finally, i encourage our future member states to intensify their efforts in the fight against counterfeiting and piracy, which is a key element in the respect for intellectual and industrial property. the european parliament is committed to remaining vigilant in relation to the aspects i have just mentioned. this vigilance is made possible by the measures put in place by the european commission in the period before and after accession. safeguard clauses specifically linked to the internal market may be implemented in the event of non-compliance with the obligations arising from accession and invoked as a warning before accession. it must be understood that these clauses create an additional safety net. i therefore invite the executive committee to report on these matters in its final report, due in november 2003. finally, i would like to stress the important moment we are living in now and will be living on 16 april. the last few days have unfortunately been marred by the conflict in iraq, the positions of the governments of central and eastern europe and, more recently, the problem of financing enlargement. but not voting in favour of the assent would be sending a very unfortunate signal to the candidate countries, where referendums are under way. the timetable must be respected, let's make room for our common future.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is enlargement and then there is war. these are events that raise fundamental questions for us. what are we ? what is europe? europe is peace, but with qualified majority voting and enlargement, europe would have voted for war and today germans, frenchmen and belgians would be posthumously decorated. europe is also law, the law of the people, with grotius, vattel, pufendorf, molina, suarez. poland is participating in a war in violation of international law and the charter. europe is above all the morality of the nations of immanuel kant. but the baltic states, neighbours of königsberg, the city of the philosopher of the categorical imperative, are in the camp of immorality. europe, after all, is memory, the memory of the tanks of the empire in budapest (1956), in prague (1968); but václav havel and hungary are supporting the tanks of another empire in baghdad, which has been turned into a ghetto. warsaw has forgotten the memory of europe. so, should we open up to those governments that have accepted war, rejected the law that forbids it, dismissed the morality that condemns it and forgotten the history of the aggressions they suffered? should we expand to turkey, to the bombed-out borders of kirkuk? it would be the europe of adventure and adventurous governments. that is fine, but article 2 of the constitution gives us other values. enlargement would be the europe of lies. that's too much! mr president, you are greek. on the temple of apollo at delphi it was written: nothing too much. ten more countries is too many.
- mr president, we will not interfere in disputing any particular point in the elmar brok report. we reject it as a whole for the simple reason that we reject enlargement in its very principle. there are several reasons for this. firstly, there is a logical reason: for us sovereignists, the current construction of europe is so contrary to the interests, principles and civilizations of the nations and peoples of europe, it is so manifestly incapable of speaking with one voice in the world, as the case of iraq shows, it is so badly organized, cluttered with bureaucracy and, more seriously, with feudalism - economic, financial feudalism of all kinds - that we have come to wish that our country, france, be free of it. and it's hard to see why we would impose on others this infernal machine that we reject for ourselves. but there are other reasons, of course: the people of europe are not ready, they are victims of their oligarchies, which themselves are simply following international conformity which will lead, once again, to disaster, because we deny reality. finally, i think that the president of the french republic, jacques chirac, has said very clearly and very correctly that the countries of eastern europe, and especially their oligarchies, are only aspiring to move from one empire to another and, in essence, to submit to the american empire, which is exactly the opposite of the sole raison d'être of the european union in our minds. for all these reasons, we shall not be voting for the elmar brok report tomorrow.
- mr president, commissioner, in a few moments we shall be voting on the ten accession treaties for the new members of the union. this is a huge step forward, and i am happy to be living in this moment which extends the long process of integration into the european institutions which began 12 years ago when hungary was the first post-communist country to join the council of europe. and yet, like many other members, i feel a kind of vertigo before taking this decisive step, especially since the state of the union itself is far from satisfactory. for my part, on behalf of the deep friendship which binds me to each of the candidate countries, i would also like to say to them that we are aware that we still have a long way to go together, and a lot of effort to really understand each other. the copenhagen criteria are certainly met. good job on the job . but the economic and democratic criteria which are necessary are not sufficient. we still have to really get to know each other. we must still analyse the world in the same way, imagine the same vision of our security, of our international relations, of our foreign policy, in short, we must still bridge in our minds and in our hearts the gap that has been created by fifty years of separation. in the end, today, let's be optimistic. it's a new door that opens to allow the reunion of a large family that has come from far away.
in writing. - the turco report, like the initiatives of the danish and greek governments which it proposes to reject, raises the question of control over europol. what is clear from this is that there is no democratic control over europol. but how could it be otherwise, when there is no democratic control over any national police? in this field, as in many others, the european union is nothing more than a juxtaposition of states. the european institutions are merely reproducing the absence of democratic control over the state apparatus. we elect representatives, but what kind of state in the european union has elected institutions and, even more so, the whole population exercising real control over the police and the military hierarchy? the european parliament is thus reduced, despite a few mock proposals which change nothing, to finding itself powerless. we therefore abstained on this report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but in the end it nevertheless rejects the initiative for reasons which are typical of the european parliament's approach. it does not want a protocol which would alter a convention. i refer to intergovernmental legal instruments which respect national sovereignty. it argues that a european constitution should first be adopted, which it hopes will make it possible to implement all these changes by a qualified majority of its members within the framework of the community system. we believe that the questions of police cooperation, as well as all the questions relating to the free movement of persons and immigration, should remain within the competence and control of the member states. the necessary european cooperation, as we proposed in our contribution to the convention (see our website: www.autre-europe.org), should be organised within the framework of a so-called interparliamentary pillar, where decisions are taken directly by the national parliaments, which are organised in a network. in these circumstances we cannot give our consent to the von boetticher report.
- by mr von wogau, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation in the former yugoslavia; that has now been stopped, which was only fair. nevertheless, it involved a joint declaration with the council in which the latter accepts the idea of co-decision in the adoption of future financial perspectives and seizes the opportunity to place the economic assistance to turkey under the expenditure heading of pre-accession aid. we do not agree on any of these points, and that is why i voted against the böge report. i would like to stress in passing that enlargement should give rise to a comprehensive financial audit. the structural funds should be abolished from an economic point of view and the individual countries should once again be masters of their own spatial planning. only a part of the funds was to be retained and only to help the new member states, and for a limited period, to reach the required level. that is what the british government has so wisely proposed to the convention. this is also what we proposed long ago in the white paper published by the uen group in 1997 on a europe of nations versus a europe of welfare.
- mr president, i abstained on the various votes and voted against the brok report. i therefore did not vote in favour of the opinion in accordance with the treaty on the accession of ten new states to the european union. this decision is costing me politically and emotionally, since for more than a decade i have been campaigning in the european parliament, in france and throughout europe to ensure that the enlargement of the european union takes place on the planned date and under conditions that ensure its success. i have taken this decision because i have become convinced that the dissociation between the process of geographical enlargement of the union and that of its institutional deepening was the result of an undeniable resignation of the present and future members of the union to the dilution of europe and the paralysis of its institutional system. in recent months, disagreements have increased between the members of the union. the convention is failing, since it aims to do little more than a minimal makeover of the present system. everyone is now resigned to the fact that the constitutional treaty will not be signed in december 2003, as originally planned. these are signs that do not deceive. the enlarged european union will be condemned to live under the debilitating regime of the treaty of nice. so it's bound to fail. i did not vote in favour because i wish the enlargement to be a success.
- mr president, i voted against mr brok's report, but i am in favour of enlargement. it's not out of personal animosity towards mr. brok, of course. this is because his report completely misses the necessary link between enlargement and deepening. at no point does he mention the delay we are taking in deepening the convention, or the impasse that we may fear for the convention. the bond we had hoped to form is broken. that is why i voted against mr brok's report. but should we punish the innocent, those who are not responsible for our delay? i don't think he did. that is why i voted in favour of the opinions. i am for enlargement, i am for reinforcement, i am against agreeing to abandon the reinforcement. the europe we are committed to is likely to be an enlarged but not a strengthened, one-legged europe. it is this one-leggedness, mr president, that i reject by voting against the brok report.
- mr president, i voted against the brok report and abstained on the opinions which were in accordance with it, not that i do not wish to welcome the ten new entrants - who naturally have their place in this europe which is theirs and no one could deny their choice - but i am concerned about the house they have just entered. can it have institutions strong enough to regulate the lives of 25 or more? will these institutions be sufficiently legible and understandable to every citizen, as, it seems to me, only a constitution can guarantee? will this enlargement not be used as a pretext for a dilution ? i am concerned about an opening in the institutional fog and naturally this vote is intended to express that concern.
mr president, i voted in favour of the opinions in accordance with the rules of procedure, but i abstained on the brok report because of the ambiguity of the wording concerning the independence of the future enlarged europe's foreign and defence policy vis-à-vis the united states. the institutional and financial conditions for enlargement are not good. the risks of a regression in political integration and the inadequacies of financial programming are real. but we have no right to hold ten peoples hostage to our iron fist with the council, or to close the door to them, on the pretext of our own inadequacies. more than a decade after the fall of the iron curtain, giving them a place in the union has become a historic obligation. we are responsible for the delays in institutional reforms which led us, after the bad treaty of nice, to convene the convention to finally give europe a constitution. this must be adopted at the earliest, after a short igc, the day after the convention, and before 1 may 2004. but today, we must not be mistaken. we are not deciding on institutional arrangements or financial perspectives. we say yes or no to people about their place in the union; the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe, and it has been a great help to the people of europe, to the peoples who have been kept apart from the construction of a democratic europe for five decades by the arbitrariness of history. it is with them that we must now fight the battle for the future of the union. it is with them that we must counter the drift towards a free trade area and work towards promoting a high-level social model. it is with them that we will continue the fight for a political europe that speaks with a strong and united voice in the world, for a constitution that allows countries who wish to share their foreign and defence policy without hindrance, and to constitute a european vanguard.
in writing. - (fr) the the only question put to members concerns the assent to the application for accession to the european union by 10 new countries, but parliament is also asked to give its consent to the content of the draft treaty dealing with accession. as we support the unification of the whole continent and the abolition of the borders which divide it, we are naturally also in favour of the right of these countries to join the european union if that is the choice of their peoples. we are, however, absolutely opposed, in spirit and in letter, to the draft treaty which the european institutions are trying to impose on them. the treaty, in its content, formalizes the imbalance between the rich and the poor in europe. the word integration covers a situation in which imperialist europe will try to dominate the new accession countries, especially those in eastern europe, which are regarded by the former as easy prey for their financial and industrial groups. as regards the form of the treaty, the new members have been pressured to accept it. their only choice is either to accept it as it is or not to join the union. the treaty creates a two-speed europe, both in terms of budget and european policy, where some will be more equal than others. (the minutes were suspended in accordance with rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - (fr) those who want to stabilise the continent, consolidate democracy and peace, strengthen the economy and sustainable development, and support a cultural and human dimension based on common values such as freedom and respect for fundamental rights and good governance and the rule of law should support the accession of the 10 new member states. the new member states will play a central role in building an even stronger and more effective union. this is an unprecedented challenge on political, economic and social levels. we must not forget that, if the challenge is accepted, it will unlock an extraordinary potential for strengthening and developing the union. an eu that will speak with one voice on the world political stage and play a leading role in international politics. i do not wish to put a stop to this historic event in any way. but if amendment no 1, amendment no 13, second part, and amendment no 19 are not adopted, i shall abstain. however, i shall vote in favour of accession by each of the 10 states when we vote on the various recommendations. i hope that our common future can begin today under the best possible conditions.
in writing. - (fr) we have said no to the accession treaties which have just been presented to the european parliament for an assent because we are committed federalists and want to make a success of enlargement. the enlargement process is in danger of being a waste because there are several preconditions which have not been met: first of all, institutional conditions. the european convention is unlikely to begin with any major overhaul of the institutions, which would allow them to become more democratic and more open, and it will not allow secularization to be declared one of the fundamental principles of the union. secondly, there are the social conditions. so far there are no plans to accompany the draft european constitution with a social treaty containing guarantees against any restructuring of enterprises and assurances concerning public services. the agreement, which was agreed at the last minute, also infringed the budgetary powers of the european parliament. it places enlargement in an unrealistic and discriminatory economic framework for the acceding countries. it is a serious threat to the success of the process, especially the common agricultural policy. the adaptation of the cap to regional development is thus in jeopardy. the applicant countries will join an integrated system which is nothing but a common market. that is the view of the european social democrats on europe.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) a look at europe's unhappy history, full of internal strife and war, should help us to understand the extent of the european parliament's vote today on the report on the enlargement of the european union. the enlargement of the european union wins by being presented as a reunion of the peoples of our continent, who have finally been brought together and are now united by common basic values such as freedom, democracy, solidarity and respect for human rights and the environment. as members of the european parliament, we are pleased to have been able to contribute to this review and we must do everything we can to ensure that it succeeds! we must, however, regret that the enlargement budget is still ridiculous in the light of the challenges of such a project and our common future. i'll just remind you of a couple of numbers for comparison. from 1948 to 1951, the united states contributed the equivalent of 97 billion euros to help eastern europe recover from the ravages of war. that's equivalent to 1.5% of the gdp of the united states. in the context of german reunification, eur 600 billion was invested between 1990 and 1999 to finance the reconstruction of the former east germany. the european council has set aside only 0.15% of the union's gdp for enlargement. from now on we must show our solidarity in responding to continental challenges of this kind. it is worth remembering that our future is now linked to the future of our new members and neighbours, and it is our task to interpret that future.
in writing. - (fr) we are voting on the enlargement of the european union with 10 new members. from the outset we have wanted to avoid interfering in the choice of the peoples of eastern europe as to whether or not to join the european union. for obstacles from the present members would be perceived as if we were living in a fortress europe for the rich and refusing to be solidar with the other populations who wanted to join us. but we reject the conditions for a discounted enlargement which does not even respect equality for the members and which does not really take into account the general increase in poverty and unemployment in the candidate countries. these are the results of the policies adopted over the last 10 years to meet the accession criteria. we can therefore understand that the people concerned today expect at least a return in the form of rights, structural funds and agricultural funds. but the eu tends to regard the new members as second-rate countries. the eu celebrates the reunification of the continent as a political and historical achievement, but it hinders the free movement of persons. the eu celebrates democracy and pluralism, but the aims of the changes it has introduced and the means used to implement them are full of dogma that leads to social decline. that is why we voted against the brok report.
in writing. - (fr) ever since the former soviet bloc began to crumble, i and many others have been fighting to facilitate the rapid accession of the countries now entering the european union. i am glad that this process, which the european federalists have deliberately delayed, is on the verge of success. i am concerned, however, to find that the union, unlike the candidate countries, which have been able to adapt to join the union, is currently suffering from a dangerous sclerosis. contrary to what the rapporteur was referring to when he mentioned the need to strengthen the union's institutional capacity, i clearly believe that enlargement means abandoning the old community method. this is reflected in the attitudes of the future member states immediately before the military intervention in iraq. our interpretation of european solidarity, which has been with us since the beginning of european integration, differs very markedly from the new member states' understanding of the concept. those are the terms and conditions, and we have to live by them. it is not worth demanding more integration, a supranational level and ultimately conformity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. europe needs freedom and flexibility, not ideology. it draws its strength solely from the diversity of nations that make up the union.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to give its assent to the treaty of accession of the ten new member states. i voted for the opinion after careful consideration, because it is true that we are setting the union on a long and difficult path. but it is also true that the construction of the european union has always been difficult, and it is only natural that it takes a long time. the countries of central and eastern europe which are joining the union have made extraordinary efforts to join us. they have rapidly modernized their economies, reformed their social systems and democratized their political system. all this has been achieved in a few years, and they deserve recognition for their courage and for the sacrifices they have made. the people of central and eastern europe have lived a changing life, and the events are not far behind and are still fresh in their memories. we cannot reject them simply because we are afraid of delaying our version of europe. we have no right to do that. the unification of europe is a historic achievement for us and we have no right to pass up this historic opportunity, it will cost us very dearly. the enlargement process must go hand in hand with an internal enlargement of the institutions, and we know that we would not have had internal enlargement without external enlargement. all those who really and sincerely want enlargement to succeed have understood the need to vote for the assent today in order to really reach out to the people of the 10 countries. the european union is built on the idea of peace, so let us preserve this idea and make room for a common future.
in writing. - (fr) our opposition to the brok report reflects our opposition to the enlargement process as it has taken place. we have always been ardent supporters of european reunification. we have always fought against the artificial division of the yalta agreement and fought for europe to be able to breathe with both lungs again. but unfortunately the eu began to neglect a historic opportunity. the central and eastern european countries should have been offered the opportunity to accede to the intergovernmental part of the treaties immediately after liberation. once this solemn event was over, each state was to have the choice of participating in the various common policies, and appropriate time limits were to have been set, taking into account local conditions. corruption and social upheaval could have been avoided. but instead, after endless negotiations with the commission and in the spirit of bureaucracy, the same straitjacket and the same road map is drawn down on everyone, and all borders and safeguards are abolished at one stroke, while a sea of safeguard clauses is added to the treaties. the european union has thus succeeded in doing something very special, namely replacing the joy of meeting with a diffuse worry. it would be irresponsible to turn a blind eye to the fact that the delayed and standardized enlargement is now seen by many in both the east and the west as more of a threat than an opportunity.
in writing. - (fr) we voted in favour of the assent procedure for the accession of 10 new member states to the european union. it was not a question of casting doubt on enlargement today, which was what was really at stake in the vote. in 2004, there is no longer a new or old europe, but a union that will finally be of its rightful size and will cover the whole continent. it is true that the vote took place in difficult international circumstances, but they should not doubt the enlargement. today we reaffirm our confidence in the ability of the applicant countries to join the european family and we acknowledge their tremendous political, economic and social efforts, despite the upheavals in diplomatic circles. some people are concerned about the institutional fog that the 25 risk entering, since the future european constitution may not have entered into force on 1 may 2004. since the work of the convention is at a standstill, the vote on the assent should have been postponed. but should we let the candidate countries pay for our failure to shape and reform the european institutions? we don't mean that, but it could be true. the fact that we are going to confirm enlargement on the date set should make us commit ourselves to the timetable for institutional reform. this is the strong political and even positive message from the european parliament to the member states.
in writing. - (fr) i voted in favour of all the reports on the accession of the 10 new member states, because we believe that there is a historic demand for reunification with the east which we cannot put off any longer and which we must not destroy by minor quarrels. the enlargement has already been delayed too long. as we proposed, all the liberated eastern countries should have been included in a kind of greater european union by the beginning of the 1990s, which would have acted as a forum and developed concrete forms of cooperation according to methods of variable geometry adapted to the capabilities of each country. however, this approach would have required a complete reversal of the direction of european integration towards flexibility. the commission did not want that and therefore found a way to introduce a different strategy, namely to make the eastern countries wait and then to make them join a superstate which had been defined in advance. we repeat that this is a bad strategy. it has only allowed bitterness to flourish among the applicant countries without giving them the opportunity to catch up today. but we must vote for it now in the hope that it will help us to change the union from within.
in writing. - (fr) i voted for the gahler report on the enlargement of the union to include estonia, as i did for nine other candidates, and at the same time i deplored the fact that the european parliament is trying to exploit the situation in parallel in the brok report to get the old and new members to make super-federalist commitments. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. on the contrary, the members of the inter-party group sos democracy, of which i am a member, want enlargement to give rise to a fundamental restructuring of the eu in order to create greater flexibility. that is why they have attached to their endorsement in principle a text containing 10 key demands for a freer europe. we are particularly demanding that the basic treaty which will be the result of the present convention and the forthcoming intergovernmental conference be signed only after enlargement, that is after 1 may 2004, when the union will have 25 countries. this will enable the new members to participate fully in the final drafting of the text. and in this way we can counter the federalist strategy which tries to determine our future choices in advance.
in writing. - (fr) the republic of cyprus is in an insoluble legal situation because turkey has illegally occupied the northern part of the island. the occupation has been condemned by both the un and the eu. i thought it necessary to vote in favour of accession, because a 'no' vote would have punished the cypriots twice, if they were occupied by the turks on the one hand and excluded from the union on the other. in fact, we should have dealt with turkey very harshly, because that is the only thing it understands, and made it quite clear that it would lose its status as an associated partner with the eu if it did not immediately evacuate the northern part of the island. i regret that we did not have the courage to say it then, and i hope that we will at some point. but unfortunately, this is not the direction the union is currently taking, it is still committed to reconciliation and maintains the prospect of turkey's accession by doubling the financial aid to the country and giving it the status of pre-accession funds. in these circumstances we demand that a referendum be held in all european countries before they open any future accession negotiations with turkey. let me repeat that such a referendum must be held before any negotiations.
in writing. - (fr) the reason why we have not voted on cyprus' accession to the european union is not because we have anything to complain about with regard to the cypriot people. on the contrary, it is the irresponsibility of the eu's top management that we object to. the fact that we are accepting a divided country into the european union, a country whose existential problem has not been solved, and at the same time regretting it, is yet another sign, if more were needed, of the eu's inability to show real political will. the accession of cyprus to the union should of course have been conditional on its reunification. instead of making this condition and using the question of cyprus' accession as a lever, the eu seems to be complaining that it is taking a divided country into its midst. am i dreaming or am i awake? we have missed yet another opportunity, and that will mean admitting a country into the union which is occupied by a foreign power, giving turkey a further and more permanent means of blackmail against the union, and putting the union's external border on the green line. the latter border is not recognised by the eu and by no one outside turkey!
in writing. - (fr) we support the right of poland, as well as all the other candidate countries, to join the european union. but the conditions of poland's accession illustrate the inequalities in the treaty of accession. for example, poland is not entitled to the same agricultural aid as the countries of the present eu, despite the fact that farmers make up a large proportion of the population. but the european institutions prefer to subsidize their capitalist agriculture to make profits rather than help the poor peasants of the east to live off their labour. in addition, despite the legal juggling, polish workers have to wait seven years to enter the union and work. it is also inexcusable that the union, which is so unreliable in demanding sacrifices from the working classes in the country, is so ready to make concessions to the polish church. the eu not only accepts the ban on voluntary abortion, which restricts women's freedom, it also prohibits community legislation from amending polish legislation in this area in advance, thus leaving polish women to the whim of a highly reactionary church!
in writing. (fr) once again the vote on the timetable for the european parliament's 2004 sessions has been exploited by those opposed to strasbourg, who want to reduce the number of sessions of the parliament in that city. but once again, this vote is contrary to the treaty. the protocol on the location of the institutions stipulates that the 12 monthly sessions of the plenary session shall be held in strasbourg. traditionally, this number is reduced to 11 sessions in election years. however, the group against strasbourg went even further this time by providing for only 10 sessions. this is partly the result of the absurd action of the socialists, who wanted to cancel the last part-session in april because they did not want to work on 1 may. the paradox is even greater, since the approved timetable envisages the holding of five mini-session in brussels in 2004, which, however, should not theoretically be added to the timetable, unless the 12 normal sessions in strasbourg were overloaded. we call on the french government to take this illegal vote to the court of justice. the european parliament is not really a sovereign body. it has only the specific powers conferred on it by the treaty, which it must comply with.
in writing. - (fr) for our part, we are not going to appear in the european parliament on 1 may, given the special significance of this day as the international workers' day. as regards the rest of the calendar, we have no preferences or particular positions.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the uen group, true to its political line, will oppose any attempt to reduce the duration and/or number of sessions in strasbourg. although in recent years various lobbies have multiplied their efforts to move the seat of the european parliament permanently from strasbourg to brussels - here we are thinking in particular of the reduction of the parliamentary session to four days and the higher number of extraordinary sessions in brussels - the uen group demands respect for the spirit and the letter of the treaties, which stipulate that 12 annual sessions are to be held in strasbourg. it is true that a strasbourg session is usually cancelled during an election year. at the same time, however, it is surprising to note that the number of extraordinary meetings remains unchanged. this is an unusual situation and i have therefore proposed that two extraordinary sessions be cancelled for 2004 in order to reinstate the 12th strasbourg session in accordance with the law in force. i am sure you will understand that this step requires all of us to live up to our responsibilities. for us, it's as simple as that. strasbourg should not be reduced to a mere annex of brussels. strasbourg is and must remain the seat of the european parliament.
in the case of the european parliament, the european council has already decided to hold a debate on the future of the european union. but the treaties and the case law of the court of justice of the european communities on this matter clearly state that the european parliament's calendar must include 12 sessions in strasbourg each year, or 11 in election years, before the decision is taken to add extra mini-sessions in brussels. the calendar adopted for the 2004 election year does not include a strasbourg session, let alone the absurdity of a vote cancelling the strasbourg session originally scheduled to receive the elected members of the new member states of the european union on the same day as the european parliament gives its assent to the accession treaties of these states. in view of the alleged illegality of the european parliament's vote, the french delegation to the ppe-de group demands that the president, mr pat cox, immediately draw the consequences and annul the vote. it called for an emergency meeting of the conference of presidents to be convened to arrange a new vote as soon as possible, in accordance with community law.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the amendments in particular extend the definition of family members eligible for family reunification, speed up the individual's possibility of seeking family reunification and limit the member states' possibilities of refusal. in any case, the commission's original proposal was already very bad in our view, both in its principles and in its provisions. this vote was intended to send a clear signal to the council. although it is not obliged to adopt the amendments of the european parliament (the latter having been consulted only on this matter), the council must nevertheless make it clear that if it endorses the principle of regulation of family reunification at european level, it is moving into a dubious direction. it is obvious that the commission and its allies will continue to push for the council's alleged right to be increased tomorrow. the commission lacks a true understanding of what is in europe's best interests.
in writing. - (fr) we are of course against polygamy and the oppression it entails for women. we cannot accept, however, that the fact that one of the spouses is already living in a host country should be used as a pretext to prohibit the other spouses from entering and staying in that country. behind a moralising exterior, the only thing that is at stake is to create yet another barrier to immigration by breaking personal bonds. although we reject the principle of such a restriction, we voted for the amendment which at least provides for some exceptions where 'the best interests of a minor child so require'. we have also rejected the bullying amendments, such as the use of dna tests against immigrants or the public health argument, which is based on the selfish view that we must refuse to provide the treatment that european countries are able to offer to the populations who do not have access to it. and again, the proposals which represent progress are not binding and instead of approximating national legislation by the best common denominator, the proposals as a whole approximate legislation by the lowest common denominator.
- the votes are in. (the sitting was suspended at 2.15 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the house. the aim was to update the previous report by our colleague catherine lalumière, an update made necessary by the events of september 2001 and by the contribution we wanted to make to the work of our colleagues in the convention. the fact is that it is difficult to assess any european security and defence architecture today, at a time when there is every reason to fear that it has, at least temporarily, been torn apart. my colleagues in the committee on foreign affairs took a different view when they adopted the report on 25 march, in the midst of the crisis, which will be put to the vote in plenary tomorrow. i see at least three reasons. the first is the exercise of a duty of responsibility towards our constituents. the second is the awareness that the present crisis must serve as a lesson on the eve of enlargement. the third and final reason is our desire to clarify the policy of transatlantic cooperation, a policy which we believe the member states are determined to continue to pursue and on which many of us hope that the current differences are much more apparent than real. first, responsibility to our constituents. all the eurobarometers we have been aware of have for years shown that a majority of over two thirds of european citizens are in favour of a common security and defence policy. it was only natural that our colleagues in the committee on foreign affairs should have been similarly sensitive to this call. this is what happened in the vote in committee at the end of a very rich debate which involved the examination of almost 200 amendments. in any event, the application of the new rules of procedure could have allowed a simple vote in plenary, but we agreed that the importance of the subject justified this debate in which we wished to involve the council and the commission. we were very keen, and this will be my second point, to draw the lessons of the present crisis without further delay. europe has not been able to speak with one voice in the un security council, as the mere application of the maastricht treaty required. is this not proof, mr president-in-office of the council, that the time has come to change our institutions to avoid in future the disorder and cacophony which have gradually, and i hope temporarily, become established in the concert of the member states? we know that the citizens themselves, as i have already said, but perhaps even more so the whole world, are waiting for it to take its place in the construction of a multipolar world, so that the fate of the planet does not continue to rest solely on the shoulders of the american president. i would like to make a third point, the most important. is europe prepared to take on the responsibility that is expected of it? i'm not so sure. the choice for her is clearer now than ever. or, as in the cold war, the member states continue to entrust the care of their defence solely to the armed forces of the united states. in that case, they cannot claim to lecture the american people on the use that washington might decide to make of them. or they are finally accepting what the american people have always demanded of them, namely, burden sharing, which obviously requires a greater contribution to a common effort. the secretary-general of the atlantic alliance, lord robertson, denounced the other day in your presence, commissioner patten, the gap between the ambitions of european governments and the means they are willing to devote to their achievement, what he called the 'gap of ambition'. i hope that the current crisis will make them aware of this and decide to start bridging this gap. (applause) i would like to thank
council mr president, commissioner, members of the european parliament, the recent crisis in iraq has made quite clear europe's backwardness, particularly in foreign and defence policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the crisis can also have a constructive effect on european policies, and in this respect i think that the morillon report comes at a good time, even if it was not visible when it began. the breakdown of the traditional power dichotomy today requires new strategies and security measures. in this context, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is not the only source of crises. the european union is not only a threat to the world's security and stability. widespread poverty, organised crime, state violence, deep economic crises can also have negative impacts on global stability and security, such as military or terrorist actions. we must certainly consider whether we are developing the appropriate policies for all these risks and at what time. in parallel with whatever response we choose, we consider it absolutely necessary to base global security on mutual trust, cooperation, consensus through international organizations, alliances, networks. the way we deal with threats to global security will also determine our future in building peace and ensuring a healthy economic environment, with credible answers to global political, economic, and even environmental problems. the european council has already made a number of recommendations on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels, and the council has also made a number of recommendations on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in strasbourg. both the morillon report and other related initiatives, such as the barnier report, have contributed important ideas which can be of particular use for the debate to be held at the intergovernmental level, but also at the present stage, at which the relevant council bodies are preparing texts relating to the completion of the esdp mechanism and, of course, in the assembly. i should like to point out here, and i will explain this in a moment, that some of the ideas expressed in the morillon report relate to initiatives which have already been launched and are under consideration in the relevant institutions of the union. i will start by addressing the contemporary threats to security, stability, peace, which have taken very different forms from the known threats of the past. the truth is that the esdp mechanism was not designed from the outset to deal with horizontal and asymmetric threats, such as terrorism or the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's external borders. in this context, two specific objectives have been set as a first step: the use of union military forces to protect the civilian population from terrorist attacks on the one hand, and union military forces deployed in crisis areas on the other. the further development and improvement of military capabilities is undoubtedly a key element of the security and later defence of the union. we attach particular importance to this issue and, as part of the continuation of efforts so far, a capability conference is to be convened to assess and record the progress made in implementing the related action plan, the ecap, and to chart the way forward. the presidency has drawn up a text with guidelines for the practice after the completion of the work of the relevant working groups, the ecap panels. we hope that these initiatives will give new impetus to improving our operational capability in the military sector and, by extension, help to strengthen the basis for the evolution of the esdp. in this connection, the development of the rapid reaction capability is of particular importance and for this reason this issue has been included in the main priorities in the field of the military aspect of the esdp already by the spanish presidency. the operational framework governing the establishment and operation of the rapid reaction units is under consideration in the relevant political and military bodies and we are making every effort to complete it by the end of the greek presidency. it is clear that the strengthening of the union's military capabilities will not be possible without broadening and deepening our cooperation in the field of armaments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the decision of the european council, which we took in brussels, had two parts: first, to instruct the council to examine the role of defence research and development in the wider context of the union's defence capabilities and, secondly, to consider the possibility of creating a european armaments agency, an intergovernmental european agency. both these issues are very important steps towards strengthening cooperation in the field of defence. defence research can also be combined with the union's competitiveness policies, fuelling and developing multiple sectors towards stronger growth. the same approach is being taken to develop a comprehensive space policy for the union, which will also apply to security, something which is also mentioned in the morillon report. the developments of the last decade have made it clear that, as many risks are common, so our response must be coordinated and common. in this context, it is necessary to cultivate and promote a common understanding of security. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to develop their economic and social cohesion. the idea of a civilian peace corps, as mentioned in the morillon report, is a very good one and will help to raise the awareness of the average european citizen about what is happening in the field of security and how we are dealing with it in practice and participating in it. we are seriously considering this idea and it is very likely that the presidency will put forward a text of guidelines. the union's relationship with nato is undoubtedly a component of european security. the european option in dealing with crises is, in any case, to appeal first to the will and action of regional and international organizations, that is, to give priority to dialogue. the recent cooperation agreement between the union and nato is an important step towards the complementarity and mutual reinforcement of the two organisations. i would like to take this opportunity to emphasize the point made in the morillon report that the action of both organizations and their members should be guided and governed by the principles of the united nations charter. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the report is a very good report, but there is no doubt that it proposes and extends a very wide range of ideas which concern very serious issues and institutional aspects of the esdp and which will contribute greatly to our future discussions. i shall not go into the details of each of the ideas in the report, although many of them are very interesting. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in the area of the protection of workers from asbestos. we have reached a critical juncture. the union has embarked on a bold enlargement and should accordingly deepen its policies in steady steps, so as to move forward on different bases than in the past. the vast majority of europeans expect this, as mr morillon's report points out. the times call for determination and action, with the ultimate aim of promoting the union's defence identity. the union will thus strengthen its security and strengthen its foreign policy. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the issues are still open and the lessons we have learned about the causes and development of the iraqi crisis should become our shield to prevent and prevent similar situations in the future and to make europe's presence stronger in the world system. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
commission. – mr president, i should first of all like to congratulate general morillon most cordially on a very comprehensive – and certainly timely – contribution to the debate on the development of european security and defence policy. the timeliness was rightly referred to both by my honourable friend and by the minister in the presidency. the number of amendments that the committee considered before adopting this resolution is, in many respects, a testament to the depth of interest, but also frankly to the differences of view, on this key area of european policy. in responding today i must keep in mind the current responsibilities of the commission in security and defence issues. i shall certainly keep them in mind and if i do not mr van orden will remind me of what they are. whatever is recommended in future by the convention, where my colleague, commissioner barnier, has ably led the discussions on defence issues – and i know that he has briefed the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy in the course of the deliberations on this report – those commission responsibilities are at the moment pretty limited when compared to the range of issues covered in the text before us. the commission is not involved in the purely military aspects of european security and defence policy. that is exclusively for the member states. i shall not therefore comment on the specifically military proposals, including the establishment of a permanent standing military force, a collective defence clause or a joint military college. but the treaty does associate the commission with esdp – article 27 does that in terms – and we are actively involved in all discussions on crisis management operations in the context of esdp, in particular in those that relate to the civilian crisis management instruments, for example policing, the rule of law, civilian administration and civil protection. in this context i am pleased to see that the resolution before us recognises the importance of civilian, as well as military, contributions to crisis management. but it is impossible – this is a point i have made on many occasions in this chamber – to separate purely military matters from related issues in which we in the commission are competent, and have a real contribution to make. military and non-military issues cannot be placed neatly in separate boxes. nor should they be, because they need to be closely coordinated in the service of a single strategy. the commission, for example, may be bankrolling police support in post-conflict situations as in bosnia and herzegovina, where on 1 january the european union took over the police mission from the united nations; or we may be arranging for the training of border services where uncontrolled mass migration is generating conflict; or we may be helping to re-establish administrative structures in countries that are emerging from crises, as we have seen in the balkans and as we can see in afghanistan today. the commission already has an impressive range of instruments and expertise which can be used in crisis situations. new european union instruments may be necessary in the security field, as has been suggested by general morillon. but the most important requirement is that all available instruments should serve agreed european policy objectives in any given situation. current events, i have to say, show that this is far from being the case. another area where the commission has an important role to play relates to defence equipment policy. in my view, defence trade and production cannot and should not be treated as a chasse gardée within the single market. procurement of defence equipment, competition between defence companies, research and development, exports and imports of defence equipment, internal market aspects of defence trade and dual-use goods which have civil and military applications – all these are areas in which the benefits of the single market are of relevance to european industry. there is considerable scope for improvement here. the commission recently adopted a communication to the council and parliament on the defence equipment industry in which it points to some areas where substantial progress is possible in giving european union taxpayers more value for the money they invest in their security. the concerns on duplication and fragmentation in arms production and procurement and the lack of interoperability – identified in the resolution before us – are some of the key issues that we sought to address in our communication. we hope that the work we are initiating as a follow-up to the communication will help to develop the strong and competitive defence industry, transparent market conditions and healthy climate for investments in research and development necessary for the strengthening of esdp. ultimately, much of the credibility of europe's common foreign and security policy depends on the european union's military capacity. the creation of the 60 000-strong 'rapid reaction force' being set up under esdp will certainly help to increase the european union's credibility abroad. and the launch of the first ever european union military operation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia last month shows that esdp is not just a theoretical construct. but i fully agree with my honourable friend general morillon that it remains difficult for our allies to take europe seriously unless we spend more on our security. it is not enough to argue that europe is picking up its share of the bill by paying most of the world's development aid, true as this may be, or by increasing even further our humanitarian assistance. we also need to invest more in developing our capabilities such as airlift capacity, special forces and battlefield communication equipment. if not, our allies will remain of the opinion that europe cashed in too easily its peace dividend after the fall of the berlin wall. delivery of aid should remain the prime task of the humanitarian organisations to ensure neutrality, independence and impartiality of such humanitarian operations. respect for these principles is paramount for meeting humanitarian needs whenever there is a crisis. the commission therefore welcomes the reference in the report to the guidelines on the use of military and civil defence assets to support united nations humanitarian activities in complex emergencies which were released by the un on 20 march 2003. they fix clear rules regarding the relationship between military and humanitarian actors in un humanitarian operations. the thrust of the guidelines should apply equally to the use of european military and civil defence assets in any humanitarian operation. i would like to say one final word about international humanitarian law, which governs the conduct of hostilities. we believe that international humanitarian law is adapted to today's conflicts, provided that warring parties and all parties to the geneva conventions respect their obligations. i would at this stage express the commission's appreciation of the role of the international committee of the red cross as promoter and guardian of the conventions. finally, i would like to say once again to my honourable friend that this report is almost painfully timely. it raises a number of issues which will go right to the heart of our credibility in europe as we seek to make a greater contribution to international affairs in the years ahead; but, as i have said on previous occasions in this chamber, there comes a moment in politics where one is obliged to put one's money where one's mouth is. we have long since passed that stage when we are talking about security issues. (applause)
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, two years after the report i had the honour of presenting to parliament on the same subject, i am pleased to give my full support to mr morillon's text. after the adoption, as i hope, of a few amendments tabled by our group, we should have no difficulty in voting on the motion for a resolution. i shall therefore limit myself to emphasizing certain points which seem to me particularly important in the context of the very eventful spring of 2003. this is not a good context for the new european security and defence policy, the esdp. since 11 september 2001, we have seen the european union largely sidelined politically and militarily, whether it be in afghanistan or iraq, or the israeli-palestinian conflict. our presence is not non-existent, but limited to civilian and humanitarian actions. it's important, but it's not enough. worse, during this period the union became disunited. despite the praiseworthy efforts of the greek presidency to secure the adoption of common platforms, iraq has divided us: first, on the nature of our transatlantic relations and on our degree of autonomy vis-à-vis the united states; secondly and consequently, on major principles such as the use of force, the place of international law or the role of the united nations. but despite this dismal picture, i would like to say loud and clear that we must not give up. several countries, belgium, germany, france and luxembourg, have already taken the initiative of reviving their security and defence policy. greece, which holds the presidency of the union, is in favour of this. prime minister simitis recently said so. i hope that the convention, together with president giscard d'estaing, will also make proposals after a few weeks of silence and hesitation on this subject. excellent ideas concerning the institutions of foreign and security policy and defence policy have already been expressed by mr dehaene and mr barnier; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and today mr morillon's report makes a whole series of interesting proposals, for example on the objectives of the cfsp and esdp in a new international environment, on the new role of nato, on relations between the european union and nato, on the military capabilities we need to be simply credible, particularly in the field of high technology. of course, this is not about competing with the united states, that would be completely stupid and impossible. but it is a question of taking into account the data which are ultimately quite simple. the geographical proximity and common borders of europeans mean that they are de facto united in their security. by their traditions, especially cultural ones, they have important things and principles in common to defend in worldly affairs. finally, with their wealth and the economic instruments they have at their disposal, europeans have the means to spread their ideas and defend their interests when necessary, anywhere in the world, if they have the will to do so. in short, europeans simply have a role to play in the world, without claiming to dominate it, but also without any submission or any relationship of vassalage. mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, get on with it! parliament wants that and supports you.
- mr president, it's always the same. when the european chimeras are shot down in the middle of the flight by reality, our 'europeanist' dreamers launch others, even more absurd, in a kind of forward flight that would be laughable if it were not so serious. with the morillon report, the chimera of today is european defence, which is an old moon. it has already made many simple minds dream throughout the 20th century, with no results whatsoever. already aristide briand was agitating the idea, with the dramatic result of disarming the resistance and the spirit of defense in france. the chimera was revived in 1948 at the hague congress, and then by a certain winston churchill in 1950 with the ced, which was born of his daydreams and which failed. we must also pay tribute to the french parliament for having succeeded in putting an end to it. fifty years later, we are still at the same point, that is, we have not made any progress. we have made so little progress that the essential element of a common defence policy, which would be the creation of a european defence industry, is not only not moving forward but is actually going backwards, since, it should be remembered, most of the weapons europeans buy are not bought from one another: about 60% are bought from the united states. we should start there if we are to talk about defence policy. but, finally, this defence policy is a chimera, because you cannot have a defence policy without a common foreign policy. this was confirmed by the maastricht treaty in title v in 1992, but it has never been implemented in any crisis - rwanda, afghanistan, kosovo. we couldn't do it, because we were united in the american follow-up. and today, the common foreign and security policy is again on the rise. no, ladies and gentlemen, let's not get carried away. europe must be based on reality. the realities, as we see today more than ever, are the states, and the states must not allow themselves to be deprived of what constitutes them: a spirit of defence, an instrument of defence. i shall confine myself to wishing that france, whose global responsibilities are constantly growing, might strengthen its own defence instruments. it is also its only contribution, its best contribution to what remains of europe.
- mr president, to use the words of the french comedian, everything is in everything and vice versa. in the face of the obvious failure of the so-called european union in the fields of economic growth and employment, the rapporteur, who unfortunately seems to forget that he is a general in the french army, is advocating a defence concept which would mean the reduction of france to a level that is currently that of belgium, and more! of course, this objective is pursued unfailingly by all those who, for various reasons, believe that the concept of a 'power europe' is a means of reviving a european construction which is in a bad state. the current war in iraq should make all these good people realize that the nations are cold monsters with only their own interests. the recent failures of the european transport aircraft, which could have been easily manufactured much faster and for much less money, the carpet-dealer's talk about the galileo project, the very high costs of any multinational arms manufacture, the fate of hundreds of thousands of workers whose jobs are threatened, all this is of no importance to these political professionals whose only objective is to last as long as possible. the enlarged europe will need stability, and this stability will not, of course, be achieved by multiplying legal artifices, unrealistic cooperation, incompetent bodies, false powers and false appearances. whatever differences we may have today on the middle east, eurosceptics of all stripes will not fail to fight, when the time comes, against this chimera of "european power", and they will do so without resorting to exceptions or reservations.
- madam president, between the time when the morillon report was drawn up and today, major international developments have taken place which mean that the defence of europe can no longer be dealt with in a comprehensive and uniform manner. it is no longer possible to pretend that we are still defining a common defence policy, which is intended to implement a common foreign and security policy for all the member states. the clashes in the security council over key issues and the outbreak of another war after the kosovo war, this time against iraq, in violation of the provisions of the san francisco charter, have been a powerful indication of the deep divisions that divide the current and future member states of the european union in matters of foreign policy. two conceptions of europe and its role, two types of foreign policy, two visions of the international order have emerged with great clarity. we must take note of this and we would be wrong to see it at all costs as a circumstantial crisis which, once it has passed, would allow us to return to the old concepts and to resume the essentially semantic games we love about the cfsp and esdp. from now on, all matters relating to foreign affairs and defence at the level of the union can only be considered in terms of variable geometry. this approach has become a must from being optional. it's now the mandatory crossing point. a variable geometry which will also lead to more efficiency and less verbalization. the convention should now use its talents in this direction. it is therefore necessary to distinguish between the proposals in the morillon report, which have been rendered totally obsolete by recent developments, and those which remain relevant. under the first heading i would include paragraph 54 proposing that the european union be granted a permanent seat on the security council. this proposal is clearly contrary to the present needs of europe, which must continue to have two permanent seats to express the two different conceptions, the two main ways in which the european countries are divided. under the second heading, i would like to mention the proposals concerning the essential cooperation to be developed in the first place in the fight against terrorism, which the consequences of the war in iraq will make even more imperative, and secondly in the production and purchase of arms. the current events also provide a powerful indication of the damage that the peace dividend ideology has caused in europe. i therefore welcome the timely reappearance of the concept of community preference in the morillon report, but i am simply sorry that it coincides with its disappearance in another area, which is also strategic, that of the cap, namely food independence or, to use american terminology, food weapons. the security of supply, i quote from the morillon report, must apply to food as well as to arms. we must ensure that commissioner lamy remembers this in the context of the doha round negotiations.
- madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the gue-ngl, i of course share many of the concerns of the majority of my group, and in particular, like them, i ask myself the same question: how is it possible to make progress in the field of defence without first defining a common foreign policy? i would add that i too am firmly opposed to the very principle of a pre-emptive war such as the one currently being waged in iraq, and i regret the disagreements between european countries on this major issue. however, i think and say that if we do not want to strengthen the monopoly of nato, an organization which we know is dominated by the united states of america, and if we want to be able to resolve conflicts through effective and strong european diplomacy, we must give ourselves the means of a europe of defence. we need a defence europe with clear objectives and principles, with specific missions, with the right capabilities and weapons and with a legitimate decision-making process that is democratically controlled. i believe that conflicts all over the world should be settled through diplomatic means, especially within the framework of the united nations. but to be able to weigh diplomatically and therefore to solve problems through diplomacy, we must have a real military capacity and i am one of those who believe that europe has no right to deprive itself of it. in short, if europe is no longer willing to leave its future in the hands of the leaders of the united states of america, it must give itself the means to do so and the europe of defence must finally be put into practice.
- madam president, "argos fed him with the blood of the chimera", here is a verse by péguy on homer that i would gladly refer to the critics of the morillon report. but the report by general morillon is not a pipe dream, because it is probably the most interesting and well-researched document i have read on this subject in many years. i would like to mention the reasons for my satisfaction, which are both ambitious in terms of objectives and realistic in terms of progress. we said the timeliness of this report. it has also been said, and previous speakers have stressed it, that it is comprehensive. i would like to thank him for his sense of perspective and for the way in which he has proposed a very satisfactory articulation of the institutional arrangements to be taken into account. i would also like to emphasize the extremely fruitful way in which he uses the concept of enhanced cooperation, applying it in a realistic and pragmatic way to defence with a view to a genuine community defence. the report is a bit like a 'kit' of a defence europe, with an adaptation to the realities of today and tomorrow, and in particular to terrorism. madam president, it is too often said that generals prepare for the wars of yesterday and the day before yesterday. i do not want to see any new wars tomorrow, but we know that there are still many conflicts. a general suggests we be prepared for the conflicts of today and tomorrow. you should thank him.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the profound difficulties we are experiencing are indicative of existing trends which should not be forgotten. britain's longstanding and privileged relationship with the united states is not new. the atlanticist vision of the applicant countries is justified by our own weaknesses and by the fact that they consider europe incapable of defending them. unfortunately, they're not wrong. it is high time that we drew the lessons of this crisis, which may be beneficial, as were those of the previous ones which have enabled us to move forward. maybe we can finally answer the question: what do we want to do together ? the two opposing visions of europe are those of those who want only a large area of economic freedom, with foreign and defence policy aligned with that of the united states and nato. the second is that of a europe that is strong economically, but also politically, and that plays its full role in the world in partnership with its allies and not under their tutelage. for this europe, the europe i want, a common foreign and defence policy is necessary. if we have the political will, this common defence will offer a tremendous potential for unity and will finally make it possible to harmonize human and material resources in all fields, including research, weapons systems and intelligence, with inestimable civil, economic and social benefits. that is why i endorse the conclusions of commissioner barnier's work in the convention, but also, and above all, the excellent report by general morillon. he dealt with this sensitive subject with the skill that is his due, but also with wit and sensitivity. we must now meet and move forward together if possible; i'm not forgetting the summit of saint-malo, which some pretend to hide. if these people still prefer the open air, let them spread the open sail. one day, i'm sure they'll come back to our shore. the rest of us, the vast majority, prefer a europe which is free, united and credible, and which also has a bearing on the fate of the world and on peace. this is the wish of a multitude of states, which expect europe to play its part. i know that this is the view of european public opinion, which has been widely expressed in recent weeks.
- thank you, mr martin. - thank you very much. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
council mr president, i do not know whether morocco has refused to allow a delegation to visit geneva. i also reserve the right to respond to the initiatives which mr solana intends to take to bring this matter back on the council's agenda. the council is certainly interested in this subject, but i am not in a position to tell you at this moment when it will be on the agenda and when it will not be.
- mr president-in-office, i would like to thank you for your replies, particularly the one concerning the self-determination of the saharawi people, which was finally raised, although i had asked a question on this subject at the last part-session. in my last written question i was very concerned that the council was not returning to this point. i am, however, somewhat concerned about the rest of your overall answer, because you say, among other things, that it is for the parties concerned to act wisely. where is the respect for international legitimacy in this position? is it not rather the european union's role to play an important role, particularly in relation to its partners? i am thinking in particular of morocco, with which we have signed an association agreement. i think it would be wise for the european union to have a frank and critical dialogue with our partner. the association agreement we signed with morocco contains a very specific article 2 on respect for human rights in western sahara. i just wanted to repeat my two specific questions. does the council intend to react to the harassment, including the dismissal of several saharawi representatives of ngos who met with an ad hoc delegation of the european parliament over a year ago? does the council intend to appeal against the sentence of 10 years' imprisonment, which was handed down in march to three saharawi men? are these not questions of respect for human rights and of article 2 of the association agreement with morocco?
- mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of the development of treatments based on the use of tissues and cells of human origin. they number in the hundreds of thousands each year. it was therefore urgent for the european commission to propose a draft directive to develop new quality and safety standards to increase public confidence in the use of these tissues and cells for use in and on the human body. i therefore wholeheartedly approve and support the approach of the european commission. unfortunately, as has already been said tonight, there are too many amendments which go in all directions, which risk distorting the original draft and thus depriving us of a regulation which is necessary and urgent. that is why, in the debate this evening, on behalf of the gue/ngl, i want to recall the three fundamental principles which lead me to oppose many of the amendments. first principle: a draft directive, the necessity of which is not denied by anyone, should not be used to extend its scope to sectors which will have to have specific regulations or which already have them. and above all, we must not use this project to open up a debate on stem cells, embryonic stem cells, surplus stem cells, research in this field or even on ivf. many of the amendments which we shall not be voting on have these objectives more or less disguised in good intentions. secondly, research and science must be governed by ethical rules to avoid irresponsible and dangerous approaches to the human race, but they must not be hindered by religious prohibitions, wherever they may come from. it's a basic rule of secularism. it is a necessary condition for ensuring progress. and here too there is no shortage of amendments to be rejected in the name of this principle. third principle: the human body should not be sold, bought or stolen. we should all at least agree on this point and agree that this principle implies, firstly, a really explicit voluntary giving of the gift by the donor and, secondly, the explicit protection of the anonymity of the donor and the recipient; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. however, this does not prevent traceability, which guarantees control of the quality of transplants. and thirdly, the free gift should not be discussed: the body is not a commodity. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that the development of these therapeutic treatments is such that a european directive is necessary. however, this development also requires, at the same time, that the european parliament, that is to say ourselves, be rigorous and respect the great principles that so many of us have in common and that we cannot accept to be called into question, even insidiously.
- mr president, we welcome many of the points in mr liese's report. we particularly support the amendments which seek to exclude from the scope of this directive tissues and cells derived from human embryos or from genetic engineering, since no european legislation defines the use of gene therapy. however, we have a problem with a compromise: voluntary and unpaid donation of human tissues and cells. we want to make sure that these donations are free. to this end, it is necessary to define precisely in this directive the legitimate and acceptable compensation, namely, for us, the reimbursement of travel expenses and income not received during the journey, the donation and rest that may be necessary, as well as refreshments and other gratuities of this type, but no more. otherwise we leave the door open to compensation, or even remuneration, for these donations, with all the foreseeable deviations in terms of quality and safety, and the risks they pose to the donors and the recipients. as has been said before, the body is not a commodity. our cells and tissues are not for sale. another fundamental principle of this directive concerns anonymity, which must be compatible with the traceability of tissues and cells. the european commission's proposal, supplemented by amendments from the committee on the environment, succeeds in taking both these principles into account. the plenary session of this parliament must not upset this delicate balance by adopting amendments to lift the anonymity of gamete donors and thus, in effect, sperm donors, or to make the tissue and cell distribution files available to the public, and i quote an amendment. the transparency argument is not a good one in this case. the need to trace the tissues and cells intended for transplantation from the donor to the recipient should not be at the expense of anonymity. this would open the door to ethical, eugenic, even racial deviations. finally, we ask the commission, which has not wished to include organs in the scope of this directive, to propose urgently a specific text for the establishment of quality and safety standards for organs. i think that this report is balanced. we must continue to work towards this, including in the next readings.
- mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr peter liese, for his excellent work of information and analysis in cooperation with all his colleagues and with experts of a very high level. cell therapy and tissue transplantation are promising avenues for treating incurable diseases that leave so many people in pain and anxiety. however, mastery of this technique is not enough to meet the expectations of the sick. this is the whole point of this proposal for a directive, the aim of which is to ensure a regulatory framework for safety and quality for human tissues and cells. as regards voluntary and unpaid donation and the anonymity of the donor, the directive cannot impose obligations on the member states under the european treaty, but only recommendations. the gift must be free. who would ever think of trading human products? saving a life is a free and selfless act. donations must also be voluntary and therefore require the written and informed consent of the living donor. it is therefore essential to inform our societies about the appropriateness of these treatments and about the responsibilities of each one in a spirit of solidarity, since it is a question of improving the health of thousands of human beings. the population in our countries is not sufficiently aware of the benefits of donating human tissues and cells. how many lives saved, how many patients cured by bone marrow transplants? the directive must be accompanied by much more detailed information. this information must be more reliable and based on genuine scientific work. for example, how many times have we heard that embryonic stem cells are going to cure incurable diseases, when to date, we have found no literature to prove it? and it would be wrong to say that banning the use of embryonic cells would prevent the saving of lives. there are other alternatives, particularly the adult stem cell technique. this observation raises the question of which cells are concerned by the proposed directive. i agree with the french government on three points. in view of article 152 (4) of the treaty, it is not for us to regulate, through this directive, the use of a particular type of cell, such as germ or embryonic cells. this is a matter for the states. similarly, ethical questions concerning embryos are a matter for national competence. finally, gametes are excluded from the scope of the directive. i shall vote in favour of this report, but i shall be very careful to respect the dignity of both the giver and the receiver.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the council, ladies and gentlemen, in its title this report proposes that we deal with the safety and quality standards of human tissues and cells. however, we know that the reference to ethical principles cannot be absent from such a text, and that is why a large part of the debate is in fact about these issues. we are committed to the idea of voluntary, anonymous and free donation and would have liked to have had a strong position on this subject, a wish which we had already expressed when we voted on the report on blood and which we will have the opportunity to reaffirm when we consider the report on organs. we therefore regret that the objectives of voluntary service, anonymity and free access can only be the subject of recommendations and not of clear commitments, and that the absence of a timetable for the achievement of these objectives does not oblige the member states to make every effort to implement projects and policies in this direction. we regret this and therefore ask the commission to make a regular assessment of the progress made in this area at member state level. we must not forget that the security and traceability of donations will be all the more guaranteed if they originate from a country of the european union subject to our legislation. and we must aim at self-sufficiency at the level of the european union. on the other hand, the trafficking of cells and tissues in certain third countries must oblige us to be extremely vigilant when importing such products, otherwise we could be considered as passive accomplices in these actions. furthermore, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union states that the human body and its parts as such are prohibited from being used for commercial gain. that is why we must vote for amendment no 77 and amendment no 1. as regards the anonymity of gamete donors and the proposal to be able to lift this anonymity, i wonder whether such an eventuality can cause fear that sperm and egg donors, already too few to meet all the demands, will turn away from their commitment. finally, i think it is important that the member states and the commission set up a centralised data bank to collect all available information on accredited establishments, treated products and biosecurity.
commission. – may i begin by thanking the committee on agriculture and rural development, and in particular its rapporteur, mrs auroi, for the positive approach adopted towards the commission proposal. this proposal consists of only one amendment added to the last item of the relevant article of ten directives on the marketing of seeds and propagating material. the aim of the proposal is simple – to create a clear legal basis for financing community comparative trials. this initiative is in line with the european parliament proposal to increase the transparency of the commission budget.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's seed industry is able to compete with the other major producers of seed. as it has stated for the past 25 years, agricultural plants such as cereals, fodder plants, oilseeds and fibre plants have been subjected to community comparative testing on the basis of the applicable legislation. in recent years, this exercise has gained in importance as a result of new legislation on the marketing of fruit, vegetable and ornamental plant propagating material, which lays down, inter alia, the rules for community comparative testing. this system of ex post control, applied to seed and propagating material marketed in the community, is recognised as a very important instrument for harmonising marketing by the member states. however, the improvement thus envisaged will be neither complete nor relevant if the comparative tests financed by the european union are limited to the varieties of seeds and plants currently certified and found in the common catalogue of the union. the commission proposal must take account of the recently adopted legislation on processed products concerning the accidental or technically unavoidable presence of genetically modified seeds in seeds of conventional varieties. moreover, it seems to me that in order to really update these guidelines, three objectives must be achieved. firstly, the proposal must cover all existing seeds, so that there is a complete panel which takes account, alongside traditional seeds, of the specificities of biodiversity and the effects of the introduction of biotechnologies through gmos. secondly, it must bring within the scope of the directive the so-called 'amateur' varieties covered by directive 98/95, which is still not taken into account by all the member states. thirdly, in the interests of democracy, it must allow parliament to be an actor from the beginning to the end of the decision-making process. in this sense, the sensitive issue of the risks of contamination of traditional seeds by gmos must be taken up in the series of directives on the marketing of seeds which we are discussing today. this question cannot be dealt with in committee, because that would exclude members from the debate and proposals on this subject. so, to return to my first point, comparative trials financed by the european union should not be limited to the listed species. preservation varieties and organic seeds should also be able to benefit from these tests. they must be tested in a framework corresponding to these agricultural techniques and therefore more funding is needed. it should be noted that these seeds may not be coated and must be free from any trace of gmos. similar tests are required for plants at risk of contamination by gmos. the present proposal for a directive provides an opportunity to settle questions concerning the proven presence of genetically modified seeds in conventional seeds. the commission has been working for some time on a directive which is to legislate on the additional conditions and requirements concerning the presence of genetically modified seeds in seed lots, planting sites, and the details of the marking of such seeds. unfortunately, the draft of the latest directive does not take sufficient account of directive 2001/18, which has since come into force, on the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms into the environment. to return to point 2, it is important that the species and varieties for conservation mentioned in directive 98/95 be defined and tested for marketing according to specific criteria, which requires an implementing regulation still awaited to date. similarly, farm seed or seed of local origin should be given special flexibility and should be the subject of specific contracts linked to the latter directive. it is my third point that is at the heart of the democratic debate. it is important, as i have tried to do, to reject the reference to precise traceability in the amended articles. it is therefore important to say, seed by seed, that if there are accidental or technically unavoidable traces of gmos in these seeds, a minimum threshold can be set below which they can nevertheless be placed on the market. the value of this threshold shall be established in accordance with article 21 and set at the lowest level possible in the light of the state of the art of scientific knowledge. appropriate measures must therefore be taken during transport and storage of traditional seeds to prove the accidental or technically unavoidable nature of possible contamination by gmos. the directive already provides for the labelling of genetically modified seeds, but it does not address the problem of the risk of traces in traditional seeds, since the rule is that these seeds should not, in principle, contain gmos. this rule is of great importance to agriculture, as the spread of contaminated seeds can have unpredictable economic consequences for both farmers and food producers. finally, the directive already provides that the community may make a financial contribution to the tests provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2. the same treatment should be possible for the specific comparative tests required for seeds and plants produced and grown for organic farming and for the use and conservation of genetic diversity in plants. for the sake of transparency, it is therefore necessary to establish a clear legal basis for any future financial contribution and it is therefore appropriate to provide for community financial measures applicable to such benchmarking which include the necessary mandatory community budgetary expenditure.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would first like to thank my colleagues and the secretariat of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and the officials of the directorate-general responsible for their very good cooperation. as the commissioner has just said, the european parliament is now required to give its opinion on the second amendment to the sweeteners directive since its adoption in 1994. the competent directorate-general therefore proposes to add two new sweeteners, sucralose and aspartame-acesulfame salt, to the positive list of sweeteners already authorised in the european union. this proposal follows the favourable opinion given in 2000 on these two sweeteners by the scientific committee for food. in the context of this second revision of the sweeteners directive, the european commission has also proposed to revise the use of a third sweetener, cyclamic acid. following a re-evaluation of the scientific committee, it proposes to reduce the thresholds for cyclamates in certain foods and beverages. studies, particularly in denmark, have shown that a child weighing 15 kg or less can very quickly reach the acceptable daily intake (adi) threshold, which can be hazardous to his health. new studies in progress in several member states seem to confirm this position. finally, the last amendment to the directorate-general for health and consumer protection proposed under this directive concerns comitology. the commission, as you have just mentioned, wishes to be given the power to decide whether a substance falls within the category of sweeteners without going through the european parliament's approval procedure. on this point of comitology, the vote in the committee on the environment showed a very clear refusal to transfer these powers to the commission alone. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. the amendment will be proposed again when the framework directive covering the sweeteners directive is revised. your rapporteur prefers to go on with this more general review. the absence of amendments on this point seems to indicate that meps also prefer to rely on this next general legislative revision. the vote in the committee on the environment was also favourable to the application for marketing authorization of the two new sweeteners, but it also allowed the adoption of an amendment calling for a re-evaluation of these two substances three years after the entry into force of the revised directive. the rapporteur is aware of the provisions of the directive, particularly as regards the monitoring system, but he prefers to remind the european commission and the member states of their obligations in relation to the monitoring of sweeteners and data collection. data collection on actual consumption in the european union and on the possible effects of the consumption of sweeteners on human health should be organised as soon as products containing these sweeteners are placed on the market, in order to allow for a timely reassessment of existing information. however, it is clear that the member states do not collect this data sufficiently and that the european commission does not always have the means to make the member states comply with the provisions contained in the directive, in particular with regard to reports to the commission. your rapporteur is all too aware of the gap between the adoption and the application of legislation and believes that parliamentary work also includes the reminder of the need to apply the law. as regards cyclamates, the vote in the committee on the environment was more forceful than the one recommended by the directorate-general for health and consumer protection. the committee on the environment proposes that the level of cyclamates be reduced to 250 mg and that this provision be extended to all beverages. this extension is necessary because beverages containing cyclamates can easily be served to grandchildren, due to the very nature of these beverages. moreover, this higher reduction is also necessary because it takes greater account of the change from a temporary adi to a lower permanent adi, adopted by the scientific committee. on this basis, the rapporteur supports amendment no 9 tabled by mrs schörling. before concluding, i would like to mention the issue of fine biscuits. two amendments are proposed. i will not hide the fact that i prefer the one proposed by my group because it is the result of collective work and because i believe that consumers should know what ingredients or products are in the food they are sold. but i am also prepared to accept amendment no 12 with an oral amendment which will be tabled tomorrow. it allows us to find a solution for this category of foodstuffs and i think that these two amendments offer an acceptable solution. i hope therefore that my colleagues' vote will enable us to propose a solution to the council on this point. after this intervention on the technical aspects of my report, i will conclude the presentation of the report by referring more broadly to the question of consumer protection, which is linked to public health issues. i am well aware that sweeteners can make life easier for people whose health requires a special diet. however, the existence of such sweeteners should not obscure the very serious public health problem of obesity. this public health issue is of course linked to that of food and nutrition and health education. it is also linked to new consumer trends and the existence on the market of products that are becoming sweeter, consumed in excess by children, and which are too often the subject of unfair advertising. i would therefore like to draw the commission's attention to this problem again, although i know that mr byrne has already said that he is very sensitive to this. before i give the floor to the other speakers, i very much hope that we will reach agreement with the council at second reading and i hope that tomorrow's vote will do so.
- thank you, my dear colleague. of course, we will do as you request, make the necessary checks.
- the next item is the report (a5-0105/2003) by mr nobilia, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on detergents (com (2002) 485 - c5-0404/2002 - 2002/0216 (cod)).
- commissioner, this proposal for a regulation, which is designed to simplify legislation, is entirely in line with the framework of sustainable development, simply because it is an environmental issue, a question which may also be a matter of public health and consumer policy. this illustrates the links between these three areas of competence. but it is also a question of the internal market, and here we see - as my colleague, karl-heinz florenz, has described it well - again all the economic consequences of such decisions. this is therefore an environmental problem, since pressure should be put on the various actors concerned to significantly reduce the use of detergents, which, when excessive, has adverse consequences on water. it is also a public health issue. in fact, are the consequences on human health of water pollution caused by the discharge of washing water containing detergents really being measured? we all want to reduce significantly the quantities used and the toxicity of the various components of detergents. however, ambitious but achievable targets should be set. and here again we are dealing with a matter of consumer policy, since it is up to the consumers, that is to say each one of us, to rationalize the use we make of detergents. this is achieved by simple measures to reduce the quantities used and to use products more efficiently. the consumer must be better informed about the use of the product and the conditions of use and must be aware of the important responsibility which he has in this area. efforts have already been made by companies in this sector, through codes of good practice or the organisation of information and public awareness campaigns. but these measures are probably still insufficient in view of the environmental issues involved and the current results. i therefore support the rapporteur, mr nobilia, who is already going further than the commission. while we are aware of the need to respect, of course, industrial secrecy - we sometimes touch on a sensitive area - we are asking for more information. we ask that the best information be given without delay to the medical staff who may themselves be called upon to answer and make decisions in this area. of course, i would remind you that medical staff are also bound by professional secrecy. it is essential to continue research in this area to find substances which are equally effective in terms of hygiene but less harmful to the environment. the aim is to find products which are more biodegradable. as regards more specifically the question of animal testing - we have already spoken sufficiently about this in this house and, among other things, when we had to decide on the cosmetics issue - the use of in vitro test methods and other alternative methods should be encouraged as far as possible. of course, the various measures must be closely linked to european legislation, including the legislation we are preparing in the field of chemicals, in order to adopt coherent policies.
- madam president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the quality of his work and on his willingness to reinstate article 174 of the treaty on environmental policy in the text of the regulation. a regulation, particularly in this area, must not be limited to ensuring the free movement of detergents in the internal market. in short, article 95 of the treaty must not take precedence over the prudent and rational use of natural resources. that would be looking at things through the lens of the prism. the new regulation has many positive effects. i will mention only two. improving labelling to ensure that consumers receive the most accurate information possible through clear and legible labels. the restriction of the use of dangerous substances called surfactants, harmful to the environment because they are very little biodegradable and dangerous in terms of public health for those who handle these detergents on a daily basis. i am thinking in particular of substances known to be carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic. the report also raises the question of the prohibition of animal testing. my position on the subject has not changed. i am in favour of their being abandoned, provided, of course, that safe alternative tests are available, particularly for metabolites. we should not repeat the mistake of the revision of the cosmetics directive, which banned them without ensuring that there were reliable alternatives. as for the derogations, member states must control only the marketing authorizations. i agree with the rapporteur's approach on this point. the commission has also taken care not to harm small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in a detergent market dominated by four or five heavyweights, for whom the new regulation will not pose any particular problem. on the other hand, smes producing detergents to be manufactured in small quantities, so-called products of the industrial and commercial sector, operate in marginal segments. these companies will have a very hard time getting up to speed.
commission. – mr president, i have listened with great interest to the debate and taken note of the different concerns expressed. perhaps i could group the questions around six groups of amendments on which i can comment one by one. firstly, a number of the amendments seek to improve the wording of the commission's text and can be accepted. i will enumerate them later. secondly, a number of amendments have a link to other legislation. as regards animal testing, the aims of the commission and the parliament are the same. it is on how such aims are to be reflected in the legislation that we differ. the commission cannot accept amendments that introduce policy statements that go beyond the scope of this proposal. many substances and preparations are already adequately regulated by the horizontal chemicals legislation. it is unnecessary and undesirable to refer to them again in the detergents legislation. thirdly, there seems to be a desire to bring forward measures on phosphates, anaerobic biodegradability and organic ingredients other than surfactants. the commission is of the opinion that these are matters where the urgency for action is not so great as to preclude the establishment of a firm scientific base for legislation. the extension of biodegradability testing to all substances and preparations at this stage would be a disproportionate and unjustifiable measure. i will come back to phosphates later. fourthly, on labelling – detergents legislation is supplementary to the horizontal chemicals legislation and must therefore be compatible with it. cosmetics and detergents need to be, and are, separately legislated for. the comparison between a washing-up liquid, which is a detergent, and a chemically similar shampoo, a cosmetic, is a tempting one to make, but it is an exceptional case. no surfactant in an industrial detergent would ever be used in a cosmetic and no cosmetic surfactant would be of any use in a laundry detergent, let alone in an industrial detergent. the purpose of the ingredients data sheet is to provide information to those who need it, e.g. doctors who treat patients suffering from allergies. manufacturers have a legitimate interest in ensuring that confidentiality is maintained. member states also have the right to request ingredient information from manufacturers for use by their poison centres. fifthly, on derogations. the introduction of a lifetime limit for manufacturers for submitting the additional data requested by the member states is a good idea. according to our legal experts the criteria for refusing derogations must be explicitly stated in the text, otherwise a decision to refuse a derogation may not be enforceable in court. a minimum data set is necessary to evaluate the request for derogation; this is what we have specified in annex iv; if, in addition, further data is required by a member state for an evaluation, it can request as much or as little as is needed. in this way we provide for a tiered approach. finally on phosphates. the commission has promised in recital 31 to take action on phosphates if there is a solid scientific basis for doing so. the commission's priority in this matter is to establish a sound scientific basis for action at community level. there is no urgent need at eu level on this matter. those member states that feel particularly vulnerable to the environmental effects of phosphates have already taken national measures. in some cases this was done many years ago and the situation in those countries has stabilised. any action at eu level needs to demonstrate clearly the added value of the present situation. we hope to have a definitive opinion from the scientific committee on toxicology, eco-toxicology and environment on phosphates in detergents before the end of this year. finally, i would like to say that the commission can accept in whole or in part amendments 2, 4, 8, 17 to 19, 22 (partly), 27 (partly), 34 to 37 – but only a part of amendment 37 – and 53. the commission can accept in principle amendments 3, 21, 31, 45, 46 and 52. the other amendments are not acceptable to the commission.
- thank you, mr liikanen. - thank you very much. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0099/2003), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending for the 25th time council directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations (substances classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction - cmr) [15703/2/2002 - c5-0013/2003 and 15703/2/2002]. the committee also welcomes the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union.
- thank you, mr bowe. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon.
- the next item is the commission statement on the crisis in the international coffee market.
- mr president, the coffee market is in a serious crisis today. the coffee workers are no longer able to live off their production. market prices, set by the four major multinationals with indecent profits, are too low to allow producers to make the profit they need to continue their activity. furthermore, coffee is produced at too high a yield, and its quality is diminished. the situation of coffee producers is not sustainable because there is no international system for stabilizing the prices of coffee and raw materials in general. we must put an end to this spiral of productivism which, in defiance of all social and environmental legislation, leads to the misery of millions of farmers in poor countries. it is a coincidence, some might say, that this crisis is occurring at the same time that stabex has disappeared from the cotonou agreement. the new system of quick cash payments is not helping the coffee-producing countries. the european union, the main importer of coffee, has a primary responsibility in resolving this crisis. the european union must launch an emergency programme, financed from the unused funds of the previous edfs, to make up for the loss of income of the populations and countries concerned. we ask the commission to produce a communication on commodities as a matter of urgency. the commission should also support the quality programme of the international coffee organisation. in the longer term, the european union must implement, for example in the framework of national and regional development plans, a set of measures to combat the volatility of coffee and other commodity prices. the european union must support the diversification of production by farmers in the south and the choice of quality agriculture, and contribute to strengthening the power of coffee producers vis-à-vis the agri-food industries. the commission must above all support the establishment of fair trade structures and facilitate market access for the products produced by them. a commission communication on this subject is becoming increasingly necessary. the question of stabilizing commodity prices, on which a majority of the least developed countries depend, must be addressed in the context of multilateral trade negotiations. the 'development cycle' agreed at doha seems particularly appropriate if the developing countries are to really benefit from world trade, which is currently being carried out rather at their expense. the customs duties on coffee products, which are still in force, must be abolished. the european union must use all its power at the wto ministerial conference in cancún to make trade with developing countries more equitable. we also welcome the french proposal to put the question of raw materials on the agenda of the next g8. the big coffee companies like nestlé, kraft, sara lee and procter and gamble cannot continue to sugarcoat themselves with impunity. they must agree to adopt ethical codes of conduct in line with the ilo and the un and to pay the raw material at its fair price, a price that reflects the social and environmental costs of exploitation and production. fair trade is not just another option for ensuring that coffee growers and workers are paid fairly, but the only sustainable global solution.
mr president, all the tendencies in this parliament are aware of the seriousness of the collapse in the price of coffee on the international market. how can we fail to see this, since these are the lowest prices in real terms recorded in a century? all the trends show the catastrophic consequences of this fall in coffee prices for the economies of a number of the world's poorest countries. but at the same time, all raise their hands in the air in a sign of impotence: and to propose that such an international conference put the question on the agenda, and to give good advice on conversion or diversification, and to offer extension courses to the farmers who are being strangled, and to wish that we would unblock a little something to help the countries most affected! four international trusts - nestlé, kraft, sara lee, and procter and gamble - control half of the world's coffee sales. which means clearly that these four trusts are setting the prices. they are the ones who, in order to make ever-increasing profits, lower the prices paid to producers. to distribute more dividends to their shareholders, they are taking the misery of dozens of poor countries and thus of tens of millions of farmers and their families. i note that the european parliament and the heads of state are powerless in the face of these four trusts and are content to talk about charity at best. and yet the joint resolution dares to advise that the market power of coffee producers should be strengthened. as if the poor peasant of rwanda, ethiopia or haiti could - while the european parliament does not dare to do so - oppose nestlé and its like! if that's not cynicism, what is? and the mere fact that the joint resolution mentions the four coffee trusts responsible for the price cuts gives the eldr group representatives the goosebumps, to the point that they ask for the paragraph citing them to be deleted. hide those trusts so i can 't see them ! there are a lot of truffles in this parliament . and what is true of coffee is also true of other commodities, starting with oil. those who bombed iraq, killing civilians, women and children, claim that they are doing so to free iraq from its dictator. but saddam hussein, the butcher of his own people, has been their hand man for years. they're the ones who armed him and pushed him to war with iran; it is they who sold him the weapons to massacre and gas the kurds and they dare to present the invading troops as liberators, when they are only carrying out the lowly work of the oil and arms trusts. to put an end to the plundering of the planet for the enrichment of a few trusts, to put an end to the extravagant inequalities between the rich in rich countries and the poor in poor countries, to prevent the poor from being murdered by starvation or massacred in wars fought to protect this situation, there is nothing but absolutely nothing else to do but to put an end to the international economic system.
commission. – mr president, i am happy to pass on the message of this debate to my colleagues, mr lamy and mr nielson. i will, however, make a few comments. you must remember that the real problem with the coffee sector is the lack of demand. the supply is essentially about the demand, and for that reason trade negotiations are not the only solution. it is very important that discussions in the world bank/ico context, or in ico itself, lead to solutions. today's problem is that the united states, which is the second biggest coffee consumer, is outside the ico. unless the us is ready to reconsider its position in the context of ico, then the measures will not have the same international impact. as far as the proposal for an action plan before the next meeting and the level of commission participation are concerned, i will pass mrs kinnock's questions to mr lamy and mr nielson. i am sure they will reply accordingly.
- thank you very much, commissioner. at the end of this debate i received six motions for resolutions tabled on the basis of rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. see minutes of the sitting. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon. (the sitting was suspended at 11.57 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
the rapporteur. - mr president, i propose that the following sentence be added to amendment no 9: 'i hope that other member states will agree to be associated with it'. this is the initiative launched by belgium, france, germany and luxembourg.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i propose that it be amended as it was on the ballot paper: 'convinced that, in view of the current inadequacy of the laws of war to the new situations in which civilian populations are the main victims of conflicts, the united nations should be entrusted with the task of defining the best application of international humanitarian rules whenever an operation ...'. i think that amendment should satisfy the socialist party.
mr president, i would like to stress that it is completely symptomatic and unrealistic that our parliament adopted the morillon report at the end of the sitting, after the vote on detergents and motor vehicles.
in writing. - we are against reproductive cloning. but we are indignant that behind certain formulations which appear to protect the individual or to denounce profit, the european parliament wants, once again, to prohibit therapeutic cloning and, more broadly, medical research on human cells and tissues. this rightly scandalizes and outrages many researchers throughout europe, who risk being banned from continuing their work and, therefore, from bringing science's help to the victims of serious diseases for which there is as yet no cure. to prevent research in this field is to ban in advance, in the name of reactionary designs, everything that could, in the future, help to treat or even cure these diseases. solidarity with these patients and with the researchers has led us to vote against this report and against all the amendments, often drafted in a jesuit-like manner, which are intended to make it worse.
in writing. - i support the initiative taken by germany to propose a directive to improve the organization of the transit of third-country nationals who are expelled from a member state when the aircraft carrying them has to stop over in another member state. in form, this text shows an intelligent use of the right of initiative which article 67 of the ec treaty provisionally reserves to the member states in this area. in theory, this right should be abolished on 1 may 2004 and the commission's monopoly of initiative should be restored in full. we hope that the states will be able to put a stop to this disastrous process at the next intergovernmental conference. unfortunately, the left took the opportunity to push through amendments limiting the right of expulsion, even including a minority opinion calling for "a total stop to expulsions (to countries of origin)... and a right of permanent residence for all in europe". once again we see a spirit which is subtly influencing many european proposals, such as the text on family reunification which the european parliament adopted yesterday. we were therefore obliged to vote against the kirkhope report which, by a strange coincidence, was finally rejected.
in writing. - the french government has just relaunched, in liaison with the german government, the deportation of immigrants from outside the community by charter. yet the scandalous conditions of these deportations, which have led to deaths during the journey, have been exposed, not to mention the imprisonment in the destination countries. it is in this context that the european parliament is being asked to table a draft council directive aimed at harmonising and regulating assistance in the context of removal with or without escort at transit airports in the european union. the report which has been presented to us to validate this codification of expulsions is particularly hypocritical. he does not say a word about the fact that collective expulsions are prohibited by the european convention on human rights and the charter of fundamental rights, thus crediting the national police services with a good consideration of the individual rights of immigrants. it reiterates that the sovereign rights of the member states - in particular as regards the application of enforcement measures to unruly illegally staying third-country nationals - are not affected. for all these reasons, we voted against this resolution and will continue to be involved with all those who want to put an end to these expulsions.
in writing. - the examination of this text on comparative testing and marketing of seeds should be an opportunity to recall some guidelines concerning seeds. every effort should be made to preserve the biodiversity of cultivated plants. left to free competition alone, genetic selection tends to be concentrated in the hands of a few companies, the number of varieties placed on the market is reduced and local varieties disappear. seed companies naturally tend to favour captive, hybrid or genetically modified varieties, which enable them to ensure the profitability of their crops. it is therefore up to the member states to maintain the public service dimension in plant breeding, to ensure the sustainability of local endangered varieties and to allow seed propagation on the farm. finally, the greatest caution should be exercised in the use of plant protection products to coat seeds, a technique which can be harmful to the environment and wildlife, particularly in the case of seeds coated with potent systemic insecticides, which have a disastrous effect on pollinating insects, especially domestic bees.
in writing. - the report before us today is modern and libertarian. the report also calls for the adoption of a new law on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. what is desired is a free market in drugs, their liberalization and the decriminalization of drug use offences. how can we not be shocked and horrified by such talk? how can we fail to realise that the damage caused by the use of drugs and other psychotropic substances is increasing in terms of crime, trafficking and death? how can we not accept that drug use increases exponentially with tolerance? in this respect, i would like to congratulate my finnish colleague, mrs marjo matikainen-kallström, who has courageously advocated a zero tolerance policy on drugs. of course, that is the only responsible attitude to take on this matter. let us not touch on the international conventions which lay down the rules and principles of the fight against drugs. the policy to combat drug trafficking and drug use must remain national. and it is not for europe to decide on the basis of scientific studies, which are only valid until further studies challenge them, that it is good to smoke cannabis.
in writing. - the purpose of this report is to break the ice in favour of a better information and communication strategy for the european union. why not ? - why not ? but if the aim, as stated in one of the paragraphs, is to convince all europeans of the european union's virtues in terms of 'security, solidarity, equal opportunities and cohesion', then the party is wrong. no communication strategy can make us forget, for example, that one in eight employees in the union is condemned to unemployment and many to poverty! if the european union were to pursue a policy against collective redundancies, by forcing employers to ensure the maintenance of jobs through their current and past profits, and if unemployment were to fall as a result, a communication strategy would not be necessary: word of mouth would suffice!
in writing. - the vote on a report proposing measures to improve the information of european citizens on the functioning of the european union should in principle be taken for granted. that is not the case with the text presented. the whole of this is based on concern about the eu's lack of popularity, with increasing abstention in the european elections. it mainly criticises the lack of information and the approaches which tend to make the union appear as a permanent arena of confrontation between national interests. as solutions, it proposes communication campaigns to highlight the common european values and the practical benefits of eu membership in everyday life. in our view, the eu's unpopularity is based on the fact that its current priorities are not democracy or solidarity, but the liberalisation of trade, the challenge to public services and the creation of a police fortress europe. the question is not therefore how to organise better institutional propaganda which is out of touch with reality, but how to find ways of presenting the debate on the europe of tomorrow clearly to the citizens and to enable them to make their voices heard at all levels. for this reason we did not vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i was simply shocked to read this report. this document clearly crosses the line between information and disinformation, communication and propaganda. yes, it is propaganda to say, for example, that the european union's communication strategy must be supported by opinion formers, that information must be targeted to different groups of the population by means of mobilizing means, such as sport, and that messages must be formulated in such a way as to allow them to be easily incorporated into educational systems. the quasi-scientific approach, the recruitment of opinion formers to serve the cause, the instrumentalisation of all available resources, the subtle desire to manipulate the weakest minds through the use of educational systems: all this is totalitarian propaganda. this assembly dishonors itself by adopting a report which calls on the european institutions to squander public money in order to satisfy the lust for power of an oligarchy which wishes to subject reality to its own chimeras (citizenship, conscience, european constitution). however, despite the lavishness of the means at the disposal of the european machine, i want to believe that the peoples will not be fooled by this subliminal federalism.
in writing. - the morillon report proposes a new european security and defence architecture of a unitary and centralised type, which seems both unrealistic and outdated. the report is in fact, from the outset, in the community framework. no development is devoted to what should be the central principle, the freedom of participation of countries and the variable geometry of associations. there is only a reference to 'constructive abstention', a slight flexibility introduced by the treaty of amsterdam to preserve the general centralised framework. on the other hand, the need to develop the powers of the existing european institutions and the inclusion of the costs in the community budget is strongly emphasized (paragraphs 40, 56 and 57 of the resolution). the iraq crisis showed how outdated this montage was. but in any case, this report was not realistic, because it affirmed both the competence of national parliaments in the use of national forces and that of the european parliament in the approval of operations. all of this is contradictory. you have to choose. the only solution for us is the superior legitimacy of the nations and the primary responsibility of their parliaments. everything else has to follow.
in writing. - to advocate a common european army, as the report does, is not without its comicness, at a time when the british army is leading the american army into a dirty war in iraq while the other armies, by political choice or incapacity, say they are opposed to the war. what would a unified european army have done? but behind the tragicomic is the idea that to the divergent national militarisms must be added a supra-european militarism. we reject both because these militarisms are nothing but the periodic bloodshed, the permanent taxation of the people, the wars waged for the benefit of a few big trusts. let no one object to the need to defend the fatherland at the national and continental levels! the french army, for example, has never had to defend the country since 1945. but it has fought a multitude of colonial wars and has been involved in robbery wars around the globe. we therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - the current division between member states on crucial foreign policy issues is regrettable, since it does not allow the union to become a credible actor on the international scene. if the union is to become such an actor, it is essential that it adopt a single line and speak with one voice. if the european union is to defend its objectives and values on the international scene and contribute to peace, freedom and stability in the world, in accordance with the principles of the united nations and international law, it is urgent that it develops a genuine esdp, an integral part of the cfsp. this esdp must be based on the principle of security, security shared by europe and the rest of the world, sustainable security based on equality, justice and reciprocity, security based on respect for human rights, democratic control and international law. a credible actor on the international scene but also a free partner of the united states within the atlantic alliance: that is the key message of this report, and that is why i will support it.
in writing. - the report by general morillon sets out the ambitions of a european union security and defence policy. after a few usual precautions, such as the need to base this policy on equality, justice, reciprocity, human rights, democratic control and international law, and to contribute to freedom, peace, etc., the report reveals its concrete bases, with the police vision of the world that underlies it: instability that would be produced by terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the trafficking of weapons, drugs and human beings ... as well as illegal immigration, in short by general human evil, and not by social oppression and north-south inequalities. the solutions proposed are therefore to strengthen the military capabilities available in the union, which require the development of a european defence culture as quickly as possible. it is even hoped that by 2009 the european military force will be able to conduct, within the european geographical framework, an operation of the level and intensity of the kosovo conflict. what a peaceful future ! for these reasons we tabled an amendment calling for the rejection of war as an instrument for settling international disputes. in view of its rejection, we voted against the morillon report.
in writing. - it will be remembered that we have debated at length a report on european security, the content of which is essentially totally outdated, and that we have forbidden ourselves, by a large majority, to discuss the war in iraq at a time when its outcome is in play and when its consequences concern our security in the first place. the parliament's silence on the tripartite summit france-germany-russia, which begins tomorrow in st petersburg with the secretary-general of the united nations, will also be noted. is it because it is an intergovernmental initiative, and therefore ideologically incorrect? however, if parliament really cared, as it claims, to see europe exerting its own substantial diplomatic influence in the post-war period, it should attach more importance to the st petersburg summit than to the next european council. the doubling of financial aid to turkey, probably intended to thank ankara for its refusal to lift the occupation of cyprus by its troops, is also noteworthy. it is not necessary to link aid to accession, as parliament has done, but to a constructive attitude on the part of turkey to achieve the reunification of cyprus before nicosia joins the union. if we had done that, we would have worked concretely for the security of europe.
- mr president, i simply wanted to say that there will be a memorial service in honour of mr pierre pradier in the green group's chamber at 3 p.m. tomorrow.
- mr president, regarding tuesday's agenda, i would like to make a request, on behalf of many of the members present here but also of aquitaine, brittany and the spanish coasts, concerning the attitude of fipol and the frankly ridiculous compensation proposed to us for the prestige tragedy. would it be possible to ask for the commission's opinion and position during the discussion of the manders report, which will take place on tuesday morning at 10 a.m.?
- mr president, i would like to remind the house that the conference of presidents unanimously decided to put mr schmid's report on the employment guidelines on the agenda for thursday morning, provided, of course, that it is adopted by the committee concerned this evening.
- mr president, i thank you for giving me the floor briefly on the announcement you made concerning the mandate of mr jean-marie le pen, who has been a member of this house for almost twenty years. i must say that i regret the decision you have taken, mr president, for several reasons. the first is that the decision you have cited is not final - you have mentioned that - it is subject to appeal, it was appealed last friday and, therefore, i think that perhaps the parliament could have disregarded immediately a decision of the court of first instance which is not final. secondly, it is clear from the very terms you have used, mr president, that jean-marie le pen, which no one disputes, was a member of parliament until 10 april last, in particular by virtue of an order of the president of the court of first instance of the european communities. in order to do so, it is necessary to revive a dismissal pronounced by the french executive, a dismissal based on an ineligibility which was purged two and a half years ago. since 24 november 2000, mr le pen has regained the fullness of his civil rights, as was also proved by his candidacy in the french presidential elections, which had raised no objections. i therefore think that parliament should have been, in this judicial procedure, not opposed to jean-marie le pen but on his side, whatever else one may think of his political positions, because tomorrow any member of parliament may be the object of persecution by the executive and may be forced to resign by a simple government decision. it seems to me surprising that these decisions cannot be subject to at least a minimum of appraisal by our parliament. for these reasons, mr president, and for others which are related to the violation of french domestic law, in particular the french penal code, the application of older texts, in particular the 1977 law which, in my opinion, is totally inapplicable in this case, since it was related to a time when members of the european parliament were not elected by direct universal suffrage, but were delegates of the parliaments of the member states, i think that this complex issue should have been and still should be submitted to the legal affairs committee, which is the only committee today with competence in the field of verification of credentials, under rule 7 of our rules of procedure.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have already had the opportunity to speak on this important subject at first reading and i am therefore pleased to be able to speak again this evening. first of all, i would like to personally thank my colleague and friend eryl mcnally for the quality of her report and for the way in which she managed to conduct the negotiations with the council. i've known her for a long time and i wanted to pay this tribute to her for her hard work, even though i sometimes, if not often, disagree with the liberal orientations of some of her friends. on an equally personal note, i would like to say to mrs de palacio that, although she has never answered my question on what i consider to be a contradiction between free competition to bring down prices and the unquestioned need to save energy, i appreciate her work as energy commissioner, her undeniable skills and her ability to listen. to come back to the substance, on behalf of my group, i would like to remind you that the 'intelligent energy for europe' programme, which runs from 2003 to 2006, replaces a programme which expired on 31 december last, which is why it is urgent to reach agreement and find the best possible compromise. it is not surprising that the most heated discussions were on the budgetary issue. i would like to say again that i regret that too often at european level, in many areas, we do not know how to provide ourselves with the financial means to match our ambitions. i have said this time and again in this house and elsewhere. in this case, this is all the more regrettable as a mid-term report on the existing programme showed that the existing specific programmes suffered from a serious lack of resources. finally, after several trilogue meetings, the council and parliament managed to reach a compromise on the sum of €200 million, whereas the council was firmly insisting on €190 million. it's too little, even if it's better than nothing. as mentioned, this amount will be divided between four specific programmes: energy efficiency, promotion of renewable energy sources, energy aspect of transport, promotion of renewable energy and energy efficiency in developing countries. i stress the importance of this and i approve of these guidelines. the council also accepted most of parliament's amendments on the substance: integration of the candidate countries, dissemination of and access to programmes and the establishment of transparent criteria for the selection of participants. we welcome that. the council, however, did not accept the creation of a european agency for smart energy. i regret this, as does the itre committee. i think it would have helped us. the council also did not accept the setting up of a task force within the commission to ensure coordination between the different areas, but mrs de palacio gave us some reassurance on this point. i will conclude by stressing once again that energy is not a commodity like any other. it involves heavy investments and therefore time. it has broad public service aspects which must be fiercely defended in the interests of all citizens in every sense of the word. and for the future, we need to save, diversify, secure, consider costs and benefits, not just short-term accounting costs and benefits. we have to look far ahead. the demand will increase and fossil fuels will decrease. fission is a matter of public opinion, and therefore renewable energy and energy conservation must be promoted. finally, mr president, i would like to conclude by saying that we must implement what i personally consider to be the possible energy of tomorrow, fusion, and thus launch the iter programme very quickly, very quickly, mr president.
commission. - mr president, i thank the rapporteur and all the speakers for their words and their approaches. i would point out that of the 31 amendments tabled by parliament, 20 can be accepted, in whole or in part, because they involve improvements or clarifications of the text, and in particular those relating to the provision of insurance proof or those relating to overflight and the one relating, for example, to aircraft from third countries. of the 20 that can be accepted, 15 are literally accepted and 5 with appropriate modifications. ladies and gentlemen, i must point out, however, that there are 10 that i cannot accept for the reasons i shall set out below. for example, amendment no 9 on state guarantees, because it would not be in line with our approach to state aid and would clearly distort competition, or amendment no 12 on the validity of insurance, which is not legally viable because insurance could be cancelled during a flight after events such as 9/11 and therefore its application would be impossible to guarantee. amendments nos 13 and 15 on the definition of short-term leases because they fall within the scope of other rules which are not currently being reviewed. amendment no 18, which describes in detail the doubts about the effectiveness of the cover because it is too prescriptive. amendment no 25, which extends the definition of insurer, because it would unduly discriminate against third country insurers and would infringe the community's international obligations in financial services. amendments nos 26 and 28, which extend the application of civil and passenger liability to airline operators, because they could raise difficulties of legal interpretation and, in a matter of this nature, as mr ortuondo has very well pointed out, it is essential that we have the greatest possible clarity, in order to avoid contradictory interpretations. amendment no 27, because it introduces maximum bands instead of minimum insurance amounts. amendment no 29, calling on the commission to harmonize legislation on insurance at airports, because the need for compulsory insurance requirements covering third party damage has not been approved. and amendment no 30 cannot be accepted because the person responsible is often not the person subject to compulsory insurance. i would point out that we are talking about thresholds which are lower than the market currently sets and that since 9 september 2001 insurance costs have been falling steadily, although it is true - and mr nicholson was right about that - that the problem is posed by small companies, with whom there is a case-by-case negotiation. mr vermeer was talking about the open skies issue. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. the honourable member is well aware that the commission is trying to secure a negotiating mandate with the united states and the other third countries, which would allow both the necessary flexibility for countries to negotiate new agreements with third countries, which are not always of community interest as a whole, which only affect or interest certain specific countries for special reasons, but at the same time maintain the community as the responsible authority and ultimate bargaining power. i would like to say to the honourable members that the united states, for example, has clearly shown its willingness to start these negotiations in the coming months, if we had a mandate from the commission to do so. i would also point out, as regards flights, that the 1944 chicago convention and the 1994 transit agreement, in article 5 thereof, explicitly allow conditions to be imposed for overflights, not only as regards the payment of certain types of cargo, but also as regards the obligation to take out certain types of insurance. these international agreements therefore clearly allow for the coverage of overflights. as regards the question of the impact study - and i conclude with this, mr president - we have commissioned an impact study on third countries. we're working on it right now. as far as european companies are concerned, we believe that we already have the necessary experience and knowledge. i hope that in the course of the next few debates we will be able to come closer to the honourable members and achieve a result which clarifies and sets the right level of guarantees for everyone and which restores and increases confidence in this type of transport, which is what we all want.
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the agenda calls for the commission statement on the ministerial meeting of the european space agency on 27 may 2003.
- mr president, i would like to thank mrs de palacio for her speech on monday evening at the beginning of the parliament's session on a topic which is topical, since in reality our speech is not so much addressed to commissioner busquin or to herself, but to the ministerial meeting of the european space agency, which is due to take place in a few days' time, and we are expecting a lot of it. i think it should be said that this is a topical matter, not a matter intended to replace the reports and the debate on the green paper or the debate on galileo. we simply realised at various meetings that european space was going through a very critical moment - perhaps more critical than we are aware - because of the difficulties of arianespace: not only the problem of the launchers, but also the whole satellite industry. the question now is therefore the accumulated skills and know-how, which are extremely valuable at a time when new space powers are emerging all over the world, at a time when it is becoming clear that the market studies carried out in the 1990s are no longer fully realised, particularly in the field of satellite constellations. the question is therefore what europe is doing, given that this is a european matter. the french are certainly sensitive, since they started the conquest of space a few years ago. but today, an isolated country is no longer able to cope with the maintenance of its space capacity in the world. so it is not a frenchman who is speaking to you, madam commissioner, but a european who wants people to think of airbus, of what this great achievement was. let us say this to those who tend to tell us that if the european space industry is not able to cope, they will buy elsewhere. we could have bought planes elsewhere. but unfortunately, it is european skills, technology and know-how and above all civilian applications in all fields, including medicine, information technology and aeronautics, that would be compromised. it is therefore a strategic issue, not only in the military sense but also, simply, in the sense of what europe holds most precious, namely its technological advancement. we hope that you will convey to the member states, which are also members of esae, our concern that an emergency restructuring plan for the launcher industry should be put in place, and our concern that the galileo crisis should finally be resolved. you have done your duty in this matter very largely. for the first time, europe is sending a strong signal, it is the bearer of a space programme and we know that programmes are essential, but we see that at esa, one crisis after another. what we think is very important, madam commissioner, is that, on the one hand, we should be able to overcome this crisis at the next asean ministerial meeting and, on the other hand, if we are not able to do so, we ask that the commission firmly take over. i know that it is difficult, and i know that germany and france in particular are not necessarily comfortable with the appointment of the executive director. i wish we didn't have junior wars in this area. but what is required of you is that the commission should make up for the shortcomings of esae, if there are any. finally, we would like to send a message to the convention on the future of the union that space should be a shared competence in the future, because once again, we believe this is in keeping with the strategic nature of space.
- mr president, we are indeed facing a very special situation and i welcome the fact that there is this debate tonight even though, unfortunately, there are not many of us in the chamber. faced with the international competition that has developed in the field of launchers and with major funding difficulties, the european space industry is facing a very serious crisis, even unprecedented, and there is therefore an urgent need to overcome this situation that puts the very sustainability of arianespace in question and to provide solutions. i would like to emphasise that access to space is not only an industrial priority, it is also a necessity for european identity and autonomy in a field of high competence. space is research, it's civil applications, very important. space is often known as the conquest of space, but i would say that space, for me, is also and largely what is called useful space: telecommunications, observation satellites, medicine, disaster prevention. it is an area of excellence, expertise and also an important source of skilled jobs, since space represents 35 000 direct jobs in europe, with a significant research sector. i would like to stress, as you have understood, the need for space to serve primarily peaceful purposes. i am pleased, as are other colleagues, that the development of the union's space policy has been given priority status in the sixth community framework programme for research and development. i also welcome the fact that the future of the european space agency is on the agenda for our session. the european space agency is an effective intergovernmental coordination body that has contributed to the development of space applications in europe and worldwide. so i think that the development of a genuine space policy for the union, with a more assertive commitment to the union's competences in this area, is indeed necessary. i believe that this is not inconsistent with the agency's continued autonomous capacity. the union must therefore make a real effort to ensure that the agency continues to develop as a coordinator and promoter of programmes. for the ambition of an autonomous european policy - i join my colleagues - there is real urgency in unblocking the galileo dossier and finally ensuring - but we keep saying it - that the member states overcome their differences to decide on this programme and move towards its rapid implementation with the relaunch of the european launcher. but i would like, madam commissioner - i do not know if this is possible - for the commission to carry out a study on the distortions of competition between ariane and launchers from other countries on the civilian commercial market. while i share the concern and the desire to make space a european ambition and to look at the necessary restructuring of the sector, i still have some questions about the industrial restructuring under way, since i come from the toulouse pole. under what conditions and for what purposes are they being implemented? i do not think that the space sector in europe is suffering from a multiplication of skills, quite the contrary. to think so would be to take a short-term view as opposed to an ambitious long-term view. i think that not losing but continuing to develop the technological and human skills of the sector is a real challenge for europe if it wants, as it says, to have an autonomous and competitive competence in this field and i too think it is important to send a strong signal to the next council of ministers.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am responsible for drawing up, on behalf of the committee responsible, the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, the report on the state of play of the galileo programme and the integration of the egnos programme into the galileo programme. the first exchange of views at the level of the committee responsible, the itre committee, will take place on 21 may and the report will be discussed in november in plenary. in view of the problems you have highlighted, commissioner, may i, on behalf of the itre committee and the green group, recall the timetable for the implementation of galileo: in autumn 2002, the galileo joint undertaking started its operation; end of 2002, commission report to the council on the integration of egnos in galileo and the concession model; council decision of 25 december 2002 on the services offered by galileo and the frequency plan for the services; the european commission has also launched a new initiative to promote the use of radio spectrum in the telecommunications sector. the commission's proposal to the council on the establishment of the future security body was adopted in june 2003. autumn 2003 commission report to the council on the pre-selection of the future concessionaire; in late 2004, the first experimental satellite was launched. if we are to meet this timetable, it is now urgent to resolve the situation that has developed within esae, where states are divided over the importance of each in the programme. it is understandable that the states concerned should intervene, but this is rather unpleasant, since the risk of a 1% or 2% participation is to delay considerably the implementation of this project which has a truly european dimension. we are realizing the need for technology that is on par with gps and even better. and, as we saw with commissioner busquin, a lot of research has been done to have extraordinary technology, technology that will be even better than gps. it will have applications for the environment which will also be fundamental. we, the greens, are committed to the transparency of the project and do not want it to be carried out in haste, because of possible delays. we are very concerned to have civilian applications and not military applications of this galileo project. we therefore believe that it should be implemented quickly. more than 200 parliamentarians signed a motion in april to ensure that there is no delay, to speed up the project. i thank you, commissioner, for doing your utmost to move in this direction and to ensure that the situation is resolved as quickly as possible.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot discuss in a few minutes all the problems affecting european space policy. i would like to limit myself today to the problems connected with the galileo programme. more than a year has passed since the european satellite navigation programme was adopted by the transport council in march 2002, and to date no agreement has been reached within the european space agency to finance the continuation of the programme. galileo came into existence after strong opposition from some countries. today, it cannot be implemented, firstly because of the strong competition between those who wanted to be at the head of the project and, secondly, for reasons of high funding. the european space industry, as we have all said, is currently going through a major crisis. it employs 30,000 highly qualified staff in europe and we must do everything we can to preserve the extraordinary technological and human potential of this industry. galileo is one of the programmes that can make the most significant contribution to this and, moreover, it will give the european union strategic independence. the european parliament insisted that the companies should contribute financially to the joint undertaking. the companies have mobilized and we must now support the rapid implementation of this project. it's about our credibility. another key element is the urgent need to implement the programme. as you said, commissioner, if we do not send a signal in time, we will not be able to use the frequencies reserved for galileo and the associated functionalities. the european space agency must take a decision quickly and this concern is shared by many of us, european and national parliamentarians, who launched and disseminated the 'galileo: time to act!' appeal to the heads of state and government of the member states. ladies and gentlemen, the galileo programme shows us the limits of the european space policy as it currently exists, and we must draw lessons from it for the reflection that will lead to the adoption, by the end of the year, of a white paper on this subject. the galileo programme must be a success and send a positive signal from europe to support an ambitious space policy. our assembly must give its full support to the joint venture so that it can be set up quickly, and the european commission, through you, madam commissioner, shares the concern of our intergroup on 'sky and space' in the european parliament. in addition, president prodi informed the members of this intergroup, via its president, gilles savary, in a letter of 30 april last, of the possibility that the commission was considering setting up the joint venture unilaterally, if an asem agreement did not come into effect in the next few days. we therefore call on all member states to put an end to their differences on the funding of the programme at the european space agency meeting on 27 may so that we can finally move forward.
the commission (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully share the strategic importance of the space sector for europe. it is the only technology capable of bringing about new global standards which will really enable european industry to gain access to new markets and new technological developments. the new technology has, to a large extent, one of its frontiers in the space sector. europe cannot therefore remain on the sidelines of this very important sector. a new policy is needed to integrate all european actions. a moment ago mrs mcnally spoke of the importance and the european added value of the space sector. and in this connection i have already raised the question of including space policy in the sphere of community competence in the context of the review currently under way of the convention, the treaties and, therefore, the drafting of a future constitutional treaty. secondly, space for community policies, a key objective in the white paper, which must therefore be included in applications such as agriculture, fisheries, education and the environment, to which several speakers have referred. the european space agency can act as a facilitator of programmes if it is consistent with the logic that space is strategic at this time; and the agency can be consistent with a logic that overcomes the current limitations of the intergovernmental approach. the commission is preparing a report on the launcher sector for september, a strategic sector which is undoubtedly one of the most difficult at the moment. finally, i would like to refer to the galileo programme, which, like all these other issues - and i repeat it again - is the responsibility of my colleague mr busquin, who is doing a magnificent job together with the whole team of the directorate-general for research and technological development. ladies and gentlemen, since i took over my responsibilities as commissioner, i have devoted all my efforts to galileo, and not only the effort, but the political impetus even, pledging my own position and all my will. it was a project that was far from being a reality when i came here. a project of this magnitude had two officials dedicated to the whole project (one of them is here today - no longer in the directorate-general for transport - and i want to congratulate mr tytgat on his willingness, because in the end, we often build europe thanks to specific people who have the courage and the courage to go ahead and push their ideas), a project that was far from mature. i have given this project a personal impetus from the very beginning of my performance here. and i'll tell you one thing: he's been paralyzed for over a year. the agreement at community level was reached over a year ago during the spanish presidency, which also devoted a great deal of effort to this project. i would like to say to the honourable members that the community aspect has worked, albeit more slowly than i would have liked. what has failed is the intergovernmental aspect which is manifested through the european space agency. sometimes, for a year, two countries have blocked the decision of the european space agency. and for the last month, as i understand it, there are two others who are causing problems - and especially one that i know very well. i have always called on all of them to resolve these differences as soon as possible and not to block the project. i have heard the ministers in the council of ministers argue that the project could not be carried out through an agency, as was proposed at the outset, because we wanted a purely commercial project, with commercial criteria and with purely economic approaches, economic efficiency, and now i cannot understand that the markets in the european space agency are about whether the headquarters is in this country or whether the presidency is of this or that nationality. that is absolutely contradictory to what i have heard, not from those ministers but from their colleagues in transport, in a series of councils where we have had sometimes very hard debates. in my area of responsibility, i have proposed to the monitoring committee, where all the states are, the name of a director for the joint venture, to start the joint venture with community funds only, without the funds of the european space agency. it is the member states which have blocked my proposal in this area. so, ladies and gentlemen, let me be very clear: at community level the problems are solved. it is in the field of the european space agency that the problems are to be solved and where a few member states - sometimes one, sometimes the other, it does not matter - are blocking a project absolutely strategic for the development not only of the space sector but of the technological development of europe, so that it does not get off the hook in a number of essential and key applications. and i want to express my deep concern about the repeated delays - i said this a year and a half ago, in december 2001 - in the project at the level of the council of ministers, which jeopardizes the real possibility of it, especially when it is said that we want the whole system to operate according to strict market rules. you have to choose. if we want pure and hard market rules, it makes no sense that for more than a year we have been wasting time in the european space agency arguing whether the headquarters is in this or that country, in this or that city, whether the president of galileo industries is a fulani or a mengan, with the identity card or the nationality or passport of this or that country of the european union. what you have to look for is the best. the point is to find the most effective place and venue. and that's what you're looking for. so, ladies and gentlemen, i can only agree with what you have just said, but i want to say that there are limits here, and the limits are that there is a part which is intergovernmental and which, unfortunately, is blocked. mr president, of course i will continue to make every effort, to put all the pressure i can on myself to get this project going, in which, as all the honourable members know, i have invested a great deal for many years now and which i believe is absolutely key to european technological development.
- thank you very much, commissioner, for your frank comments, which i assure you were appreciated.
- thank you for that clarification. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. (the sitting was suspended at 9 p.m.) the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97).
- mr president, the proposal for a directive on environmental liability which has been presented to us today is very disappointing. we welcome european harmonisation in the field of environmental damage, which is often transnational, but it would still require serious progress. however, this text is characterised by an impressive number of shortcomings, exemptions, exclusions and limitations of liability, which would make the new regulation a deception and often even a source of confusion and a reduction in the protection of the citizen, unless the taxpayer is called upon to fill in the gaps. consider two examples. first example: article 3 states that the directive does not apply to the transport of dangerous substances by sea, to damage caused by oil pollution and to damage caused by nuclear power. the reason is that there are already international conventions governing civil liability in all these areas. but these conventions are limited, insufficiently protective or totally inadequate, as we see these days with the ridiculous compensation granted by fipol after the prestige disaster. we therefore ask that this directive not run away from the problem, but that it address it and provide real protection. the second example is gmos. the commission promised us, when we were discussing the directive on the voluntary release of gmos, that the questions of liability and insurance would be dealt with in the general directive on environmental liability, the one we are discussing today. but we were deceived. theoretically, gmos are well covered by this text, but they immediately stand out thanks to article 9, which exempts activities which benefit from an administrative authorisation, of which gmos would be part, precisely because of the directive on intentional release. all this is intolerable, especially at a time when the commission is trying to shift the burden of the problem of the coexistence of the gmo and non-gmo crops it wants to allow onto the member states. in these circumstances, we ask the council not to lift the moratorium until the questions of liability and assurance regarding gmos are clearly resolved for the best protection of the citizen and the environment.
- mr president, to legislate on environmental liability is to open pandora's box, since environmental damage is poorly defined by the directive and its scope of application is vague, particularly in the area of biodiversity, which is already governed by the international conventions of berne and bonn. the repair should be limited to natura 2000 areas and exclude non-profit-making activities such as leisure, which the directive equates with professional activities. the directive does not cover the transport of hydrocarbons or gmos. the compensation must be based on objective and quantifiable criteria, on the nature of the damage and its impact, on the state of the environment at the level of the damage, on local circumstances. the polluter pays principle must be effectively applied and not replaced by the taxpayer pays principle. the responsibility must include gmos, especially as the us is forcing the lifting of the moratorium on imports in the context of the wto negotiations. more generally, what is the point of making the system of liability community-wide, when the danish initiative of the council on the criminalisation of environmental crime falls within the scope of judicial cooperation? this is particularly so since other legal instruments could be used, such as the lugano convention.
- mr president, madam commissioner, we have been waiting for a long time to have an environmental liability regime, a regime that is sufficiently severe but objective and feasible, so that it protects the environment without harming the economy, whether industrial or agricultural. it is also necessary that the application of such liability should avoid any distortion of competition. but i must say that this text seems to me disappointing and rather weak and does not fully meet our expectations. the polluter pays principle is a fundamental principle, but it must be accompanied by financial guarantees. in this text we must not talk about the transport of hydrocarbons by sea, and i regret that. when we see the example of fipol in the sad case of the prestige, when we see the permanent discharges at sea, we think that there is much to be done to make certain professions responsible. and here, our anger is proportional to the extent of the damage to biodiversity. the proposals in this area are not enough and i would also like the commissioner to tell us a little bit about what she thinks of the fipol decision. finally, liability must be proportionate to the fault admitted. we must avoid any joint responsibility which would make others share the responsibility. the taxpayer is not obliged to bear the financial burden of damage caused by others. in conclusion, i do not think that reparations are the only solution. we need more prevention. i welcome the efforts that can be made by companies in this direction through the voluntary agreements which we shall discuss shortly, but i insist that an effective system of financial guarantees be put in place. that's what i wanted to tell you. i am convinced that in conclusion we will have to discuss this environmental liability regime again.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on environmental liability was the missing link in an effective environmental policy. with a strong and courageous directive, we could reduce pollution and environmental damage and make polluters pay. will she rise to the challenge? after 20 years of preparation, the text is disappointing, but the amendments by the greens and the left can make it much better. how can we protect the environment by excluding nuclear energy and gmos? the aim of protecting and restoring biodiversity with a directive which is responsible for 13% of the territory is unacceptable. but the worst thing is the hypocrisy of some member states on this question of environmental responsibility. the french conservatives, who are disgusted by the amount of fipol reimbursements, would be well advised to ask mr chirac, who is draped in an environmental charter, to change the position of his government, which campaigns for exemptions to permits and against compulsory insurance. and this is totally contradictory to a real environmental policy. because with the licenses and no insurance, we'll have to wait for dozens of prestige and erika. we reject that. that is why we are asking everyone to vote for our amendments.
commission. – mr president, i should like to thank members for all those valuable speeches and constructive ideas on how to improve this proposal. let me begin by commenting on two things: the polluter-pays principle and the scope. several members referred to the long history of this proposal; the debate reflected the different views and the need to find a balanced approach in the end. i also understand that many members want to be more ambitious: to overload this proposal with a lot more. i can understand that, but it is important to see it as a step-by-step approach, because we have a practical view on this. we do not want to overload it with aspects that we are negotiating at the same time in international fora. i am sure that there would be more chance of losing the whole proposal if we were to try to burden it with these aspects. the polluter-pays principle is the guiding principle behind this whole proposal, and that is why it is quoted in the first article. the idea behind it is to create responsibility and, via that, to achieve prevention. it gives that very clear signal. we also touch upon the fact that in many cases it is not possible to find the polluter, or to make the polluter pay. in that case, there has to be remediation. we want to see an insurance system. however, we believe that market forces should be allowed to create that kind of system. we do not want to impose it today in a situation where it is not clear that we would achieve the desired effect. in reply to miss breyer's point: all accidents are covered. i do not know what members' presumptions are about the targets for this legislation, but our presumptions are very much based on the facts that there are too many accidents and too many cases of negligence, and also that short-sighted greed is behind much of the pollution. this is why we have designed the proposal this way. therefore, all accidents are covered and we have also covered cases of negligence; this will create a polluter-pays principle and, in the end, pave the way for prevention. what about the scope? it was very important for us to ensure that we have legal clarity if we want to introduce a new system covering biodiversity, because traditional damage – economic damage or damage to people – is already well covered by the legislation in all member states. we do not have to take over that at community level, but we want to harmonise the rules for covering damage to biodiversity. that was the starting-point. if we want to do this and have a credible system, we need legal clarity and a system which is manageable and which can be applied. if the definition is too wide – as it is proposed, it would cover, in some cases, the whole biosphere – it will be unmanageable. for example, we would have to cover damage to weeds! is that something insurers will be happy to cover? would that be a manageable system? digging the foundations for a house would hurt worms. do we want that to be covered? is that reasonable? you have to be sure about the scope and make a definition that provides legal clarity. we have to see it as a step-by-step approach. i am sure that as we apply this legislation there will be more legal clarity. however, if we are too ambitious at the beginning and think that we can cover the whole biosphere, then we would not be serving environmental interests. on gmos, nuclear and marine pollution: we can see that this is an area in which we would also like to be more ambitious. however, we have a very practical reason for not covering this in this particular proposal. we are negotiating to improve the rules on these areas. we have international fora and conventions that cover these matters. we do not want to duplicate work: we want to be practical. we do not want to overload this system by taking it on here. we need another few years to work on incorporating these aspects. for international activities, there should be international rules. as i have already said, traditional damage is already covered by legislation in member states. what about oil or marine pollution? the polluter shall pay! this is the only rule that can apply. it is a scandal that we have let it go this far. we have seen accident after accident. but, again, this is a truly international activity and we have to work towards international rules that apply the polluter-pays principle. i understand that the director of the iopc fund has announced that claims for compensation would only be covered by up to 15% of this amount. this is not acceptable. the commission is well aware of the situation and this is why we have always supported the attempt to raise the funds available up to eur 1 billion. i understand that this week a diplomatic conference is being held in london to sign a protocol to raise the ceiling of the funds available for compensation. i hope that this conference will be a success; we are all determined to work on marine pollution and to do everything we can. we want to avoid loopholes and also the absurd situation where neither the directive nor international conventions apply. that is why the commission agrees that the directive should apply in all cases where the relevant international convention is not yet in force. for the same reason, where the relevant conventions are not in force, the commission does not support the notion of waiting for five years before the directive is applicable. it has also been proposed that after a five-year transitional period, the commission should develop proposals so that the directive applies eventually in a complementary manner to the international conventions where liability or compensation is insufficiently regulated within those conventions. the commission does not believe that letting the directive play the role of filling in possible gaps in existing conventions would be either constructive or workable. the conventions contain exclusivity clauses that bind the states' parties to the conventions and prevent them from imposing any complementary legal instruments, so member states would have to denounce conventions they had ratified to be able to follow community rules. before letting it come to that, it would surely be preferable to try to improve those conventions by renegotiating them in the proper international context. what about regulatory compliance and state-of-the-art and development risks? some amendments have been tabled that seek to maintain the so-called permit and state-of-the-art or development risk defences as proper defences and, as far as permit defences are concerned, with a formulation that would better specify its scope. other amendments aim instead to introduce regulatory compliance and state-of-the-art as mitigating factors. the commission believes that proper defences, with the proposed improved wording, constitute a preferable solution in terms of insurability and legal certainty. the commission considers it useful, however, to better specify the scope of the so-called permit defence to avoid any suggestion that this might be tantamount to a blank cheque to pollute, because this is not the idea. the commission does not find it appropriate to impose liability on the competent authority when damage is caused by a permitted activity, nor does it find it appropriate that there should be a link between the state-of-the-art defence and any environmental audit and management system. i am sure that these issues will come back during further decision-making on this issue. amendments have been tabled to impose either proportional liability or joint and several liability. the commission considers, however, that member states should retain the right to opt for either joint and several, or for proportional liability, or a mix of both, according to their national legal traditions. i recall in that respect that the proposal offers some safeguards to operators, since it provides that operators who are able to establish the extent to which the damage results from their activities, be required to bear only such costs as relate to that part of the damage. it has been proposed that the commission should present a proposal to supplement the regulatory framework on liability for damage caused by gmos. apart from the fact that such a requirement would unduly impinge on the commission's right of initiative, the commission is currently considering the issue of economic damage to conventional and organic farmers in the context of the so-called coexistence debate. the outcome of that debate should not be prejudged here. again, this is what will cover traditional damage. on financial security: amendments have been tabled either to propose that financial security become compulsory after the directive enters into force, or to oppose such a move towards compulsory financial security. i think we can agree that financial security will become an important factor in the proper implementation of the directive. member states and market operators, as well as the commission, will have an important role to play in encouraging a timely emergence of financial assurance systems, products and markets to that effect. having said this, it is clear to me that member states should have the possibility to develop financial assurance solutions at their own pace; solutions which are well adapted to their own needs and institutional conditions. in addition, financial markets should be given time and leeway to develop market solutions following the demand for insurance that is very likely to take off once the new liability regime is established. in the light of this, it appears premature to impose fully-fledged financial security for all annex i operators within a few years. that said, it would certainty be fruitful to revisit the situation when the commission carries out its general review of the implementation of the directive. there is general agreement that the polluter-pays principle should imply, for the liable operator as polluter, to pay for all the damage it causes to the environment. in addition, there is a clear need for a common understanding within the community that the costs of environmental damage should be borne by the polluter. furthermore, the rules set out in the proposal specify the full range of remediation actions to be carried out by the liable operator. amendments have now been tabled to narrow down the scope of damage remediation by suppressing the remediation of interim losses, together with suppressing the concept of a natural resource service. deleting elements from this range of actions would inevitably result in the polluter not having to carry the full cost of the damage he causes. finally, in the difficult context of this debate on environmental liability, the commission has tried to reach an overall balance which has already been built on compromise solutions. at this stage the commission is still of the opinion that the proposal is fair and workable in many respects and should be supported. i am also aware, however, that we are still at the beginning of the legislative process, and thus entirely conscious of the need for all the institutions involved in this process to reach agreement in due course. such an agreement implies necessarily the willingness of all parties to find appropriate and satisfactory compromises. the debate has reflected this need to ensure that we bridge the different views and find a workable solution in the end. i shall hand the commission's position on all the amendments to parliament's services for publication commission's position on parliament's amendments: see annex.. however, i should like to say one word about the amendments we have accepted. in addition to the technical amendments that the commission can support, i would single out the amendments to articles 4 and 5. the commission can accept these – at least in principle. these two articles are at the core of the proposal since they specify via whom and how preventive and remediation measures should be taken.
in writing. - the proposal for a directive on 'environmental responsibility' is very important to ensure better protection of the environment and to combat all types of pollution. from the 2002 azf disaster in toulouse to the erika and prestige oil tankers, these disasters have cost lives and caused serious and lasting environmental damage. the report by the legal affairs committee proposes a more conciliatory approach to the interests of business by weakening the original proposal for a directive. on the contrary, the provisions envisaged must be reinforced with means of protection, by making polluters bear the burden of the damage caused to the environment, by giving the possibility to ngos and citizens to bring legal proceedings, and by including in the directive the damage caused by gmos. at a time when fipol has just announced a ridiculous 15% compensation rate for the damage caused by the prestige, rightly creating astonishment and anger among the population and associations, europe now has a responsibility to make a completely different voice heard. it must convey a strong message of justice and determination.
mr president, mr corbett's report is designed to strengthen parliament's powers of control over the texts implementing legislative acts prepared by the commission in the framework of what is mysteriously called comitology. the epp endorses the report's guidelines and supports in particular the idea that in the event of disagreement between parliament and the commission on a draft implementing text, the commission should not overlook this opposition. if the commission did not follow parliament on this point, the epp would gladly join the rapporteur in his request for referral back to committee. we have two points of disagreement with mr corbett's report. first, it provides that if parliament does not agree with the text proposed by the commission, the commission may simply withdraw its text without preparing a new one and without taking a legislative initiative. we think that this power is quite excessive. it is tantamount to a genuine authorization to strike enforcement acts and we cannot support it. our requests for separate voting are designed to deny this possibility. secondly, mr corbett's report suggests that if the commission were to initiate a new legislative initiative because it considers it impossible to overcome its disagreement with parliament by simply amending its text, the text prepared by the commission would be provisionally applied until the new legislative text is adopted. we do not think this is acceptable. it seems to us to be quite unfair to allow the commission to ignore parliament's opposition for a very long time, even though the disagreement between the two institutions is so serious and so deep that it cannot be overcome by a simple amendment of the draft, but would require the use of a legislative procedure. to give the commission the power to impose, even for a few months or years, the contested text would be to officially recognise the commission's power to ignore or violate the law. these are the two reserves we have. we have not tabled any amendments, but simply requests for separate votes which actually seek to correct the report on this point, which we also approve and for which we congratulate the rapporteur, because it is a remarkable piece of work.
commission. – mr president, first of all let me stress that the proposed amendments and the speeches made indicate that much thought and effort has gone into the examination of this proposal, which aims to enhance the role of the european parliament in the institutional triangle. as far as possible, the commission will take into account the detailed amendments proposed by the committee on constitutional affairs. the commission can accept, in whole or in part, amendments nos 1, 2 (in part), 4, 7, 8, 11 (in part), 13, 14, 18 and 19. however, the commission cannot accept amendments nos 3, 10 or 11 (in part), as they could complicate the commission's negotiations with the council. the commission's proposal aims to give the european parliament and the council equal rights as co-legislators in controlling the commission; but the proposal cannot go further than or beyond the scope of the present treaty, which does not provide for explicit delegation of legislative power to the commission. the commission, as the sole executive, should be able to retain full responsibility for adopting executive instruments. this political responsibility goes hand in hand with the freedom of the commission to adopt a decision, taking on board or not the objections raised by the legislator. the deletion of 'possibly' would tie the hands of the commission and prevent it from exercising its responsibility as the executive. the withdrawal option, as formulated in mr corbett's amendments nos 3, 10 and 11, would effectively amount to replacing the freedom of adoption by the commission by an explicit withdrawal or non-action by the commission. if the commission's views are not in line with those of the legislator, the commission would be obliged to renounce the adoption of an implementing measure. substitution of the commission's responsibility and freedom to adopt an implementing measure via the non-action option would also send the wrong political signal to stakeholders. the proposal is, on the contrary, based on the assumption that action is needed and that the commission will take responsibility for it. given the scope afforded by the current treaty, these amendments are therefore not acceptable to the commission. the proposal indeed goes as far as possible towards granting the european parliament the control rights that, as a co-legislator, it should possess. the reform, as i have just mentioned, cannot go as far as a more thoroughgoing reform conducted in the process of amending the treaty. in the framework of the european convention, the commission has explicitly suggested that the council and the european parliament should, under delegation of legislative powers, have the possibility to oppose a text proposed by the commission. in this scenario the latter would indeed either renounce its text, modify it or present a legislative proposal. to conclude, i can assure you that the commission will endeavour to achieve progress on this issue in the council. i would like to conclude that the commission needs parliament's support in negotiating the strengthening of the european parliament's prerogatives with the council. i am confident that the commission can count on parliament's continued support in the process of clarifying the roles and competences of the executive and the legislator.
- mr president, on the basis of the remarks just made by the commissioner, i would like to know what the rapporteur's position is, because it is quite important. i consider that the commissioner is wrong. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. or else we're denied the power to object, which i would understand perfectly. but the idea that we can object and that we can ignore our objections seems to me to be serious. i would like to know what the rapporteur's position is, whether or not he intends to ask for referral back to committee.
- that ovation, mr president, shows you how much we now know about the transmission of the main national accounts aggregates.
- mr president, our group has tabled four separate motions for resolutions. three of them have the same object, since the phrase "that is to say, withdraw the text" is deleted in three different places. these are the requests for separate votes on amendment no 3, amendment no 10 and the second request for separate votes on amendment no 11. whatever decision you take, ladies and gentlemen, it would seem logical to me, but i do not know whether it is compatible with the regulation, that one vote leads to the other two, and that is to ensure the coherence of the text.
- the good news is that the logic is also regulatory. so we will take one vote and we will be sure that this is all going in the right direction.
- i think we all got it. we shall vote in one vote, in view of the substantive explanations which our rapporteur has just given us. before the vote on the draft legislative resolution
commission.– mr president, the commission can accept amendment no 1, amendment no 2 in part because we do not want the words 'full information' ...(laughter and applause)... it is not as bad as it sounds! amendments nos 4, 7 and 8 can be accepted, amendment no 11 is acceptable in part owing to the word 'possibly', and amendments nos 13, 14, 18 and 19 are also acceptable. we cannot accept amendments nos 3, 10 and 11 (in part).
- on that basis, mr corbett, do you wish to invoke rule 69 (2) of our rules of procedure?
- i therefore tabled the rapporteur's proposal to postpone the final vote on the draft legislative resolution, in accordance with our rules of procedure. (parliament decided to postpone the vote)
in writing. - the proposal for a decision on the implementing powers conferred by the council on the commission - prepared by the commission itself - is in line with the wishes of the european parliament, which has just warmly endorsed it. parliament has long wanted to be given the right to control implementing measures on an equal footing with the council, at least for texts adopted under codecision. this ambition may surprise because in many parliamentary democracies, including france, the elected assembly does not control the details of the measures taken to implement laws, reserving only, if necessary, to call into question the responsibility of the government. but perhaps the attitude of the european parliament, which is primarily motivated by the desire to compete with the council, reveals something quite different: that the commission is not a real government, and that it is not a real parliament. today, after some progress, particularly in 1999, the commission wants to complete the process and push the council to give full control to parliament. it forgets only one thing: this equality is not provided for in article 202 of the treaty, which gives the council the main power. that is why we voted against the proposal.
in writing. - we voted with a number of reservations in favour of the sacconi report on environmental agreements concluded at community level, which provides for a new instrument to simplify and speed up legislative work at european level: voluntary agreements. these agreements, which form part of the sixth community environment action programme, may take two forms: self-regulation and co-regulation. we do not think it appropriate to favour co-regulation, as the rapporteur recommends. it is not of higher value than self-regulation. the commission does not have to be the judge and jury in the conditions for the implementation of these agreements. moreover, voluntary agreements should not be seen as instruments complementing the existing community legislative arsenal. voluntary agreements are flexible instruments which have their place in the legislative instruments. we welcome the fact that the commission's initiative took the form of a non-binding communication. we want the commission to continue along this path.
- that concludes the explanations of vote. (the sitting was suspended at 12.35 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
- mr president, on the occasion of the review of her case, obtained thanks to the judgment of the european court of human rights, leila zana, winner of the sakharov prize, has just called on the european union to encourage reforms by immediately opening accession negotiations with turkey. she said that this would speed up the process of democratization in turkey. indeed, when will the turkish authorities finally take this path instead of continuing to harass democratic activists, as has been the case with the arbitrary searches of the premises of the turkish human rights association, an association which is already frequently subjected to intimidation and threats. the new ban on the adep party, which has been in force since march, is also unacceptable, although the party clearly denies any link with the armed struggle. the constitutional court in ankara thus extends the very long list of sanctions against those who demand recognition of the rights of the kurdish population. the turkish authorities are locked into a logic that harms not only the direct victims of repression, but also turkish society as a whole and the country's image abroad. just one year ago, on 10 may 2002, the ad hoc delegation of our parliament considered that the banning of adpe would be a serious setback for democracy in turkey. unfortunately, this is the case today. what can we conclude? it is not a question of falling into the trap of the conservatives and other extremists here in europe, who exclude the turkish people from the christian club of the european union. it would be criminal to stigmatize and isolate this nation by closing the doors of the union. i therefore wish to reiterate here my full solidarity with the activities of those in turkey who are working for human rights, sometimes at the risk of their lives. the democratic forces must know that we are on their side to bring as close as possible the moment when living and expressing oneself freely in turkey will be a matter of course. the council and the commission therefore need to do much more with the turkish government to ensure that it meets the copenhagen criteria of promoting human rights and the rule of law. this commitment should be translated into substantial financial support for the activities of associations working for democracy. finally, with only a few days to go before the trial of leila zana and three of her colleagues is reopened, i would like to hope that the european parliament will be able to award her her prize in this house as soon as possible.
- mr president, madam commissioner, madam rapporteur, today the debate on the european cooperative society is polarizing a little bit around the legal basis chosen to reintroduce this report, a legal basis which has been called into question in all the work of the parliamentary committees, as is apparent essentially from amendment no 1 proposed specifically for the text of the regulation. this situation once again puts members before an impossible choice: on the one hand, to have the rights of this house to co-decision recognised and on the other hand, to have a status that a sector of the social economy has been waiting for for three decades. by refusing to give the european parliament the right to co-decide on this matter, the unfortunate precedent of the public limited company is being repeated and this situation may be repeated when we discuss the status of mutual societies or european associations. will the council continue to ignore parliament's position for a long time? on this first point, my colleagues have developed the arguments for this re-examination in great detail, and these arguments are strong. but at the same time, and despite everything, it is of no less interest to see a text on the statute of the cooperative society finally come to fruition. and although the draft submitted to us is somewhat different from the 1993 text, and although there has not really been a real debate on the substance, i am not sure that we should take the risk of delaying the implementation of a project which has had many vicissitudes. there are many arguments in favour of adopting this text without delay. i will mention a few. the project is supported by representatives of the cooperative sector as a whole, it has been said. the number of cooperatives interested in europe is anything but negligible. of the 200 000 companies - madam commissioner, i am a little higher up in the statistics than you - in this european cooperative sector, which represents more than 3 million jobs, 10 to 12% have a scope of action that goes beyond the local level and this scope of action covers all sectors of economic life. it is absolutely necessary that these cooperatives be able to expand their activities at european level and that they be able to do so in a secure legal framework, guaranteeing their specificity, both in terms of the primacy of the person and the social object over capital and of participation in the general interest and social cohesion. finally - and this is an important argument for me - an economic sector built on original legal bases, which has proved itself in local development, should be allowed to develop, especially in countries which are currently experiencing an economic transition to a market economy, which can be painful. this is the case for future members of our union. the recognition of the plurality of forms of enterprise and the social economy are one of the responses to the liberal globalisation that is being challenged today and a component of the european social model that we want to defend. i believe, madam commissioner, that this is a shared concern.
- the next item is the report (a5-0119/2003) by mr callanan, on behalf of the parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 94/25/ec on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to recreational craft (pe - cons) [3615/2003 - c5-0109/2003 - 2000/0262 (cod) ].
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and mr rapporteur, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by thanking the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee and, above all, mr callanan, for the excellent work which has led to the rapid compromise text before us today. the commission's proposal to amend the sport boat directive aims to incorporate environmental concerns into an internal market directive. in this respect, the proposal is a good example of the synergies between environmental and industrial policy that are necessary to achieve sustainable development. the compromise reached in the trilogue between representatives of this house and the council represents a balance between these two pillars of sustainable development. the commission expects the dossier to be successfully closed, i.e. the annexed text to be adopted by this house and by the council. this is the final procedural step on the road to the long awaited community-wide regulation on the limitation of emissions from sports boats, and i thank this house and especially the rapporteur once again for contributing to the achievement of this objective.
- thank you, mr rübig. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the oral question (o-0027/2003 - b5-0091/2003) to the commission, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on tourism.
- thank you, mr jarzembowski. - thank you very much. it seems that the commissioner wishes to answer, so i will give her the floor.
the commission. i would like to take this opportunity to address mr dhaene again, since he has asked such specific questions. i had mentioned that the commission would be presenting a communication on the sustainability of tourism this year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are certainly possibilities in that respect.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 11.06 p.m.)
- mr. president, our last position on iraq was before the war. parliament expressed its full support for the un inspectors. it considered that none of the reasons given up to that point justified war and that "any further action should be decided by the security council after a full assessment of the situation". do we have nothing to say about the very serious events that have taken place since then, which are in total contradiction to this approach? this is what the majority decision of this house to not conclude this debate by adopting a resolution seems to indicate. this procedural decision would be rather ridiculous if it did not reflect a much deeper and more serious flaw affecting the european union, namely the inability to define its own identity and defend it openly. this political resignation is spectacular since george bush began to put into practice his new strategic doctrine. to those who, like my group, feel that it is absolutely necessary to react, in particular by relying on what the new york times has called 'the other superpower', that is to say public opinion mobilized against the logic of war, i propose three closely interwoven priorities. first, the mobilization against the acceptance of the fait accompli in iraq. the people of this country have just been both freed from a dictatorship and plunged into chaos. i can tell you from interviews with long-time resistance fighters against saddam hussein that on 9 april many people's minds and hearts were filled with joy and suffering, relief and humiliation. as the days go by, it is the exasperation that tends to take over in the face of all the bloodshed, the scale of the damage, the looting and the plunder, the military occupation and the american civilian proconsul. all this, even though the declared motive for the war, namely the accumulation of weapons of mass destruction, for which george bush, tony blair and josé maria aznar had, of course, irrefutable evidence, is losing all credibility. our second priority should be an indissociable commitment to the effective implementation of the middle east road map. the union is a co-initiator and cannot therefore remain indifferent to the daily attempts of the sharon government to torpedo this minimal hope for peace, which is convinced that the current host of the white house will always understand its reasons. finally, we must help everyone to see how far the mad adventure of preventive war will take us if europe does not acquire the political will to do everything to stop it. the fight against terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is a necessity. but that has nothing to do with this dangerous imperial drift. i repeat, mr president, for the third time today my group's request for a first major debate in parliament on the new strategic doctrine published by george bush on 20 september. this cynical praise of the law of the strongest is nothing more nor less than the destruction of all the principles of the un charter, as the us draft resolution to the security council is now demonstrating. it is time for europe to sound the alarm and take up its responsibilities, as the majority of our citizens expect from us, from strasbourg to warsaw. meeting that expectation could be our road map. my group, in any case, is ready.
mr president, in the wake of the horrific attack in riyadh and the triumphant return of ayatollah akim to iraq, it is clear that the us-uk coalition's handling of the iraqi question has blurred the outlook in a very particular way. after 9/11, a relentless war was waged against islamist terrorism by a coalition that, in turn, coincided with almost the entire international community. close cooperation, particularly between the united states and the countries of europe, where the september 11 attacks were planned, was beginning to bear fruit in dealing a significant blow to the al-qaeda network. this clear and almost unchallenged strategic line was replaced by a much more risky project, in which the united states borrowed the old domino theory, which was in vogue in the communist world in the 1970s, and applied it to the export of the democratic model to the arab-muslim sphere, starting with a new iraq democratized by america. in fact, we are seeing the emergence of a new form of democracy, the anarchy that succeeded the dictatorship, and calls for the introduction of sharia law in iraq. if a prolonged occupation status were to be established, coupled with the maintenance of a general situation of insecurity, we would face a double risk. first, the sustained military occupation of a country hosting the holy sites of shi'ism would substantially reinforce the process of islamist terrorism and, locally, the restoration of order would inevitably pass through the network of shi'ite mosques. the continuation of the present situation is therefore particularly dangerous. it could jeopardise the resumption of a comprehensive and determined strategy against the multinational islamist terrorists, whose relevance has not been lost in spite of the military action in iraq, as the triple suicide bombing in riyadh shows. in order to rally the international community around the priority of combating a type of terrorism which threatens us all, the urgent need is not to decide who to punish and who to reward, but to prevent the situation in iraq from deteriorating and to ensure that the military occupation regime is replaced as soon as possible by new iraqi authorities whose legitimacy will be based on the recognition they will receive from the international community.
- so, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the member nations, the opponents of the war were right. the destabilisation, the aggression, the invasion of iraq by the anglo-saxon union - the only union which is still standing - were no more aimed at overthrowing the socialist baath regime than at destroying phantom weapons of mass destruction. the aim is simply to destroy iraq en masse to satisfy the ideological-industrial meccano of the small band of moneyed elites in washington. these people make a complete mockery of peace in the middle east and of the iraqi people, who are deliberately - i say deliberately - plunging into anarchy, with its horrible train of violence and nameless suffering. these people play with peoples as one plays with bones, and this is indeed the characteristic of empires, especially of this american empire that europe, by eradicating its only roots, the nations, and especially france, the only one to conduct an independent world policy, has allowed itself to be constituted by cowardice. not because europe is old, but simply because, deprived of national characteristics, it is politically dead. it would be hypocritical to speak today in this silly parliament of iraq's reconstruction, when the order of the day is the destruction of iraq until there is no stone left on stone, apart from the backs of the people. the question is not how to rebuild, but how far we will destroy iraq, humiliate the arab peoples, excite their anger to please the ideologues who want to provoke a general war between civilizations, which will be a war against civilizations, starting with what is left of ours.
- mr president, i regret that this debate has not been followed by a resolution, because it is urgent that parliament send a political signal to the public on this serious international crisis triggered by the belligerent diplomacy of the united states. it has shown, to the point of caricature, what almost the entire international community denounced as the real motive behind this unilateral aggression, as my green colleagues have already pointed out. but these actions cannot be reduced to a mere verbal condemnation, because in the face of this world hegemonic power, the credibility, even the sustainability, of the un is dangerously shaken, which cannot leave us indifferent. moreover, our community project is achieved in a collateral way in its political ambition, in its desire to unite european voices and in its spirit of consensus and international legitimacy. a people of 24 million souls are left to their fate, with not even their daily food supply. the time is grave, very grave, and a european initiative is urgently needed. we cannot simply become a reconstruction agency, even though this task is absolutely necessary and urgent. the stigmatization of a possible historic turning point in international affairs is no longer a mere journalistic formula. the threat is very real, and it seems to be forgotten in this house. it is therefore up to this enlarged parliament, the observers of the new members, to convince themselves that the european union must propose a more mature and longer-term alternative to the opportunistic and mercantile calculation of the united states. it is up to us to look to the legalist voices, for example, in france, germany or belgium, to establish a common and united position. finally, ladies and gentlemen, the un must be put back at the centre of the international negotiating machinery.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, i have chosen to focus my speech today on the lessons that the union must learn from the impotence to which it has been reduced throughout the iraqi crisis. a powerlessness you yourself have rightly lamented. on 10 april, with a majority of almost 75% of the votes cast, our parliament adopted a resolution on the new european security and defence architecture that is desirable after this war. this broad consensus is not surprising, given that the latest eurobarometer surveys themselves indicate that 71% of eu citizens now favour the development of a common policy in this area. nor is it surprising when one considers that this request also comes from outside the union, from those who, in large numbers, are eager to see the european union take its place in the management of the affairs of a world whose future must no longer rest solely on the shoulders of the president of the united states of america. the europe we are waiting for does not yet exist, and will not exist until the institutional reforms necessary for its functioning have been introduced. this is what our parliament's proposals are about, but we are well aware of the limits of their scope. we are well aware that it will be for the convention, as a last resort, to propose its possible adoption. if three quarters of the members of the european parliament have been so clear and, in some cases, so courageous in their votes last month, it is because, mr president-in-office of the council, they have understood the need, in view of the iraq crisis, to give their full support to those of our colleagues who are currently working in the working groups chaired by commissioner barnier on defence and mr dehaene on foreign policy. the lessons of the iraq crisis have taught us that the eu should be a united europe of 25 and that it should take on the role on the international stage that is expected of it and that it has not been able to hold at 15. the essential aim must be to enable europe to speak with one voice at last. if the convention succeeds, it will be because it has learned the lessons of the recent divisions, which i share with you, mr president-in-office of the council, in the conviction that they are more apparent than real.
- mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, before the war, during the war, today, after the war in iraq, parliament has faithfully analysed the situation and expressed its views. unfortunately, there are differences of opinion, but the fact is that the european union is divided. today, therefore, this debate allows us to reaffirm our principles. for my part, they are always the same: total condemnation of saddam's regime, but fear that the way in which the united states brought him down will create a situation that is not just as horrible but at least unmanageable; refusal of unilaterally decided wars; reaffirming the role of international organisations, and in particular the un, not only in deciding on the use of force, but also in overseeing reconstruction. reaffirming principles is good, but it is not enough. rebuilding after destroying is a duty, even for those who did not participate in the destruction. but it is not enough either. we must also do our utmost to understand why and how we have come to be so divided between europeans and between europeans and americans. we must do everything we can to rebuild our union, not just around a table, but in our heads. this means that we must work hard to arrive together at a common world view or at least convergent views on major issues, such as transatlantic relations, the place and reform of international organisations, the role of law and force, etc. these are difficult subjects, they're sometimes even taboo subjects. but this effort to understand each other and to clarify ideas, seeking convergence wherever possible, is a strong obligation for us after the shock we have suffered. rebuilding iraq, saving lives, is absolutely necessary. but we also need to rebuild, or rather build a shared vision, both of the world and of our responsibilities in the world. the greek presidency has made an effort to start this work, but much, much more needs to be done.
- in writing - the countries that tried to prevent military intervention in iraq failed all along the line: they made this intervention even more inevitable, by indirectly encouraging saddam hussein; they have neutralized themselves for the reconstruction of the country; worse still, they risk excluding the un, now accused of chronic paralysis and bias. it is true that the period which is opening up in iraq is going to be very dangerous, almost as dangerous as war itself in another form, and that it will require a very operational authority to manage it, capable of taking firm and rapid decisions. given the experience of pre-intervention, the un is not seen as playing this role. however, the un, without embodying "a universal consciousness above states" as dominique de villepin claims (by virtue of what?), represents a wide range of countries that can be useful for the stabilization of iraq. the un, and the eu with it, should therefore use their influence to help the coalition forces in the restoration of order in the country, the rapid establishment of a credible government, and the provision of humanitarian aid for food, water, electricity, hospitals, which the iraqis so badly need.
in writing. - this text must enter into force as soon as possible. some will certainly argue that article 308 of the ec treaty is not the relevant legal basis, that this legal basis excludes the ep, that is to say that it is denied co-decision in this area and that it will now only be consulted. the arguments put forward by many of my colleagues to reject this text are substantial and strong. article 95 of the ec treaty, which aims at the approximation of national laws relating to the establishment and functioning of the internal market, appears to be the relevant legal basis. but should we risk the status of the greek calendar being returned to it, a status which the social economy sector has been awaiting for several years? i don't think he did. i shall therefore abstain on amendment no 1 which challenges the legal basis, thus favouring the adoption of this text without delay.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the manders report on environmental responsibility because the amendments finally adopted were a fairly good answer to the objections i raised in yesterday's debate. a very large majority of meps (312 to 179) followed the same line of reasoning. the amendments i am particularly determined to vote for are: 1) amendments nos 85 and 99 which call in particular on the commission to draw up proposals to apply the directive to environmental damage resulting from nuclear energy and maritime transport; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. 3) amendment no 107 which requires operators to take appropriate financial guarantees to cover their liability. in addition, amendment no 54 was adopted, which is not perfect, but i am satisfied with it. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) in foodstuffs. of course, i ask that the moratorium on the authorization of gmos be maintained until such legislation has been approved.
in writing. - the manders report claims to be based on the polluter pays principle: companies that damage the environment must bear the costs of the damage they have caused. we voted in favour of this report because some of the amendments are sensible. there is still a major problem with its implementation. it is not enough for parliament to vote on its recommendations for them to come into force, nor is it enough for the competent authority to be appointed for the operator to assume its responsibilities. especially when the operator is a multinational group that has the means to circumvent them and the competent authority is used to complying with its requirements, as was seen in france with the company totalfinaelf (erika oil spill, azf explosion). the nuances which the rapporteur has drawn up on the responsibility of the polluter up to a certain point would be laughable if the behaviour of these large groups, which are particularly attentive to their profit-making, did not have dramatic consequences for the population. nor is it enough to have financial guarantees in place. fipol, which is supposed to cover the risks of oil tankers, has just announced that it will only reimburse 15% of the damage to the prestige, because its coffers are empty. to appease the anger of the victims, the french government did not consider turning against the charterer but made the taxpayers pay. this means that, in the face of the harsh reality of a profit-oriented society, this report will remain powerless.
in writing. - the issues raised by environmental liability and specific liability for shipping are, despite appearances, of a different nature. the text voted by parliament will cause confusion. the concept of environmental liability, which is still in its infancy, is based on the need to identify the person responsible and to establish a causal link between the event giving rise to the pollution: it involves lengthy procedures and late compensation. the system of no-fault liability laid down by the clc/fipol international conventions has the advantage for victims of designating a person responsible who must be insured and of creating a compensation fund which, in theory, can be mobilised immediately in the event of pollution. however, the experience of recent oil spills shows that this system must be extended to shipping companies and to biodiversity damage, and that fipol must be significantly upgraded and made permanent. these requests should be made to who by the member states most directly concerned and most determined to act. if they fail, it will be up to these same states to demand that the european union act unilaterally, as the united states has done, by taking over these indispensable improvements.
- mr president, in the fight against international crime and terrorism, cooperation between the member states of the european union and the united states already exists in the field of intelligence and has produced important results. it must be developed at the judicial level for reasons of efficiency, but also in accordance with our fundamental principles and the protection of freedoms. the more we intensify international cooperation in the fight against terrorism and other forms of crime, the more we must be careful not to lose the democratic guarantees and the principles of law in the name of which we act. i too, like mr watson, will recall parliament's resolution of 13 december 2001, and in particular the principles it set out for negotiations on judicial cooperation with the united states. first, fully respect the european convention on human rights and the minimum procedural guarantees of a fair trial, as upheld by the european court of human rights. article 6 of the treaty on european union should be explicitly mentioned in the agreement and there should be a reference to the charter of fundamental rights which has been proclaimed by the council, by the member states and which will, i hope, be recognised as having constitutional value. secondly, the extradition to the united states of persons who could be tried by military courts should be refused. thirdly, extradition must not be possible if the accused is facing the death penalty. mr alavanos is right, it is not simply that it may be denied, it is that it must not be possible if there is a risk of execution. fourthly, it is necessary to ensure that the provisions affecting data protection are proportionate, effective and of limited duration. as regards the link between the european mandate and the international criminal court, i believe that in the event of competition, member states should remain free to choose between extradition requests from the united states and requests for the surrender of persons under the european mandate or from the international criminal court, but i would like you to inform us of the positions within the council. is it true that the united states rejects any reference to the icc and that some member states support this position? the united states has requested that the agreement include a clause on extradition which would prevent any eu member state from sending a us citizen to the international criminal court or any other international tribunal without the express agreement of the united states. is this request also supported by member states? finally, does the council accept that such an extradition clause would be contrary to its commitments under the international criminal court and the rome statute?
- mr president, the historic event of the enlargement of the union, and perhaps even more so the new situation created by the occupation of iraq and the imperialist pretensions of the united states, all this implies reflecting on the role that the european union wants to play in the future and, in particular, with its future neighbours. it's an emergency. the logic of force persists in the post-war period. by squeezing resources, by monopolizing all levers of power, the bush administration is both insisting on imposing a fait accompli against the interests of the iraqi people and ignoring the un, and therefore respect for international law. but to counter this true doctrine with another world view, the european union must now show political courage, take initiative and engage in dialogue. it seems to me that establishing new relations with our future neighbours could be a decisive first step. i am thinking in particular of the arab-muslim world, whose almost permanent stigmatization and humiliation, added to the economic and social divide, can only fuel religious fundamentalism as well as the use of terrorism by increasingly dangerous groups. and here, in echo, the far right hopes to prosper. to combat all these dangers effectively, it seems to me that other objectives and other means than those developed in the commission's communication should be given priority. the new concept of 'new momentum' is, of course, expressed in words, but ambition is also expressed in words. but there will be no common space without common construction. but far from it, romano prodi speaks of 'political rapprochement' and 'progressive integration into the economic and social structures of the european union'. would the word 'neighbourhood' now replace 'partnership'? does the composition of the meeting in athens on 17 april, which you mentioned, extended to 40 european countries only, foreshadow a kind of multi-speed construction, with countries in the second zone - the so-called greater europe - and others in the third zone - the southern mediterranean countries? but above all, the simple alignment with the market logic governing the current european construction is far from meeting the needs, or even any efficiency in this matter. a genuine cooperation policy cannot be reduced to the sacrosanct transposition of the community acquis, since that is what it is all about, and especially since no counterpart in the field of aid is mentioned. the approach of the specific action programmes may be interesting in view of the rigidity of, for example, the overall barcelona process. however, while the negotiations with the applicant countries have left a bitter taste and a lot of frustration, as we know, no challenge is being proposed by the commission. worse, a bonus for the best reform students is put forward. finally, the commission does not pay much attention to conflicts, whereas a common area can only be built on the principle of international law and on a much more active role for the union. finally, the almost exclusively security-oriented approach to relations which characterises the commission's document as a whole ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the enlarged europe's neighbourhood policy, which the council and the commission have just spoken to us about, seems to us very interesting because it is part of a new, more flexible approach, that of general but graduated and differentiated cooperation, adapted to the case of each neighbouring country. at this stage, however, it raises four questions for us. first, the content of neighbourhood agreements has sometimes been defined by the phrase 'everything but the institutions', which can be misinterpreted as 'everything but the decision-making power'. this ambiguity should therefore be removed. secondly, on the substance, there was also talk of the priority extension of the four freedoms of movement in the single market. isn't this commitment in advance very unwise? of course, other objectives are even more important, such as safety. thirdly, the new neighbourhood policy seems to be reserved for neighbouring non-candidate countries. turkey is not on this list, but it is not clear why, as its accession has not yet been formally accepted. fourthly, in this neighbourhood policy, the european union does not start from scratch. it does not start from scratch since the current members already have relations with their neighbours, especially those who are immediately adjacent. how will european policy be articulated with existing national policies? should not the member states which are closest to us be given a decisive voice or a privileged right to see the new european policy?
mr president, in my mind, the initiative in favour of the new neighbouring countries of greater europe is not primarily intended to make its neighbours wait, who are waiting, mr verheugen, to be admitted to the union one day. they already know our demands, which will continue to be inspired by the copenhagen criteria, but which will be more precisely defined, it is true, by the constitutional proposals we expect from the convention. i have just underlined its importance in this morning's debate, but i would like to give here the moving testimony received from one of these countries, which, as it says, is waiting today in the council of europe's kindergarten to be admitted one day to the european parliament's court of elders. it was in mostar, where you know that the rivalries and fears between catholic croats and muslim bosniaks are still far too great, despite the efforts of the european community. and in mostar, the croatian mayor of the city told me, "the only thing that unites us, catholic croats and muslim bosniaks, is the feeling, the conviction that we are europeans together". that's for those who wait. but, while i follow with all the attention that our rapporteur, mrs napoletano, deserves, i am not the only one who is asking that, with her report, we send a very strong signal to all those who have neither the vocation nor the intention of seeking membership, and i am thinking in particular of our neighbours in the south of the mediterranean. many in the region fear that the efforts made in favour of central and western europe will lead to a loosening of the already too little institutionalised links with their own countries. in the wake of the attacks of 11 september, we decided very unanimously, for example, to give new impetus to the barcelona process and to this end, we decided to create a euro-mediterranean forum, which is unfortunately now in abeyance because of the war in iraq. is it not time, mr president-in-office, to relaunch this initiative now and without delay?
- mr president, commissioner, europe has never defined its limits. she started at six, she could have started at seven or eight. even today, in the draft constitution, article 3 says: 'the union is open to all european states whose peoples share the same values', but it does not specify what a european state is. it is never good to not indicate the borders to the people, because it worries them more than it reassures them. so, everybody has their own boundaries in mind. for some, including myself, they stay in the countries of the maghreb, who are our neighbours and friends. so it's good to plan the best partnerships with them. the borders also stop at belarus, moldova and ukraine, because these countries are part of a whole, as is russia. they are neighbouring and friendly countries. for many, the borders also do not include turkey and the caucasus countries. we made this promise of integration 40 years ago, but it is not certain that the peoples will follow us. in this case, our neighbours would be iran, iraq and syria. i think we should offer this group the best possible partnerships. in any case, if europe is to have a bright future, it must be able to put an end to its geography. you know the saying, "too much kissing, too few hugs".
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the key element in the debate on foot-and-mouth disease today is, in my view, the constraints imposed by the oie on trade sanctions against countries which no longer enjoy the status of 'free from foot-and-mouth disease'. it is these rules that make the disease so terrifying for farmers, because of the very high economic losses it causes. it should be remembered that foot-and-mouth disease in livestock is not dangerous to humans. it's not a public health problem. i therefore support our rapporteur's proposal in his amendment no 5 to recital 14 that member states should submit proposals to the oie to change the trade sanctions linked to these situations. to be more precise, this evolution of oie rules must go in two directions. first, we must take account of the progress made in vaccines - marker vaccines, which distinguish a vaccinated animal from an infected animal, and vaccines with a wider spectrum - and remember that products - milk or meat - from a vaccinated animal do not present any danger to human health, nor any risk of contagion. there is therefore no longer any reason to discriminate against these products or the countries in which they circulate. this development of the rules will also make it possible to reconsider the problem of prophylactic vaccination, which should be allowed by the member states in cases where, for reasons of their own, farmers wish to do so. i am thinking in particular of animals of high genetic value, breeders, small breeds of interest to biodiversity. secondly, the member states must be allowed to regionalize their farming areas and it must not be allowed that an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in alsace - my example is of course theoretical - prevents brittany from exporting its excellent animal products. finally, and i regret that the point i raised in the work of our temporary committee on foot-and-mouth disease was not taken up by the rapporteur, let us not lose sight of the fact that certain developments in european agriculture, which have been encouraged by the deviations of a certain cap, are in themselves risk factors for the spread of epizootic diseases. i am talking about the increase in the size of farms, the unconsidered intensification, the generalization of off-shore livestock farming, the specialisation of regions, the transport of animals over long distances: all these factors that contribute to creating very high densities of animals increase the risk. at the moment, mr president, when this parliament is going to have to decide on the mid-term review of the cap, let us be determined to correct these deviations rather than amplify them, by favouring farms on a human scale, extensive livestock farming in the less favoured regions, the local integration of the supply chains, local slaughterhouses, in short, a farming with a human face.
- madam president, in its broad guidelines for economic policy for the period 2003-05, the commission presents a set of recommendations which, in themselves, seem to us to be quite sound. ensure long-term sustainability of public finances, launch structural reforms, including labour market reforms, to make better use of human resources, lower marginal tax rates that are too high, encourage competition, reform pension systems and so on. unfortunately, in the euro area, especially in france and germany, these recommendations are rarely implemented. recovery is slowing down, unemployment is rising and the date for the return to balance of public finances is being pushed back. there's stiffness and tightness everywhere. i would also point out in passing that the situation in the euro area is much more serious than in the rest of europe. in this failure, the responsibility is shared. at national level, the harmful effect of the socialist period in france can never be emphasised enough, which has led to an incredible regression of public rationality, by inculcating the belief that one could spend more by making less effort, retiring at 60 with a low contribution period and working 35 hours a week. we are now reaching the unrealistic state of mind which we are witnessing today and from which it will only be possible to escape by a long period of education. but in this situation there are also european responsibilities, which the commission document does not mention. the ideology of openness to all, which was supposed to spur reforms, is in fact destabilising societies and increasing tensions. the pro-immigration policy, which was supposed to rejuvenate society, actually increases its burdens and disintegrates it. the euro itself, which has suppressed internal monetary fluctuations but at the same time introduced new rigidities of other kinds that weigh on growth. i am not only talking about the rigidities of the stability pact, which we will probably have to relax or defer, but about the much more serious structural rigidities resulting from the unification of monetary and exchange rate policies. the recommendation on the broad guidelines of economic policies, like the report by josé manuel garcía-margallo of our assembly, is not in a position to solve these problems, because it does not make any examination of conscience, any criticism of the european policies followed so far. the only prospect is to continue on the path of unification and to deepen it with more coercive power for the commission. we cannot recommend this path of unification under duress because it would be disappointing, unproductive and probably even dangerous for europe. in our view, the union should change its strategy and make the protection of european companies its primary mission. if citizens felt more protected, they might be a little more willing to adapt.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the question we are debating this morning is a major one. that is why i am particularly sorry, if not angry, that parliament has been consulted too late, and therefore too briefly, on a matter which is vital for our fellow citizens. this is the period 2003-05, which has already largely begun. my second regret, which is also a clear and firm disagreement, is the liberal philosophy behind the report. the european commission's proposal and the report are based once again on the apology of the stability pact, which then conditions almost all the proposals that are made to us. it is an approach, and many of my colleagues have said so, that is both outdated and negative. when we see growth falling sharply and unemployment rising sharply again everywhere, we cannot but support a revision of the stability pact. to revive growth and create jobs, we in europe must regain public financial leeway. to increase public and private investment, to stimulate research and development, to take social factors into account as a positive factor and not as a hindrance, as the liberals claim. so there is, in the guidelines proposed to us, both a clear lack of political ambition and a dramatic reversal of political priorities, which always makes employment what i will call the adjustment variable of the economy, finance and the stock market, hence a multiplication of restructuring of companies whose only purpose is to increase financial profits. that is why i say this morning that i am totally disagree ing with the spirit, the principles and the poverty of the proposals that have been put before us. we will therefore of course vote for the amendments which seek to improve them, but we will continue to fight for a more civilised and more social europe. and since i have a few seconds left, i would like to conclude, madam president, with a final word in the form of a question to those of our colleagues who this morning spoke very harshly against employees who are defending their pensions, asking them whether they are prepared to sacrifice their parliamentary pension. i have to say, madam president, from experience, i doubt it.
commission. - (es) madam president, thank you very much to everyone who has taken part in this debate. unfortunately, given the time available, we cannot go into all the points raised in detail, but i would like to make a few points which i think are important. first of all, i thank parliament for its cooperation and i am aware of the difficulties it is facing. i would also have liked to see us discussing the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment guidelines together today. unfortunately, that has not been the case. i am even aware of the short time available to parliament, but the commission and the council are also limited in that respect. it should not be forgotten that the commission's proposals must be based on the decisions of the spring european council and it is therefore very difficult to start this kind of work before april. secondly, the fundamental debate today is whether the economic policy we have decided is right for the present situation or whether the present situation should lead us to a change of economic policy. i think that two things are mixed up in the debate here: economic policy and economic policy instruments. i think that if we look at the behaviour of macroeconomic policy during this period, we will see, in my view, that it is helping to deal with the crisis. monetary policy has naturally changed, and even fiscal policy is now clearly more expansionary than it was in the margins accepted by the stability and growth pact. i shall come back to this point later. i believe, however, that the present situation should not make us retreat from structural reforms, which are nothing other than the modernisation of our economies. is the stability and growth pact a brake on the current economy? does it present a difficulty? i think that, with excessive simplification, a rigid stability pact has been proposed, which does not allow for any room for manoeuvre - which does not correspond to reality - and is based on an assumption which is also not correct, namely that discretionary fiscal policies are correct for any economic situation. rather, i think economic theory tells us something different, and that is that they are only correct in very specific circumstances. i think it is worth reflecting on a point which i consider to be fundamental, and that is that we should see that precisely the countries which are having the most difficulty are those which have the greatest deficits today. is the deficit therefore a cause of the bad economic situation or is the bad economic situation a cause of the deficit? i think this is a debate which can be illuminated by other elements, such as developments in japan, or even the very impact on the united states of the measures taken by the present administration. i still believe that the stability and growth pact is the best instrument we can have for an appropriate, flexible - in so far as it allows us to use automatic stabilisers - and automatic fiscal policy, so as to avoid any kind of voluntarism which can have negative impacts in the end. in my view, the analysis of economic policy which we have put forward has in some cases gone too far into the anecdotal, the detailed and even the caricatural. it is not a policy based solely - or, let us say, at all - on wage restraint - wages are always set in accordance with the evolution of productivity - nor is it a policy whose fundamental element is employment. the policy is made up of three fundamental instruments, which i have already mentioned: sound macroeconomic policies, structural reforms and environmental, social and economic sustainability in the medium and long term. even when we talk about structural employment policies, we are not talking solely and exclusively about the flexibility of the labour market. we are talking about population trends, the rate of activity and, of course, labour markets adapted to the new situation. of course, the economic policy guidelines are not contradictory to lisbon. they are one of the instruments - not the only one - which enable us to put lisbon into action. i am surprised at the concern to redefine new programmes of action and new lists of things to do. i am also surprised at the references that are sometimes made to the need to know more about what is happening. i assume that parliament is aware that the commission's summary report on the implementation of lisbon was published in january. and in this report you can have all the information you want about the achievement of each of the objectives by each of the member states. you even have lists, with charts, that highlight which countries have done better and which have done worse, and you have, perfectly defined with lists, the three worst countries and the three best countries in each of the objectives. all these issues therefore exist, just as there is a report on the implementation of the broad economic policy guidelines every year, in which you can see exactly where the shortcomings are. so our fundamental problem is not knowing where we are, but wanting to change the situation in which we find ourselves. and that is a point which, as a consequence of our own system, is the responsibility of each of the member states. the system we have in place is based on a policy of peer pressure, as i said in my supplementary speech, and that is obviously a fundamental point. some of you have referred to the open method of coordination, a method which, in my view, should be applied in those cases where there are no methods of its own in the treaty. so it's a useful method, which should be agreed, but it's a limited method. i am sorry that time does not permit us to go into further details, but i would like to thank all of you for your participation in this morning's debate.
- thank you, chief. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0153/2003) by mrs randzio-plath, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the appointment of mrs gertrude tumpel-gugerell as a member of the executive board of the european central bank (cns) (8090/2003 - c5-0193/2003 - 2003/0810).
- thank you, mr rübig. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon. the voting session will begin in a few moments.
- mr president, i would like to draw the attention of the house to certain provisions of our rules of procedure which we shall be ignoring in the minutes that follow. these are articles 1, 2 and 3 of chapter 2 of the provisions in force since 1 july 1998 governing the holding of meetings in parallel with the plenary sessions of our parliament. the basic principle is that our parliament does not organise any meetings of its members at the time of plenary sessions, the few exceptions being mentioned in rule 3 and no exceptions being tolerated for the crucial sessions which are our voting sessions. i should like to point out that many of the 32 members of the convention - 16 full members and 16 alternates - have had to leave the chamber to attend the important work of the convention which will begin this afternoon in the premises of our parliament, but in brussels. in order for colleagues to be able to do their work as conventional and legislative representatives, it would have been sufficient if the work of the convention, which our parliament has the honour of hosting - and this is an excellent thing - had been carried out for once in our strasbourg buildings. for the sake of absurd bell-ringing, we shall taint this morning's votes with irregularity, because any vote that is acquired by a margin of less than or equal to 32 majority votes may be suspected of having been tampered with. i'll leave it to you to judge the legal and political consequences. in conclusion, i would also point out that if we do not take action, the same unfortunate situation will reoccur at our plenary session on thursday, 5 june. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. - the schmitt report aims to establish tighter controls on cash movements of eur 15 000 or more, the floor in force in european financial institutions. greater transparency on the origin of funds, as proposed by the rapporteur, will not change the case, which the rapporteur partially acknowledges. this will not prevent large sums of money from being laundered, provided that they do not reach this amount. nor will it prevent the multiplication of transfers of a lower amount, a common practice among launderers all over the world. this is to say that parliament has no real desire to fight money laundering seriously. if so, he would propose lifting the banking and commercial secrecy. but since the majority of parliament is committed to the protection of sacred private property, and therefore to the preservation of this secret, this choice favours a situation which leaves room for both illegal trafficking and corrupt practices. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - the foot-and-mouth disease epidemic is over, but we must not forget that the sectors concerned, like many other activities in rural areas, have paid a heavy price and are still facing the consequences of this crisis: consumers are suspicious, the lost external markets have not been recovered, leading to the fall in prices on the domestic markets. this crisis has highlighted the importance of a neighbourhood policy both for bringing upstream and downstream sectors closer together and for effective public services at local level. despite reservations on some points, we support this report because it advocates the use of vaccination, support for research to develop effective control tools and marker vaccines, the strengthening of health and border controls, the adaptation of control programmes to preserve genetic resources. wildlife, game and all species with small numbers of animals must be the subject of specific measures. it would be unacceptable to repeat such a mass slaughter of animals. but prevention and control measures will not be fully effective without a clear compensation policy and better consumer information.
in writing. - i refused to vote in favour of the joint resolution, the result of opaque negotiations between the groups. we cannot consider relations between russia and the european union without mentioning the situation in the caucasus. do we need the results of the ad hoc committee to denounce the abuses in chechnya? does the tacis 'democracy' programme still make sense, when in chechnya the russian authorities organised an undemocratic referendum (90% of the vote was in favour)? the election campaign was not pluralist, as the federal troops considered the "no" vote to be support for terrorists. the electoral process was marked by numerous breaches of democratic rules. several thousand russian soldiers voted. pressure was put on the residents and refugees to force them to vote in favour of the yes. political cooperation with russia should be conditional on a ceasefire, an end to the bloody repression by the russian army and a process of negotiations with the aim of stopping military operations and seeking a political solution. finally, the european parliament should be very firm on the fate of the chechen refugees in ingushetia. the refugees are threatened with forced return to chechnya, in violation of the rights recognized by the geneva conventions on war refugees. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - the van den berg report, like the ferrer report, claims that european union aid could do nothing less than reduce poverty in the so-called developing countries. but everyone knows that the aid from the european union, from the richest countries and from international institutions is a mere drop in the bucket compared to the poverty that is overwhelming these countries. the rapporteur himself admits this. but that does not prevent him from sharing his well-thought-out views on the virtues of education. in reality, this much-vaunted aid represents only a tiny fraction of what is being plundered in the third world by the big capitalist groups in europe and elsewhere. the rapporteur mentions some of the devastating effects: global economic inequalities, the burden of debt, cuts in public sector spending. but he doesn't even seem to want to stop it. this means that, for the european union, these countries are doomed to remain under the economic dictatorship of the large trusts. we abstained instead of voting against, only because we did not want to oppose the few aids that were being considered, however trivial.
in writing. - the garcía-margallo report would set the european union on a dangerous path, summarised in the explanatory memorandum: 'if the broad guidelines of previous economic policies have failed, and if the results of the lisbon strategy are delayed, this is mainly due to the inadequacy of the member states, and the fact that the commission does not have powers of coercion.' the rapporteur therefore believes that the solution would be to give the commission more powers of coercion, to force states to reform themselves in the way that the commission wants, i.e. unification and general openness. that would be a mistake. in one specific area, the application of the stability pact, the commission has very strong powers of constraint, which go as far as the imposition of fines. but you can see they can't argue with the facts. in reality, as i said in the debate, we must challenge the dogma of unification, which in europe seems to have exhausted its beneficial effects and entered an extremely dangerous negative zone, that of coercion, of frustration of citizens and, finally, as we may fear, of the negation of national democracies.
in writing. - the rapporteur says the economic situation is disastrous. is the rapporteur concerned about the rise in unemployment, mass redundancies and precariousness? is this the disastrous situation of certain popular categories? is this the development of poverty? no, i'm not worried. the disaster, he said, was that corporate profits would fall. and what does he propose to do about it? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and here we have the parade of the usual proposals: tax exemption for job creation, tax reduction, etc. all measures that benefit shareholders but never jobs. the report also calls on the member states to continue to reduce the share of employees and pensioners in social wealth by raising the retirement age or by moderating wage increases, which the report wants to be linked to productivity, i.e. the intensification of exploitation. the european parliament, by voting on this report, would once again show that it represents the interests of the big business and not those of the majority of society. let him do it without us! we voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted against the garcía-margallo y marfil report because it is an ultra-liberal pamphlet which basically says that the broad guidelines for economic policy do not do enough. some of the proposals contained in it are also downright grotesque, such as the proposal for a budgetary reserve which makes no sense at all, given the rise in public debt. this is the result of tax cuts for the rich, which the report does not, of course, call into question. on the contrary, he insists on the desire to lower [further] the excessively high tax rates, to reduce further the taxation of wages and social contributions. as regards pensions, the report wants to raise the effective retirement age and increase capitalisation: these are exactly the types of projects against which employees in austria and france are demonstrating in the streets. the report contains a number of hypocritical phrases, which are expressed in a tired, wooden language. it proposes, for example, a balance between monetary policy, budgetary policy and wage increases, but in a way that is compatible with price stability. how can we fail to understand that what is at stake is the establishment of a rule of wage austerity which will guarantee a high level of financial profits, but which may also guarantee us a lasting deepening of recession and unemployment?
mr president, i should like to begin by greeting the commissioner, and i regret, without wanting to offend her, that i do not have mr monti or mr bolkestein in front of me, because they are naturally the most directly concerned by this matter. we have learned that in the commission's work programme for 2003, the commission envisages presenting a directive on postal services aimed at legally separating, that is to say, branching out, commercial activities on the one hand and public service activities on the other, without consulting parliament or the council, that is to say, by using the procedure laid down in article 86 (3) of the treaties. this approach therefore amounts to abandoning what has always been the legal basis for discussions on postal services within the union, namely article 95, which refers to a codecision procedure and thus subjects any decision in this field to democratic debate. if this were to be the case, it would naturally be a forceful move which we could not accept. we have examined several postal directives which are part of the progressive opening up of the market, and we cannot see what the reason for this once again intolerable entry into force might be. i ask you, commissioner, whether the commission intends to confirm this hypothesis, which is to change the legal basis to avoid any democratic debate before the states and before the representatives of the people. secondly, i would like to know what the content of this proposal is, since you are giving us the opportunity to do so through this debate, very specifically. indeed, given that the domain concerned will gradually die out in 2009, we cannot see how it could be the subject of a subsidiary or a legal separation. finally, we would like to know the motives behind this draft text, which today seems extremely confusing.
- mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her answer, which at least has the merit of clarity and which resembles that of a child who has been caught with his finger in jam. it is clear, as you have just said, that you find a loophole in the green paper on services of general interest. nevertheless, the intention was, and remains, to get rid of parliament and the states if possible, in order to impose a directive which effectively amounts to dismantling the postal service. you have to call things by their right names. i would like to echo mr posselt, whose arguments were rather paradoxical. he was in favour of liberalisation but regretted that post offices were being closed and that the public postal service was being degraded. but it's fatal. it is clear that public service cannot be cost-effective, especially when it comes to ensuring equal service in highly populated areas and in territories that are much less populated. if the public service is split up and turned into a profit centre, that will be the end of the public postal service, the end of postal presence throughout the whole of the country, the end of the social character of this sector. that is why - and i ask you to take the message to mr monti and mr bolkestein, madam commissioner - we will be uncompromising. you are uncompromising in your attempts to circumvent and flout the democratic principle by changing the legal basis and trying to avoid parliament. i know democracy is a deadly bore for all executives, but it's still a proof of civilization. we are prepared to go much further, of course, if the commission persists in its concern and its desire to carry out its liberal offensive by getting rid of the people and their representatives. i tell you: we would not hesitate to challenge the legal basis, including before the court of justice of the european communities, if mr bolkestein were to persist in this disastrous project, which is not surprising coming from him.
- mr president, commissioner, it is always a pleasure to welcome you to this house, but i too regret that mr monti is not here to give further explanations on the questions that have been asked. indeed, and i think my colleagues here feel the same way, we are not at all sure that your colleagues, and in particular mr bolkestein, have fully and transparently informed you of their intentions. these intentions, which i would call secret, since it does not seem that we know exactly what they are, seem to be to continue the dismantling of the european postal services, without going through the european parliament. because that is what is at stake, it is a question of bypassing codecision, that is, of circumventing the passage required by the european parliament to legislate on the future of european postal services. i shall not repeat the many arguments we have already been able to develop here on many occasions in defence of the public service and the european postal services, to explain the indispensable role - once again other colleagues have highlighted this before me - that the public postal service plays today in the life of our territories. we are committed to this, the citizens of europe are sending us this message and it is up to us to support these positions. we can only take note of the commission's reply, but what we can take from it is that the commission has withdrawn its proposal from this year's programme. does that mean she's gonna re-enroll him next year? i have noted that there is always the possibility that the commission may take up its proposal following the green paper. what does that mean? nothing is clear! we are not at all reassured, especially since, as i said, we are fully aware of mr bolkestein's intentions. it is therefore important to go through the legal channel, that is to say a european directive which can be discussed here, to find out what the commission's real intentions are. i would like to say to you, madam commissioner, that this is about respect for the work of all of us, respect for the work of the commission and respect for the work of parliament, which represents the citizens. and i want to stress again, because it seems that the message is not getting through enough, that the postal services, as my colleague mr savary has already said, are important to the citizens. we cannot therefore give our assent to any proposal which does not pass through a directive discussed in this house.
mr president, the warmongering that is tormenting the ituri region once again leads us to regret that our debates in plenary on africa are nothing but verbal condemnations, regrets and formal resolutions concerning these worst acts of violence and extortion. today, it is the ituri, plagued by an uncontrolled inflation of barbarism, that is snatching the black continent, and more specifically this great lakes region, from the silence of the western media. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is true that the deficit of democracy and inter-ethnic dialogue is glaring in most parts of the african continent. the foundations of socioeconomic development and the establishment of democracy are being undermined by business-oriented and clan-based governments, supported in most cases by vested interests in western democracies and our industrial firms. the education and health systems are too often reduced to the recruitment of young people from the earliest age into local militias. however, it would be too easy to stigmatize these local regimes, or a cultural or continental determinism that would reduce us to fatalism about the fate of these hundreds of millions of souls surviving on the black continent. once again, i must repeat myself from this podium of the european parliament to stress the weight, the means and the power of action of our european union. the community's room for manoeuvre is enormous in view of the misery of the local regimes and militias. they are enormous in terms of numbers: it should not be difficult for a union of 380 million citizens to send the forces needed to secure a subcontinent, a country and, a fortiori, a region. huge in financial terms: the key to ending the age of conflict is the establishment of the basic infrastructure needed for the development of countries. the european union is also committed to the development of the mediterranean region, and to the development of the mediterranean countries. all this so that finally, in our european union of which we are so proud, which has united the hearts of our eastern neighbours and served as an example to africa for its african union, we do not lock ourselves in our space of well-being sheltered from the torments of the world. if the european union, with its resources, its weight or at the un level, does not mobilize, what can we expect from the african union, or have to convey to it? we can at any rate hear the committed and willing voice of south african president mbeki calling for commitment to peace and the courageous efforts made by angola, by countries which have experienced firsthand the violence and the wounds of the interethnic unrest. the tragedy of srebrenica has shown us that modern barbarism is not confined to other continents. may this painful yugoslav ordeal, which is imprinted on our common and community memory, give us the impetus we need to intervene massively and immediately in this enclave of ituri! how else can we say to the families and descendants of the martyrs of this region, "we did not know, we could not do anything"?
- mr president, there is a problem, the urgency of which is obvious to millions of workers in the european union: the attacks on pensions. this problem is not just for workers in france, who will be on strike and demonstrating tomorrow, but also for workers in austria, germany, greece, italy and across europe, where governments are trying to push back the retirement age, at the same time as they are trying to cut pensions. to postpone the retirement age is to condemn those who will keep their jobs to the end to die at work and to condemn those whose employers no longer want to end their working lives as unemployed. why, then, this social regression? would the european union have become an underdeveloped region so poor that it could not provide for the old age of those who had worn themselves out at work? i say that it is possible to ensure a decent pension for all, provided that capital income is taxed more. i would like to express my solidarity with all those throughout the european union who do not accept that money should be given priority and that it should be owned at the expense of the workers. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, on behalf of the french socialist delegation, i would like to express our full support for the draft statute for members of the european parliament which is proposed in mr rothley's report. the completion of the enlargement process makes its adoption even more urgent. we support the approach and the principles that underpin it, transparency and equal treatment first. the need to increase the transparency of the parliamentarians' compensation system is not something that citizens are indifferent to. they're questioning us. we must also apply the principle of equal treatment between members of parliament as rigorously as possible. the intelligent implementation of this principle implies that benefits should be adapted to the differences in living standards within the member states. this is the way to achieve real equality of treatment. such adaptation mechanisms already exist for european civil servants, depending on their place of work, and this is considered fair. the french socialist delegation has therefore tabled an amendment to this effect to article 16 of the draft statute: we invite you to support it with us. i would like to call for caution: democracy has a price, we all know that, and citizens must understand that. i would like to conclude by saying that, although this statute is not perfect, it is a step forward, a step towards a genuine european democracy. i hope that the council will respect the work of parliament.
- mr president, commissioner, it will soon be only in europe that the complete liberalisation of the electricity market will be advocated. even the united states, after the california case and the enron case, is coming back. in latin america, liberalisation has been a failure. in britain, the state is faced with the bankruptcy of british energy. in sweden, prices rose by more than 50% this winter due to tensions between supply and demand. electricity is a sector that requires long-term investment. it involves security of supply, environmental protection and public service. it cannot be the sole logic of the market and competition. in some of our countries, mine for example, the public electricity service is, among other things, equal tariffs, the possibility for all households, regardless of their level of consumption or geographical location, to benefit from electricity at low cost and at the same price. the complete and compulsory liberalization, scheduled for 2007, which you propose to us will not allow the maintenance of the mechanisms of social and tariff equalization which guaranteed this tariff equality. that is why we are going to vote on an amendment to reject it which we tabled with the gue and the belgian socialist delegation, we, the french socialist delegation. because we believe that this two-stage opening programme, without even the first stage - the 2004 one for all non-residential customers - being assessed before moving to opening up to competition for all residential customers in 2007, is a more dogmatic than a pragmatic approach to liberalisation. moreover, in the case of competition, there is more of a strong movement of concentration of enterprises and the creation of a market of oligopolies and cartels than the creation of a genuine competitive market. we find it paradoxical that full liberalisation is being forced, when we have just started the debate on the green paper and have not even looked at the possibilities of creating a framework directive to protect public services.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although dissociated at the request of parliament, the reports by mr turmes and mr rapkay, which respectively amend the gas and electricity directives, have led me to propose an amendment for each of them rejecting the common position. even if the work of my colleagues is not in question, i cannot accept the proposals of an ever more liberal commission, especially in the energy field. as is too often the case, the commission is blinded by the dogma of openness to competition. the commission is very timid about introducing a universal service at european level and explaining the financing arrangements. without this indispensable prerequisite, there should never have been any question of calling into question, at european level, the public service missions defined in the member states. these missions are defined and financed according to specific territorial, legal or constitutional criteria. under the principle of subsidiarity, which requires action at the most effective level, only the member states are able to carry out these tasks at the request of their citizens. i would also point out that the rapporteur himself seems to be reserved about the positive effects of opening up competition in electricity. i cannot therefore support a parliamentary debate which does not bring a solution but is tantamount to destroying what exists. moreover, it is not possible to pursue the opening up of the energy sector to competition by extending to individuals a system originally designed for undertakings. it is irresponsible that the member states have finally given in to the commission's proposals by a majority. the primary responsibility lies, of course, with the commission, which has a monopoly on legislative initiative and which ignores the negative economic, social and territorial consequences of its proposals in order to achieve an internal market subject only to competition. in conclusion, in the light of all these considerations, i renew my opposition to these proposals which are aimed at completing the opening up of the energy sector to competition.
- mr president, the liberalisation of energy markets once again illustrates the break, in our view, between the european institutions and the european peoples. the european parliament's vote may well be an accompaniment to the strategy of rapid liberalisation of the electricity and gas markets, as well as of the public service as a whole. the glorification of the supposedly positive effects of competition, namely transparency, lower production costs and increased employment opportunities, is daily contradicted by reality. in fact, we see above all the opacity of decisions, the diversion of public funds to private interests, regardless of the status of the companies, the rapid increase in user tariffs, the granting of benefits to unethical private groups and the suppression of hundreds of thousands of jobs in europe, while the status of employees is being torn apart. the need for energy is a basic need for us, and access to it is a fundamental right. we believe that only real public and democratic control would make it possible to rationalise energy production and consumption while ensuring respect for the environment and flat-rate compensation. this would be a first step towards a european public service that meets the needs of users and employees today. that seems to be a distant concern in this parliament. in order to fully assume its responsibility towards the citizens of europe, parliament should therefore reject the directives on the energy sector and launch a genuine democratic debate on the real effects of the policy that seems to be taking place in the european union today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, those who know me will not be surprised to hear me confirm that, since energy is not a commodity like any other, i and my group are resolutely opposed to the new proposals for the liberalization of gas and electricity markets. in our view, despite the formal precautions and the undeniable oratorical qualities of our commissioner and our rapporteurs, these proposals run counter to the necessary energy savings and, therefore, to the protection of the environment. they will lead to job losses and, above all, to further deterioration of public services, as well as to the deterioration of the land-use planning tools of energy networks and tariff equalization. they will run counter to the increasingly indispensable diversification of energy sources. they will prefer short-term reasoning and accounting calculations. the logic of the internal market is therefore particularly inadequate in the energy sector. i would like to conclude by reiterating that far from being a nostalgic statist, i am in favour of a regulated world and a prepared future. energy is a major tool in this sense, if not the first of the tools. i hope that, aware of these challenges, we will one day move from a simple logic of the market to a political and civic vision worthy of the world that we will leave to our children.
- mr president, i am in favour of an integrated market in the area of network industries as a basis for a competitive european economy and solidarity, particularly through interconnection, but on two fundamental conditions: that the networks be treated as public goods and that a common energy policy be pursued. i am aware of and welcome mrs de palacio's work in this direction. but i see that neither our states nor our institutions have yet adopted a logic of the public good or even of common policy. the treaties do not give them the power to do so and the outcome of the convention in this respect is highly uncertain. the sectoral directives are clearly intended to advance the public service obligations: universal service, environment, interconnection, security of supply. but these are only recommendations to the states. we know very well that there is no legislative power for a european law. there is no doubt that a regulation is also being drawn up. by regulation i mean public action which not only makes competition effective but also brings it into line with public service obligations. in essence, competition still needs to be developed. some of my colleagues have to do it with a forceps. it's easy to stigmatize dinosaurs, my dear claude, while ignoring the contribution of historical operators and their benefits to consumers. it is easy to ask for more and more 'de-integration', but no one in the world yet knows how to regulate a 'de-integrated' and multinational competitive system properly. this is ten times more difficult than in a national integrated monopoly system. we have not assimilated the californian experience, the volatility of prices, the inadequacy of long-term contracts. we don't know how to secure development investments. i have seen in particular the, in my view, premature requirement for separation at the level of distribution, for which some colleagues are bidding against the commission, since they want to go as far as ownership. we may be the only ones who want to create a retail market for the supply of electricity to households. in the united states and canada, the debate rages. do the benefits of the program outweigh the costs? the profits? maybe the price of one pizza a year for the average household. what are the disadvantages? all the transaction costs and the insecurity.
- mr president, i should first like to thank mrs loyola de palacio for her excellent work and my colleague, mr willy piecyk, who has done a very quick and, i believe, very high-quality job of improving the text of the proposal. i would like to speak on two subjects, and first on the legislative one. it is true that europe has taken many measures, but it is also true that public opinion today is increasingly doubtful about their application. beyond this report on double hulls - whose demonstrative effect should not mislead us as to its impact, because we know very well that double hulls will not eliminate all maritime risks and that there is no such thing as zero risk - it seems to us very important that the european union ensures the effective implementation of the erika i and erika ii legislation. i should like to say to the commissioner that i did a count at the port of bordeaux last year, after the prestige disaster. eight garbage ships on the european blacklist have docked in the port without the french maritime authorities wanting to confirm to me whether they have been checked. i suppose that what is anecdotal in this small port is a much more general reality at european level and, in my opinion, what our citizens expect today is that europe should exercise direct responsibility, as direct as possible, towards the member states which we know do not move at the same speed and do not show the same willingness. the second register is the register of damage repair for disasters such as the prestige. i must tell you, commissioner, that there is a great deal of disillusionment in france. fipol shall contribute no more than 15%; the structural funds were not mobilised any more than the fifg. i think this is a very big image deficit for the european union as a whole and for the commission in particular. finally, as regards repairing the damage, we would like to have precise information on the state of the shipwreck's treatment and the prospects that may result from it. are we facing a chronic pollution that will last for years, or is there a solution that is emerging? it's been several months now that the authorities have been absent subscribers. there is a need for accurate information and, if possible, for reassurance to our citizens.
mr president, the resolution proposed to us by the erika mann report includes, in paragraph 21, a call for the complete communitization of european trade policy with exclusive community competence, majority voting in the council and co-decision with the european parliament. we cannot follow this community fundamentalism, guided by the idea that only supranational mechanisms are relevant to this policy, in order to promote global openness and the transcendence of nations. but global openness, as useful as it may be, is not the only thing. it must also be recognised that the member states have social models and fundamental interests to protect. we must therefore give them the means to do so and find the right balance between european policy and national interests, between the control of the european parliament and the control of the national parliaments. but in our view, the erika mann report does not strike that balance. in particular, it should be recognised that decisions by qualified majority in the council can have adverse effects. let us take a recent example: the convention on the future of europe is considering the possibility of subjecting all trade policy to the majority rule, thus removing the derogations recognised by the treaty of nice for certain essential services, in particular cultural services, which the treaty has kept within the scope of unanimity. the french government protested and asked for the unanimity to be maintained on the grounds that it was more protective. we approve. but why admit it here and not elsewhere? at the same time, an association of mainly american large companies, the international communications round table, is writing to the convention and the commission to praise the majority rule. it is clear that this rule would have the effect of bypassing certain national resistance and thus of dismantling our defenses. we therefore ask the convention to take a more comprehensive and balanced view. first, there is a need to involve national parliaments more closely. secondly, the majority procedure should only be used to decide on safeguard measures. on the contrary, whenever it comes to lowering our protections, decisions should be taken unanimously so as not to harm anyone.
commission. - mr president, i did not intend to reply, since the speakers up to mr berthu have basically confirmed our profound agreement on the principles. a word in reply to mr berthu on the subject of unanimity or qualified majority in trade policy decisions. we are, mr berthu, today and probably even more so tomorrow, in a world of elephants and in this world, the balance of power, particularly in trade, is largely determined by the balance of power. if the union wants to weigh in with all its might, it will not be able to do so unanimously. experience has shown that. the situation is simple. so, in this area, we want to have a say in the world that is and will be ours, and then, in a europe of 25, we need the qualified majority. either we do not want it - and i would not be surprised if that was mr berthu's view - and then we must maintain unanimity. the idea that unanimity is the best guarantee of sovereignty is further expressed in mr berthu's words. i am not surprised and i wanted to stress that. this is true today in the cultural field, as in other fields.
- mr president, i would just like to say to mr lamy that i have not been the unanimous voice in all cases. i have made it clear that a majority can be useful when it comes to taking safeguard measures, because in this case all countries must be in solidarity. but when it comes to lowering our protections, i think unanimity is useful because it is abnormal that a majority can impose measures which harm the minority of member states.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would first of all like to thank my colleagues who have worked very hard on this report, mrs de keyser, in particular, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, and mrs zrihen. i also thank the european commission and mrs gonzalo, who has given us all the information we needed. i would remind you that the meda programme is the instrument for implementing the mediterranean policy defined by the barcelona process in 1995. the first phase was carried out by the meda i programme (1995-1999) and the second by the meda ii programme, an ongoing programme, defined by the valdivielso and mine reports, in 2000. this new regulation entered into force on 15 december 2000 and we were able to analyse its operation until the end of 2002. the conclusions on meda i had raised many reservations, with the overall payment-to-commitment ratio from 1995 to 1999 being only 26%. the main causes of this relative failure were identified: the length of the negotiations and the complexity of the programme procedures, the multiannual nature of certain operations, the limited administrative capacity of the meda countries, together with, it must be said, the lack of administrative resources of the executive commission to manage this programme, which obliged it to delegate to technical assistance offices, whose intervention was not conclusive. meda ii does not simply promote the creation of a free trade area at the mediterranean level by 2010, but adds a social, cultural and environmental dimension to mediterranean economic cooperation. the programme has a total financial envelope of eur 12.75 billion for the period 2000-06, divided between the european union and loans from the european investment bank. in brief, on the basis of the documents we have presented, the analysis of the situation leads us to draw the following conclusions. firstly, we see a clear improvement in meda ii compared to meda i, thanks to the creation of the europe aid cooperation office for external relations. the overall ratio of payments to commitments for meda i has thus risen from 26% to 37.4% in 2000, 53% in 2001 and 92.9% in 2002, or 59% overall for meda ii. this was achieved by dismantling technical assistance offices and setting up eight delegations (algeria, tunisia, morocco, egypt, jordan, syria, lebanon and the west bank), with one representation for gaza only. these delegations are more operational, with commission representatives and well-identified resource centres in each country. secondly, the comitology has been simplified. a methodological guide was established in march 2002. thirdly, as we have repeatedly recommended, parliament is very attentive to the link between the allocation of aid and the respect of human rights policy by the various countries, on which we ask for an annual report. fourthly, we want regular monitoring of the democratic expression in the choice of projects, not just through bilateral negotiations between the european union and the states concerned, but also by ensuring the participation of civil society, ngos and respect for gender criteria, particularly with regard to the participation of women. fifthly, we stress the need to develop south-south relations further than bilateral relations, which still absorb more than 85% of the appropriations. sixth, we take into account the ongoing work of the european convention to address the five challenges for the meda countries: demography, employment and migration, globalisation, the scarcity of natural resources and the environmental challenge, human rights. seventhly, we suggest using the sixth framework programme for r & d to carry out research in the field of environment and agriculture to ensure food sovereignty, especially water management, and to put more emphasis on renewable energy. we want more attention to be paid to agricultural diversity, to the implementation of projects for farmers, traders, consumers and smes. finally, we want all the means of the information and communication society to be developed, in particular electronic communication. finally, we should note that all this meda action is now taking place in the difficult context of the post-war situation in iraq, the resolution of the difficult problems in the middle east, the peace process, in particular between israel and palestine, and the new balance established by the treaty of nice with enlargement to twenty-five, in relation to which we must continue to ensure that it is not a pretext for penalizing mediterranean cooperation. this is why we support the creation of a euro-mediterranean foundation for dialogue between cultures and civilizations, as well as the migration observatory, the consideration of the creation of a euro-mediterranean investment bank and a euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly with a structuring role in a well-integrated and monitored euro-mediterranean cooperation policy.
mr president, the proposal for guidelines for employment policies which the commission is presenting to parliament for consultation is a document based on pious generalities: improving the overall employment rate, that of women and the elderly, improving the quality and productivity of work, strengthening social cohesion and integration, all generalities which we have heard a hundred times already, which teach us nothing and which, no doubt, will also teach nothing to the governments of the member states. the coordinated employment strategy could have been useful, but it would have required going into greater detail, talking about more specific problems and comparing countries. it should have been noted, for example, that the unemployment rate in the eurozone countries is approaching 9%, while that of the non-euro countries is close to 5%. is there really no conclusion to be drawn from this? even within the euro area, the differences are very wide. apart from luxembourg, which is an exceptional case, we see, at one extreme, austria at 4.2% or ireland at 4.5% and, at the other extreme, france at 9.3% and spain at 11.9%. in the face of such differences, can we really draw guidelines that apply to all without falling into abstraction or even artificiality? i would prefer that the spirit of open coordination, which is that of diversity, the exchange of good practice, be better respected and that there be concrete talk about successful experiences that should be disseminated.
mr president, mr hernández mollar's report is full of good intentions and we will probably vote for it, but it is also full of a very curious naivety. how can we conclude legal agreements - and even discuss the law - with a state - the united states - that ignores and flouts the law, the very notion of law? how can we envisage the extradition of our nationals to a country, a state, which does not comply, or is increasingly not complying, with the same legal standards as ours? this is the question raised in this report. we are dealing with a state which applies the death penalty and to which we are considering extraditing nationals. a state that does not respect fundamental rights, in particular in the context of anti-terrorism laws; a state that is steadily increasing the number of cases brought before its military courts, so that we may eventually see citizens of our nations tried by a us military court; a state whose regulations on the transfer of personal data flagrantly violate our laws, so that, in the end, we may ask why we are passing laws on this subject, as on many others, if it is to blame a state that deliberately violates them. a state, last but not least, which behaves as in the old days when tribes kidnapped citizens of our nations, imprisoned them without even bothering to charge them - i am thinking of guantanamo, of course, but i believe there are other examples - and even, certainly, engaged in some acts of torture, far from the curiosity of journalists, alas! in reality, we are dealing with a state which does not respect the law and we have, in my view, no legal, at least judicial and criminal, link with it. i doubt, however, that the european union is capable of adopting a firm stance, since it has itself fallen into this trap, and is observing a kind of passivity towards the united states which will eventually lead us into overwhelming situations. we can see some examples of this.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of these agreements for judicial and police cooperation must not, however, exclude respect for our values. i would like to ask two questions. the death penalty still exists in the united states and even if we reach an agreement to prevent its execution, the problem remains: the death penalty is contrary to our values. the fact that, in the face of criminal acts, a hierarchy is established between american citizens who cannot be prosecuted before the international criminal court and union citizens who can be extradited to the usa to be prosecuted before the us judicial authorities: this discrimination is also contrary to our principles. the case of the guantanamo prisoners is the most blatant example of the fact that the us does not respect fundamental rights, since it brings these men before the special courts and violates their rights to a defence everywhere. the commission is also aware that these men are being subjected to inhuman, degrading treatment, which is contrary to international law and the universal declaration of human rights. in these circumstances, do you honestly think it is conceivable that the union could accept the extradition to the usa of an individual regardless of his nationality? in conclusion, what guarantees are there that the usa will actually respect an agreement signed with the union, when it does not respect its international obligations, disregards international law, considers itself above the law and has the right to decide everything unilaterally as its aggression in iraq has proved?
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as an introduction to my speech, i should like to thank all the fictitious rapporteurs from all the groups. the work we have undertaken together will enable us to send a strong signal in a very difficult area. i also thank the commission for its attention, which i particularly appreciated. it is essential for our countries to welcome foreign students properly, as it is essential to have a common policy for this welcome. in this way we will make a positive contribution to the training of future managers in third countries and strengthen cooperation with these countries in the field of education to meet the challenge of the internationalisation of education. this proposal for a directive contains important progress which we can all support. we note that a legal basis is finally given to the volunteers. we also note that with this instrument we may be able to catch up with the united states, where study visits are widely encouraged and facilitated. we are entering a strategy to strengthen cooperation with third countries in the field of education, as envisaged, for example, in the erasmus world programme. the votes in committee have made it possible to clarify a few points, and i will mention a few of them. we ask that researchers who are no longer students but who are also not in paid employment be included in the directive. we also want to emphasize that we have wanted to strengthen the fight against the brain drain from the south to the north. the reception of third-country nationals for the purpose of study must not result in an increase in the flight of competences from these countries. we also want to see improved procedural guarantees and therefore propose to reduce the time limit for communicating decisions on applications for admission or renewal to applicants from 90 to 60 days. we also offer greater flexibility in terms of student residence permits. where the study programme is less than one year but reaches nine months, as in many programmes, it would be regrettable not to grant a one-year residence permit in order to give students the opportunity, during the holidays before or after the study programme, to work to provide part of the resources needed for their stay, or to perfect their knowledge of the host country for a few weeks. the proposal for a directive gives students and trainees the possibility of working with a maximum working time of 10 to 20 hours per week. this right is essential to enable third-country nationals to increase their income in order to be able to live a decent life. moreover, as regards trainees, it seems to me very important that trade union representatives be informed of their particular situation so that they can monitor compliance with the provisions of the directive. the prohibition of work during the first year of residence or the withdrawal of work authorisation in the event of insufficient progress in studies is not justified and is likely to encourage illegal work and the exploitation of nationals. in the event of insufficient progress reported by the educational establishment, the member state may have the option of reducing the number of working hours so that the student can devote more time to his studies. the amendment tabled in this connection therefore seems to me to be satisfactory. we noted that some member states were concerned about the possible distortions of the right to mobility and the right to work for students. i understand these concerns, but we find answers in the text of the proposed directive itself, particularly as regards student mobility, which is very clearly defined, with precise conditions, in article 7. thus, as regards the mobility of a student who would like to change from student status to immigrant worker status, the proposed directive does not apply. this status, granted by a work permit, is the subject of the terrón report which we adopted in plenary last february. the change from student to migrant worker status is of course possible, but then we are out of the scope of the directive under consideration. we note that the commission is both in favour of an open policy on the admission of students from third countries, in accordance with the wishes of the member states, and of a firm policy on persons and networks who deliberately abuse the system. i therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we can take this opportunity to send a strong message to the council to urge it to reach an agreement quickly on this important issue in order to ensure a welcome worthy of our states.
- mr president, the proposals before us are designed to encourage more and more immigrants to enter the european union. the most eloquent in this respect was the last report on the right to family reunification, the fourtou report, in which the concept of the family was no longer even recognizable, since it had been so widened and distorted. in its frenzy to bring all the needy foreigners in the world into a europe which it wants to be respectful of human rights and with a humanist, if not humanitarian, vocation, the commission is planning the death of nations by the technique of submersion and suffocation. however, it is clear that this report, while complementing the measures already presented on immigration for employment and family reunification, does not follow the same approach. it is aimed at students who would come to the union to study there. however, the duration of the stay, the conditions for monitoring studies and the conditions for not renewing the student residence permit should be determined in this respect. this form of exchange and cooperation between europe and third countries is obviously a source of intellectual enrichment between students from the country of origin and the host country. however, should we not rather focus our efforts on development aid in the least favoured countries, so as to enable these countries to train their elites at home and keep them, in order to avoid what, unfortunately for them, often becomes a fatality: brain drain? of course, this requires a genuine policy of cooperation with disadvantaged third countries and a reversal of brussels' migration policy. unfortunately, we are far from that.
mr president, while i think it is legitimate that mr hume raises a practical question, the need to improve air links, and i support this request, i think it is scandalous that a member of parliament should call into question the right to strike in the countries of the european union. i would remind you that this is not a specific case for france. on 13 may, and i congratulate myself on this, austria experienced its first national strike in 50 years, and it was on the same subject: the defence of pensions. so if we want to bridge the gap of mistrust that exists today between the european institutions and the citizens, we must not follow the bad example of mr evans. on the contrary, we must show solidarity with our fellow citizens.
the rapporteur. - mr president, just one point on the voting list. i ask that we vote against committee amendments 21 and 26 in order to be able to support the compromise amendments tabled by the epp.
in writing. - the european parliament has just rejected the proposal for a council decision which was intended to lay down practical arrangements for the application of the directive on the mutual recognition between member states of decisions which each of them may have to take in order to remove third-country nationals. fortunately, parliament was consulted only for its opinion, and this draft will therefore finally be able to continue its adoption procedure. we believe that it is justified in substance, and the european parliament is trying to start a bad fight. the majority of this house argued that article 63 (3) of the ec treaty could not constitute a valid legal basis: it does mention the adoption of common measures for the repatriation of persons staying illegally, but this provision would allow for substantive measures, not procedural measures. this is a peculiar distinction, which even the legal affairs committee was unable to accept. in reality, the european parliament is showing its usual pro-immigration bias: what it dislikes most about this project is that it could facilitate the repatriation of illegal immigrants. of course, we didn't follow him.
in writing. - in line with the annual reports, this document is of very limited interest in substance. however, as the exercise requires, it provides an opportunity to publicly praise the servile legal federalism of which the community judge, the eyebrow-raising executor of the political project of the founding fathers, is a central part. let us not forget the endless congratulations to the commission, the regrets about the limited jurisdiction of the court of justice in the field of justice and home affairs, or the reminder of the great principles, the real tables of the law of federalist thought, on which the government of judges at european level is based. on the other hand, the comments on the need for increased cooperation between national parliaments and the european parliament and between their respective members should be noted, since they are unfortunately not intended to promote genuine participation of parliaments in the elaboration of community law, but merely to strengthen the control of the application of that law. it is clear that for the european parliament, the national parliaments have only one additional function to perform, namely to organise the subtle "splitting" of their own governments! the democrats will appreciate...
in writing. - lifelong learning, work, older people are very important topics on which this report focuses and employment strategies are essential. we want more jobs, but we also want better jobs. the fight against poverty is fundamental. we cannot accept that at the moment there are still families living below the poverty line. it's a matter of solidarity. the objectives to be achieved must be attainable. we must invest in quality services so that women can reconcile family and professional life. a more effective partnership must unite the member states. to promote women's participation in social life and the labour market, a series of concrete actions should be defined to provide services that meet the needs of childcare, but also help families with dependants. it is important to invest in public services to meet the needs of families and society as a whole, and it is essential that all relevant actors are involved in the implementation of the employment strategy. in addition, efficient public services require fair taxes.
in writing. - the committee on employment and social affairs proposes that we adopt the draft council directive establishing a comprehensive employment policy for the european union by 2010. this policy is part of the lisbon strategy to make europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth accompanied by a quantitative and qualitative improvement in employment and greater social cohesion. the amendments to this legislative resolution improve the original text in some respects, in particular with regard to the objectives of gender equality and the consideration of qualifications and vocational training. however, these amendments do not call into question the liberal logic of lowering corporate taxation and flexibility of labour. more importantly, the resolution maintains the objective of achieving a five-year increase in the effective average retirement age at community level by 2010, even as millions of people in france and other european countries demonstrate against this logic and for the safeguarding of their pension systems. for this reason i did not vote in favour of the report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to reiterate, on behalf of all my colleagues in the french socialist delegation and on my own behalf, our position on the report on the status of members of parliament. the completion of the current enlargement process makes its adoption urgent. we are in favour of the principles underlying this approach, even if we disagree with certain provisions concerning the amount and taxation of members' remuneration. it was necessary to improve the readability of the members' compensation system, but the proposed text does not seem to us to fully meet this imperative. the french socialist delegation therefore wished to amend the text by voting on amendment 8 to article 7 of the draft statute, an amendment which it had tabled with other political groups. in our view, an intelligent implementation of this principle implies that benefits should be adapted to the differences in living standards between member states, even if some inequalities need to be corrected. we regret that this amendment was not adopted. in the current context, an increase in the allowances of members of the european parliament is likely to be extremely unwelcome, at a time when the legitimacy of the pay gap between the economic and political elites and the rest of the population is in question.
in writing. - under the new article 190 (5) of the ec treaty, introduced by the treaty of nice, our parliament has just prepared a draft unified statute for members of the european parliament, which should be submitted to the council for decision by qualified majority, and no longer by unanimity. the text deals with a number of technical questions which had to be settled in any event within the framework of the autonomy granted to the european parliament to organise its proper internal functioning. but it also goes much further by introducing a statute which unifies all aspects of the member's situation at european level and cuts essential links with his or her country of origin, including remuneration. we have said it a hundred times, the member of the european parliament must be paid - as today - by the citizens of his country, who elected him and whom he is supposed to represent. the current approach of the european parliament implicitly corresponds to the objective of establishing a super-state, where meps would represent the union as a whole, and not the country that elected them. this is a fundamental change, albeit a surreptitious one, of which our electorate is once again unaware. we refused to vote on this bill out of loyalty to them.
in writing. - at a time when the peoples of europe are facing so many difficulties (unemployment, insecurity, precariousness, etc.), i am not convinced that they will appreciate the value of parliament's determination to adopt its uniform statute for members of the european parliament. i think this is a completely secondary concern, for both material and ideological reasons. as regards the material aspect, there is no point in going into it at length, but i consider it indecent to take this opportunity to give meps a whole series of exorbitant perks and privileges. the ideological aspect is clear: the primary objective of this status is to completely detach the elected representative from his or her home state. even though we, the representatives of our respective peoples, are legally in this parliament, we are presented as representatives of a mythical european people, in other words, the uprooted. all this is part of the logic under which this parliament once voted in favour of a uniform electoral procedure, the principle of transnational electoral constituencies or european political parties. this report proves once again that euro-federalism is far from the reality of the peoples.
in writing. - since my election to the european parliament i have heard a great deal about the status of members. i think that our colleague mr rothley and the whole legal affairs committee have spent a lot of time and energy on this, too much in my opinion, because, as with the statute for european political parties, i have the impression that it is a lot of money. these are not the great democratic advances that will bring the european union closer to its citizens. what is the point of these proposals which amend a text of superior legal value and which will therefore remain inapplicable? what is the purpose of this attempt at uniformity which creates a gap between the elected representatives of the present 15 member states, the new and the old, and those of the 10 states which will join us in a year's time? many want status to improve an image tarnished by the abuses of a few. unfortunately, nothing in this statute can be considered as an effective improvement in transparency. on the other hand, if we offer the representatives of the peoples of the member states a european system which derogates from national rights, we will only widen the gap which we are trying to bridge. that is why i voted against this draft statute.
in writing. - we voted against the mann report firstly because it calls for the complete 'communitisation' of the european union's trade policy, which would be harmful as i said in yesterday's debate. but we also reject this report because of the commercial strategy it advocates, which we believe is wrong on at least two important points. first, it makes it quite clear that the objective of opening up international trade is to lead to global integration, including 'regulatory convergence'. while it is possible to support the idea of increased trade for the benefit of all, it must also be added - which is not stated in the report - that each country, or each regional area, has the right to protect its model of society. secondly, it is far too lenient towards the european union's trade policy, and in particular its adoption of all sorts of free trade areas. these areas are useful if they reflect the desire for controlled openness. but in reality, as far as europe is concerned, they are so numerous and so intertwined that no one knows their real effects and that they are rather becoming a cause of uncontrolled trade relations.
in writing. - through a commercial strategy, is it a certain world view that prevails: pure trade liberalization leading to the aggravation of inequalities or the fight for real development? however, as the mann report reiterates, the rationale behind the establishment of regional free trade areas (ftas) is essentially to ensure political and economic stability for the eu with the countries concerned (the 'strategic geopolitical interests') so that nothing interferes with the sacred free movement of goods, services and capital. but what about people's access to fundamental rights? what about an assessment of the social, environmental, cultural and economic consequences of these liberalisations? what about genuine cooperation on equal terms and respecting the specificities of each partner? the wto rules should not police the eu's still privileged relations with its partners. the eu cannot reduce its policy towards entire countries and regions to the prospect of free trade, as is too often the case in the mediterranean, for example, when there is an urgent need to establish a genuine political dialogue and to build economic and social cooperation free of any conception of domination.
in writing. - with mr piétrasanta's report, the european parliament must give its opinion on the state of relations between europe and its mediterranean partners. this report raises the fundamental issues underlying the partnership and provides relevant answers to which i subscribe, including the need to emphasise the political dimension of the euro-mediterranean partnership to promote democratisation and peace, support for mediterranean civil societies, the systematic integration of the issue of human rights in monitoring, the establishment of a genuine euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly at the next euromed ministerial conference in naples in december 2003. i will vote in favour of this report to strongly support the integration of these objectives into the meda programme. but this programme is not enough today to summarise the relations between the eu and its mediterranean partners. indeed, no additional resources are currently envisaged (for 2003, the meda regional financing plan will have €32 million and the 'euro-mediterranean investment and partnership facility' €25 million), while the disproportion between europe's financial effort for the ten new members and its commitment to the mediterranean is spectacular, if not scandalous: €185 per capita aid for the east, half a euro per head for the mediterranean. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - the eu-us agreements on judicial cooperation in criminal matters and extradition are absolutely necessary, particularly in the fight against terrorism. however, they raise for the first time the question of the interpretation of articles 38 and 24 of the eu treaty, introduced by the treaty of nice, concerning the conclusion of international agreements by the european union in the fields of the second and third pillars. these articles were drafted and adopted with culpable negligence, despite the warnings i had given in my counter-report on the treaty of nice. we are now seeing the consequences: national parliaments once had the right to ratify such international conventions, but now they lose it, without the european parliament gaining an equivalent right. it is true that the states are now seeking to regain national powers of review through the 'constitutional reserve' which may give them the opportunity to come back before their national parliaments. but it is a very imperfect solution. this is the result of badly negotiated treaties. the convention on the future of europe should correct this and bring national parliaments back into the game. unfortunately, it seems to be going the other way.
in writing. - while this agreement could have been a real step forward in the fight against major international crime and terrorism, this parliament thinks it useful to attach extravagant conditions and humiliating considerations to its support for the united states! the reservations about the lack of democratic control or the requirement of a reference to the charter of fundamental rights seem almost quaint in the light of the serious accusations against the united states. it is almost like a dream to read that the judicial system of some states in the united states does not offer the same level of guarantees as the measures of the european court of human rights and the eu are intended to provide for the member states of the european union! and what about these comments about the inappropriateness of an agreement with the united states, when several citizens of the union are being held at the military base in guantanamo illegally and without any guarantee of a fair trial. when it reaches such proportions and results in such absurdities - how can terrorists be equated with ordinary prisoners? - evangelicalism borders on stupidity.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a double rapporteur, i shall begin, if you will allow me, by presenting the report on the reform of the cereals com adopted by a very large majority in our committee on agriculture and rural development, and then proceed with the presentation of my second report, also adopted by a very large majority, on the reform of the dried fodder com. let us start with the cereals com. in its reform proposal, the european commission, completely departing from the framework of the mid-term review of agenda 2000, envisaged a real dismantling of all the essential constituent elements of the cmc. what are the commission's proposals? firstly, the reduction, or rather the continuation of the reduction, of the intervention price until it is below the cost price, which is an approach that is both uneconomic and unsustainable. then, the abolition of monthly increases. secondly, the abolition of intervention for rye, the abolition of the minimum price for starch potatoes, the abolition of production refunds for starch. the committee on agriculture and rural development considered that this dismantling of the oldest and most emblematic of the common market organisations was neither appropriate nor justified. as regards the intervention price, i, as rapporteur, had proposed that account be taken of inflation, which has been at 25.5% since the 1992 reform and which brings the actual fall in internal cereals prices, in real terms, to 56%. the intervention price for cereals, it should be recalled, is an index of the income of hundreds of thousands of farmers. our committee did not want a further fall, which is not justified by anything, not even by the evolution of world prices, which the commission itself believes will rise in the coming years. the absence of the price reductions recommended by our committee does not call for any financial compensation and therefore renders the degressive approach pointless. as regards the monthly increases, our committee on agriculture and rural development wanted to point out that they correspond to a real economic and financial burden, that of storage, including the modernisation of silos and their updating to standards, particularly in terms of safety, and that their abolition would amount to an additional, uncompensated, reduction in the intervention price. consequently, consistency required that the two commission proposals concerning the intervention price and the monthly increases be treated in the same way. as regards rye, for which there is a real problem of surpluses, we propose to reduce the amounts allocated to intervention so that in future the cultivation of this cereal can be concentrated in regions where it is the last line of defence before the barren and where no profitable alternative exists. as regards starch and potato starch, commissioner, we find it difficult to understand the european commission's insistence on wanting to abolish the mechanisms that allow european industry to compete on equal terms with imports. this is a real gift to the starch producers of third countries, without any counterpart for the european union. the proposals of the committee on agriculture and rural development therefore do not go in the direction of the negative measures put forward by the commission, which do not seem to us to offer any positive development prospects for the cereals sector. now, if you will, let us turn to the common organization of the market in dried fodder. i have never before seen a statement of reasons for a proposal from the european commission based on such weak arguments. on the basis of an outdated remark in a report by the court of auditors, the executive commission intended to abolish this common organisation of the market as from the 2008/09 marketing year on the grounds that, and i quote the court of auditors' report: 'this production is based mainly on the use of fossil fuels for dehydration and, in some member states, on the use of irrigation'. what a light-hearted and careless way of putting the future of an entire industry in question on such a thin foundation! and not just any sector, a sector which provides 15% of the forage protein produced in the community, a sector which concerns 150 000 producers and 500 000 hectares, a sector which, for its dehydration component, consists of 350 units for processing and packaging fodder, the majority of which are owned by farmers in the form of cooperatives, and which concerns no less than 15 000 jobs. have you calculated, commissioner, the amount of public rural development budgets that would have to be mobilised to maintain the activity and jobs in rural areas that the euthanasia of this sector would destroy? our committee on agriculture therefore had no difficulty in convincing itself that, in the context of the union's shortage of fodder protein, it would be completely irresponsible to abolish aid for dried fodder. if parliament adopts the report proposed to it by its committee on agriculture, it will clearly reaffirm the position it had already adopted in the stevenson report, which called on the commission to find and quickly put in place the means necessary to reduce this very serious handicap, this strategic dependence, this monstrous deficit in vegetable protein which reaches more than 75% of our needs. the americans, i would remind you, did not have the courage and did not hesitate to introduce, after the blair house agreements, direct aid for soybeans without the wto getting upset. our committee on agriculture also considered that the environmental impact of dried fodder could not be limited to a vague static consideration of the consumption of fossil fuels. if all economic activities which use fossil fuels were to be eliminated, you would have had to walk from brussels, commissioner. by contrast, alfalfa, which accounts for more than 80% of dried fodder production in the union, has outstanding qualities in two key areas - soil renewal and the economics of plant protection products. in addition, no alfalfa varieties are genetically modified in europe. this production, which ensures that the feed produced is perfectly traceable, thus replaces imports, which raise many questions about gmos. as for dehydration, the use of fossil fuels has already been significantly reduced in the past years. but it is true that there is still room for improvement. we therefore propose, in agreement with the industry, the conclusion of progress contracts through which dehydration units can commit themselves to improving their performance, their yield and their energy balance. we believe it is more constructive to introduce eco-conditionality schemes for this sector than to withdraw all aid. finally, our committee felt that further agronomic and environmental progress could be made by this profession in this sector. this is why we propose the creation of a research fund funded by a small levy on the aid allocated to the sector. these, mr president, commissioner, seem to us to be the positive directions in which the executive commission should move, thus offering a particularly sensitive and strategic sector a very different perspective from the destruction, without any other form of trial, of a common market organization which has so far managed to preserve one of the few sectors available to the union in the field of plant proteins.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, we have gone from a mid-term review of the agenda 2000 cap to a reform valid until 2013, in other words for ten years. it is therefore important that we do not make mistakes in our fundamental choices. in this context, commissioner, you have proposed two major objectives, the multifunctionality and competitiveness of agriculture, backed up by the desire to strengthen the european union's room for manoeuvre in the wto negotiations. i would therefore like, on behalf of my group, to support the promotion of multifunctional agriculture to meet the expectations of our society and to stress the adequacy of resources, the conditionality of aid and the strengthening of actions under the second pillar. i would point out, however, that the rapporteur, mr cunha, had the relevant idea of emphasising the modulation of aid rather than retaining your combination of degressivity and modulation, which is complicated, administratively burdensome and would leave little resources for the rural pillar. turning now to the competitiveness objective which, in your view, leads to lower prices for cereals and milk, i would like to point out that the application of multi-functionality will generally lead to an increase in production costs, while at the same time direct aid to farms will fall in the 15 member states. in this context, it would be unwise to follow your recommendations, especially since the notion of the export vocation of agricultural europe must be recast, it seems to me, to take account of the new market of 450 million consumers that we will soon be creating. as for decoupling of aid, which is a miracle solution for you, commissioner, it is better to consider it in a partial and gradual way, in order to put the union in a better negotiating position at the wto, but also to be able to take stock of a first step before going any further. the pse, my group, is therefore putting forward an amendment to increase decoupling to 50% on arable crops and male bovine animals from the first implementation. this is the solution which combines boldness and prudence and for which i ask all my colleagues in the house to support it. finally, since it is legitimate to allocate farm aid more evenly between farmers, production and regions, my group fully supports amendment no 61 in the cunha report. the amendment calls for multifunctional appropriations to be allocated according to the criteria of area and employment as from 2007. in sum, i think that we, mr commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, have made informed and judicious proposals, in the absence of being able to take part in the codecision procedure. i therefore want to end by welcoming the excellent report by mr cunha, which forms the basis of the debate, and those of the other rapporteurs who consistently reject it.
- mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the mid-term review was a great adventure and it is not a bad thing that we, the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development, have reached a compromise which, i think, could satisfy the farmers. we wanted the political guidelines to be readable by all and that is why we provided the cunha report with a clear preamble. for us greens, the positive aspect of this compromise is that it strengthens rural development. the serious improvement proposed today allows european farmers to retain the positive aspects of multi-functionality by strengthening rural development, with the modulation system making it possible to move from the first to the second pillar. i am thinking in particular of amendment no 12 to rule 44. this modulation proposal uses a territorial criterion for the application of different percentage points taking into account disadvantaged areas. as the rapporteur says in his explanatory statement, the objective must be to strengthen the structure of producer organizations. in addition, this amendment obliges the member states to commit themselves to rural development, since they will only receive 100% of the eaggf guarantee section amounts if they commit themselves to compulsory national co-financing. this will encourage states to properly finance all the social, food quality and environmental aspects of rural development. in this respect, the model of territorial exploitation contracts introduced by france was an excellent precursor. it should be noted, as this is essential for the future, that the member states can use this modulation to finance the national contribution to the installation - as necessary - of young farmers. similarly, states can choose - and we believe they should - to finance compensatory payments to less-favoured areas, as well as areas subject to environmental constraints or agro-environmental measures. all this without prejudice to the overall amount allocated by the state to the second pillar. this strengthening of rural development is therefore in the right direction for two reasons: the first is to strengthen good agricultural practices, more extensive practices, protecting consumer health, respecting the environment and biodiversity and producing good social added value; the second is to protect the rural world from the vagaries of aggressive trade liberalism advocated by the wto. thus, the multifunctional specificities of european agriculture, or the enhancement of products specific to a particular region, will be able to continue to be remunerated under the second pillar, which best protects small producers in disadvantaged areas. in addition, the difference in the rate of decline in direct payments between fragile areas, where it is 6%, and other areas, where it reaches 8%. this strengthening of the second pillar must, if it is to be fully effective, preserve the milk quotas which have proved their effectiveness in safeguarding mountain livestock. natural pastures must also be protected and strengthened, but in addition, we must continue to support fodder and, more generally, protein crops necessary for healthy and high-quality livestock farming - alfalfa mentioned by mr souchet - and maintain the necessary facilities. protein crops should therefore be able to be grown on all frozen land, since europe is in short supply in this area and the cultivation of plant proteins is beneficial for soil quality, the environment and the quality of animal feed. on the sensitive issue of decoupling, it was necessary to decide between those who wanted total decoupling and those who did not want anything. it seems to us that the compromise which is being made step by step opens up a perspective which everyone can accept.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i have only two minutes to speak, so i will get straight to the point and you will understand. mr fischler, two minutes to tell you everything i think of your proposal, which is in fact a total reform of the cap, is very short. what about the decoupage you're forcing on us? even the americans have come back from it. we could think about it. whether it is total or partial, fixed or decreasing, it will lead, firstly, to a division between farmers and citizens, secondly, to administrative burdens, not to mention the audits you have added, and thirdly, to land speculation. what about the transfer of rights? i've asked you three times! you still haven't answered me. maybe i'll have better luck today. what about the lack of future prospects not only for our young people but also for our farmers? what about your silence on community preference and border protection? what about the lack of information on the impact of your proposals? the studies were launched rather late. what about the spraying you have allowed us to do in the middle and less favoured areas? what about cross compliance and the 38 directives, some of which are the responsibility of the member states? what about the 1200 amendments that were tabled? the number of these people is proof that your proposal has satisfied no one, despite the goodwill of the rapporteurs, whom i welcome here. commissioner, your proposal is a disappointment to farmers. you've been completely deaf to their demands. they do not need a social worker, they are women and men who simply want to make a decent living from their work and production. (applause) i would like to thank
- commissioner fischler, you have a lot of talent, firstly in the perfect packaging of your reform. you call it a mid-term review, which is a mid-term liquidation. and you justify it with popular, i dare say populist clichés: animal welfare, sustainable development, food quality or environmental protection. in reality, rural development will not be sustainable, because young people will not settle down. as for quality, it will be the world's food that we will be aligning our prices with. but the technical assembly of your cap 2004 is also very talented. you're presenting it as a new development, thanks to decoupling. but already in 1992 farmers' incomes were decoupled from agricultural prices, and now direct aid is decoupled from agricultural production itself. the reform is basically summed up in the following: we pay the hand and the knife. but how long will we continue to pay out these decoupled, partially decoupled, modulated, controlled, audited and 'eco-conditioned' direct aids? and that's where you have a lot of talent, even a supreme, machiavellian talent. the cap is now 40 years old. your objective is to make it last for another 10 years, in 2013-2014, and all the curves stop in 2013. the cap is only funded until 2012. milk quotas are stopped around 2013-2014. in 2013, the majority of farmers who are now 50 years old will be retired. in the meantime, they're quiet for 10 years. and if they're quiet for 10 years, they'll be paid for 10 years, except for the young. so they have no reason to protest! and if they don't protest, there's no rioting in the countryside. if there are no disturbances in the countryside, the french, who are the main opponents of the reform, have no reason not to vote for it. and the united states itself, in cancun, will accept your reform with the group of 15, because it is a moratorium. as a result, the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure has been removed from the european constitution itself. consequently, parliament will have the final say on agricultural spending and here there is an ultra-liberal majority. therefore, here, before 2013, a majority will abolish decoupled, partially decoupled, modulated or non-modulated direct aids. and the european farmers will be eliminated because they will be in a market where the american farmers will be financially watered down. we shall then be left with a small-scale agriculture, which will necessarily be austrian. that is why, commissioner, you are the perfect man, you are the man of the hour, you are sissi the farmer.
- mr president, by accepting, even with a number of reservations, the logic of decoupling proposed by the european commission, the cunha report invites us to take a first step in the wrong direction. why would you do that? because decoupling, by introducing a radical cut-off between the farmer's remuneration and the act of production, would transform direct aids into rents linked to the land, fixed in their amount, constituting a kind of negative tax which is difficult to justify in the eyes of citizens and taxpayers, increasing the price of land in an undue and uneconomic way, thus making it more difficult for young people to enter the farming profession and to settle down. decoupling would also have negative consequences on the regional location of crops and would therefore be a factor of relocation rather than of land use planning. the decoupling is designed to improve our negotiating position at the wto, but it is difficult to see how the announcement of reform before the negotiations could give us more weight. finally, by removing any link between production and state aid, we are prohibiting any measures to guide and control the markets, which is the basis of all our coms. so we must abandon this crazy and useless idea of decoupling. total decoupling would be a total error and partial decoupling a partial error. partial decoupling would be an incomprehensible compromise, a bureaucratic monster and an unsustainable system. it would make a cap even more complex, which it is urgent to simplify. it would create a new cursor, the decoupling rate, which many hands would certainly move towards total decoupling at the expense of our agriculture, our independence and our food security.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, you are today to give your opinion on the various draft reports on the mid-term reform of the common agricultural policy. i will not go into the substance of the matter, but as chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development, i am fully aware of the comments, and even criticisms, that some of you may be tempted to make about the procedure chosen for the adoption of these various reports. unfortunately, we're running out of time, and i'm the first one to regret it. the aim of the presidency of the council was to obtain parliament's opinion before the end of june. the time we were given was short. we have therefore chosen to respond to this request, so that it cannot be said that the principle of consulting the european parliament is merely a brake on the discussions currently under way. indeed, at a time when the debate on the evolution of the european institutions is precisely about the competence of our assembly, any delay in the consultation procedure could have been interpreted as the impossibility for members of parliament to take up a dossier at arm's length and to give their opinion within the prescribed time limit. that is why we in the committee on agriculture adopted a procedure which allows us to respect both the timetable given to us by the council presidency, which is anxious to move this matter forward, and the rights of expression and amendment of the members of the committee on agriculture. we have achieved this thanks to the remarkable work of the staff of this committee and also of the coordinators. it seemed necessary, mr president, to explain the reasons why we adopted a working method dictated by the urgency of the situation and accelerated the work, while respecting the right of expression of our colleagues. for my part, i consider it to be the result of a compromise achieved thanks to the will of the members of the committee on agriculture to preserve the essential provisions on the management of agricultural markets provided for in the common agricultural policy, while allowing for a shift towards agriculture that is more concerned with the general interest. mr president-in-office of the council, make the right decisions now to guarantee a decent income and a future for our farming families.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, can the european union remain deaf to the expectations of society, which has been deeply affected by the food crises we have experienced in recent years? is it normal that 80% of agricultural aid is reserved for only 20% of farmers? can europe seriously exempt itself from a thorough reflection on a policy which represents practically half its budget, at the very moment when it is preparing to welcome ten new countries? you were right, commissioner, to prefer movement to the status quo, anticipation to waiting. your reform is courageous, because it breaks with the logic of incentives to production which it advocates through decoupling. it is ambitious, by reinforcing the multifunctional character of european agriculture. it is relevant in the light of the future wto deadlines and the forthcoming enlargement of europe. but it is also unfair, as its inspiration is exclusively continental and it does not take sufficient account of the diversity of regional situations, particularly with regard to production in the outermost regions. these regions have not yet reached the original cap objective of achieving a certain degree of agricultural self-sufficiency. their markets are far from saturated. they need incentives to develop their holdings. the proposed measures, if applied mechanically to the outermost regions, would undoubtedly put a brake on the dynamism we have seen in recent years. it is not a question of putting the outermost regions in a bubble, it is simply a question of taking their specificity into account. the legal basis is article 299 (2). the political will is still needed. the committee on agriculture and rural development of the european parliament took up its responsibilities by adopting, on 21 may, an amendment which i proposed in order not to subject the outermost regions to the systematic and mechanical application of the reform. the commission and the council must now take theirs. while we must learn from history and adapt our agricultural policy to the challenges of the 21st century, it would be intolerable if, in the name of generous principles, this reform were to be the death knell of the union's most fragile farms.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, the greek presidency will have been marked by particularly structural events for the future of the union, such as the signing of the treaty of accession of ten new countries and the probable conclusion of the work of the convention. but i want to focus on a third major event, which transcends all the others: the union's identity crisis has burst into flames. what do we want to do together? this existential question remains more than ever unanswered. this is true of our ambitions within the union. do we really want to set ourselves the objective, as the convention bureau proposes to inscribe in the future constitution of the union, of balanced economic growth and social justice, full employment, a high standard of living, social protection, equal opportunities for all? in that case, why refuse to open the debate on a change in the european central bank's priorities? nor price stability at a time when recession is in danger, but securing jobs, training and pensions for all, financing useful infrastructure, such as large-scale railways, and more generally genuinely fair and sustainable development. why confine public services to the precarious status of an exception to the free competition rule, instead of making the promotion of high-quality services of general interest a priority of the union as such, and thus appearing in the constitution? why should we continue to exclude any prospect of taxing capital movements and financial income? this kind of blatant contradiction between the affirmation of objectives that meet expectations and the refusal of the means to achieve them is at the heart of the crisis of confidence of our citizens in the european institutions. what do we really want? we must answer frankly and take responsibility for our choices so that europeans can weigh in on the debate in full knowledge of the facts. as albert camus wrote, "to call things by their wrong names is to add to the misery of the world". this identity crisis is equally evident in the union's role in the world. we've known that since the war on iraq. before the conflict, the dissenting but frank voices at least allowed our public opinion to see clearly and to be involved in this confrontation of options. they have done so spectacularly and so closely, from west to west, that we see this as a break in the history of the union, the only hope for future change. on the other hand, since the demonstration of strength by the world superpower, in defiance of the law and the will of the international community, everything seems to be happening as if the european union were rebuilding its unity on the basis of resigned or enthusiastic subordination to the strongest. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the question of the future of the european union, and the council has been asked to take a decision on the future of the european union. we received confirmation this morning, and i regret it. if george bush decides to monopolize the management of the middle east road map, with all the risks inherent in his complicity with sharon and his reservations about the very substance of the commitments to be made, the european union, which is the co-initiator of this fragile hope for peace, is thrown off the stage without a hitch. the united states rejects the international criminal court, maintains exceptional military courts, and, as mr enrique barón crespo has pointed out, holds european citizens in a zone of non-absolute law at guantanamo, but the council is preparing an extradition and mutual legal assistance agreement with washington, turning a blind eye to all these abuses of the law. if our american partners renew the offensive to lift the moratorium on gmos in the name of defending, i quote, 'the interests of american agriculture', europe immediately begins to waver, while being careful not to apply the trade retaliatory measures authorised by the wto itself against the ill-considered tax advantages granted to exporters across the atlantic. for all these reasons, my group is of the opinion, mr president, that the greek presidency would be doing europe a service by clearly putting the question of what we want to do together and what means we are using to achieve this on the table of the european council in thessaloniki. in any case, in our societies, the question is now being asked and that is a very good thing. i quoted a french author earlier. i will conclude with a german quote from the great hölderlin: "where danger increases, salvation also increases". the danger to europe is clear. let us be the ones who try to save it.
- mr president, at the european council in thessaloniki on 20 and 21 june, the president of the convention should give his conclusions, but he will no doubt ask for a prolongation of the work. i think we should consider this proposal with caution. it is essential that governments do not get caught between a delayed date for the conclusion of the convention and an unalterable deadline for the end of the igc. the convention is an interesting forum for discussion, but the fact remains that only democratically responsible governments should have the last word at the intergovernmental conference and should not be tied up in advance. in this respect, we strongly disagree with the commission's request, expressed earlier, that the convention should submit to the council a single text without any alternative. this means that the council would not have freedom of choice, that democratic power would be transferred from the governments to a convention without democratic legitimacy. we do not want that europe. we want the opposite: to re-root europe in its nations. the work of the convention - to draft a complete european constitution - is indeed enormous, but it is the convention that has chosen to do so. the mandate given by the council of nice did not speak of drafting a constitution and that of laeken mentioned this possibility only conditionally and in the long term, i.e. not for the time being. we think those councils were right. europe is not built to adopt the constitution of a super-state and that is why the convention is currently facing so many difficulties. the result is a voluminous document, difficult to master, full of problems, which will have to be refocused on the real priority for europe at the moment, the one that has been too much neglected since the beginning at the convention: better control by national democracies. this may require a return to the original community method, now largely forgotten, which was based on two pillars: the pillar of encouraging cooperation, in particular with the commission, and the pillar of respect for national sovereignty, in particular with the council. the fundamental flaw in the construction of europe today is the weakening of this second pillar. it is now necessary to strengthen it if we are to re-establish the link with the peoples, with national democracies. in this respect, the convention is steadily going backwards. the control of subsidiarity by the national parliaments has been stripped of its meaning. the peoples' congress is gone. the commission is strongly opposed to the permanent presidency of the council. we must put an end to this continuous and disastrous undermining of national democracies by rehabilitating the council and giving national parliaments a right of veto.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in our debate, i have a minute on behalf of my delegation to do three things. first, to welcome and congratulate the greek presidency, which, in a busy and difficult period for europe, has done a great job, demonstrating once again that there is no proportionality between the size of a country and the quality of its european presidency. secondly, to note that the management of the major european and world events of this semester has shown the limits of an economic and liberal europe in its foundations, and too little democratic in its functioning. last but not least, to call once again for political reflection on a different europe, a civic and social europe, which is enriched by its diversity, rather than a europe that seeks to make it disappear. we need a europe that focuses its action on the real problems of its citizens, in the first place employment and unemployment, public services and social europe, the means of internal and external security, a daily life that is easier for european citizens in all its aspects. in sum, as mr francis wurtz has shown, but as mr barón crespo and many representatives of smaller groups have also asked, we need a europe of europeans and citizens.
- mr president, i fully support your decision to refer the matter to the legal affairs committee. i believe that parliamentary immunity does not place the parliamentarian above the law, but that it is a guarantee against the abusive prosecutions that the executive, through prosecutors, could actually bring. the problem arises, mr president: what happens when, abusing the concept of flagrant crime, a state clearly violates the parliamentary immunity of a member of this parliament and ends up, through a series of criminal proceedings, by depriving him of his mandate. this was the case for jean-marie le pen: whatever one thinks of mr le pen's views, the fact is that the french government did not request the lifting of his immunity before initiating a criminal procedure, which was first contraventional and then artificially corrected in order to deprive him of his mandate. i think that in such a case our parliament would be honoured to refuse to give effect to the criminal sanctions and their indirect consequences which are imposed in such circumstances.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have all read the commission's position. there are two possibilities here, and i do not know whether, for once in this chamber, reason can prevail. (various movements) calm down, please! that's very funny. every time parliament takes a position, the commission is asked to give it serious thought. when the commission takes a position, i ask that we give serious thought to what the commission has written, because we are constantly asking the council and the commission to do so! that's the reason. it's very simple. (applause) the commission has written to us in black and white that we have decided to refer the matter back to committee. (the president called on the speaker to move on to the point of order on which he asked to speak) this is not a procedural motion, mr president, it is a request for referral back to committee under rule 144. i would therefore like to continue, so that we do not say that we did not know everything. the council, which is having difficulty reaching an agreement, will choose exactly the commission's argument for saying no to a single statute, because there are countries which do not want a single statute for members. that is why i am asking for a referral back to committee, so that the article on immunity can be changed, and we can have a chance of having a single statute. all those who want to put this text before the council, which cannot say yes or no, since this is a procedure for the council to give its assent, take responsibility before the european public opinion for not wanting a european status! (parliament adopted the resolution) so i'm asking for a committee to review the matter.
in writing. - the fishing industry is apparently going through a period of calm. with the fisheries reform negotiations now over, the industry is taking stock of the past 18 months. as regards state aid, while the commission had been pushing for the end of state aid as early as december 2002, negotiations led to the maintenance of this scheme until december 2004. if the fishermen are warned, the difficulties are not overcome. in brittany, nearly 75% of the fleet is expected to be replaced. the use of new, safe boats with technical facilities to facilitate the work of seafarers should be widespread. but if the battle for public aid is stopped for now at community level, it will soon begin at international level. the commission has put forward a proposal to the wto to ban all subsidies in order to prevent overcapacity in the fisheries sector under the pretext of maintaining its viability. as regards recovery plans, the example is the cod recovery plan in scotland. the consequences are well known: bankruptcy of some companies that can no longer fish, increased fishing pressure on other species and other places, greater pressure on markets. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - the vote on 9 april was a real attempt to forcefully undermine community law. by abusing the right to reduce the number of annual sessions for 2004 from 12 to 10, a coalition of parliamentarians long known for their antipathy towards 'strasbourg, seat of the european parliament' has seriously undermined the treaties and, not least, the status of this city as a symbol of franco-german reconciliation. the time has now come to redress what can only be called an anti-strasbourg plot. to this end, my group supported, in the conference of presidents, the proposal to add an extra week to the draft 2004 calendar. this is the only initiative which is in line with the letter and spirit of the treaties. but, in addition, on the eve of this crucial deadline of enlargement, the european parliament must, by the magnitude of its vote, politically demonstrate its desire to remain in strasbourg.
in writing. - as expected, the commission has just delivered a favourable opinion on the draft statute for members of the european parliament voted on yesterday, even proposing to go further on one point: it calls for the exclusive taxation of members of the european parliament in the name of a principle of equal treatment which has no place here. the members of the european parliament are the representatives of their respective countries and we believe that they should be subject to the same taxes as their fellow citizens. i therefore voted 'no' to the referral of this draft to the council. i maintain that the status of member of the european parliament must be national, even if each country delegates to the european parliament the decision on a few well-defined questions which may concern the internal functioning of the assembly. so far, the french government has not heard us. we still hope that he will react, so as not to fall into the nice scenario: despite our warnings, his predecessor had then accepted a drastic reduction in the number of french meps, which everyone is now complaining about. you should have seen it coming.
in writing. - unlike my group, i decided to abstain on this report. the main reason is the decision to increase the salary of meps considerably. in the present political and social context, in the whole of europe and not only in france, this decision is unacceptable and unjustifiable. we are first and foremost representatives of the people and our priority is to promote the interests of our citizens and to fulfil their expectations of europe, particularly in terms of democratisation. i decided to abstain and not vote against the report because i believe that the adoption of a single statute for members is a positive signal towards a closer union, a truly shared destiny, the achievement of the goal of equality. however, i would have preferred that this objective of harmonising wages - from the top - could be a priority for european legislators and concern our fellow citizens first and foremost through the adoption of a european minimum wage.
in writing. - contrary to the decision of my political group, i voted in favour of the amendments tabled by group 3. i thought it was essential to support amendment no 1, because it introduces the reference to the precautionary principle. although i understand the rapporteur's wish, whose work and great availability i would like to emphasize, to conclude this legislative procedure at second reading, i cannot possibly vote against the reference to the precautionary principle. i believe that this is fundamental and necessary for a subject as sensitive and far from settled as genetically modified organisms. the council refused to include this reference to the precautionary principle, which is made in a recital: that is its decision and i respect it. but i do not think that the european parliament should take over from the council the refusal to refer to the precautionary principle, which is, moreover, covered by community legislation. it is giving gmos a special place, it is setting a precedent, which other sectors could use to challenge certain proposals and policy guidelines in the future. it is a step backwards by denying a principle which is nevertheless an advance.
in writing. - we strongly endorsed the piecyk report and the new commission proposal to speed up the introduction of double-hulled tankers and the withdrawal of single-hulled tankers, while tightening safety requirements. this text should have been adopted long ago; philippe de villiers had asked for it. but after the erika disaster in 1999, the commission had let itself be dragged along by the international maritime organisation (imo) on the routes to be crossed, and the council, like the european parliament, had been weak enough to follow suit. it took another shipwreck, the prestige, to wake everyone up. today's text is healthier. however, it should be extended not only to vessels flying the flag of a member state or calling at one of our ports, but also to any oil tanker transiting through our economic zone. the weather in the double hulls will also require close supervision. in addition, as i said during the debate on environmental liability at the last session, the insufficient compensation capacity of fipol must be addressed and a compulsory insurance scheme based on the polluter-pays principle must be put in place as a matter of urgency.
in writing. - what a waste of time. it has been known since december 1999, since the sinking of the erika and its dramatic economic, social and environmental consequences, that the withdrawal of single-hull tankers was inevitable and urgent. i had called, in the wake of the sinking of the erika, for a timetable to be drawn up for the complete elimination of single-hull oil tankers by 2010. i was told that it was impossible. and now it's suddenly possible the day after the prestige went down. however, to be effective, this measure must not remain confined to the union but be generalised at international level through the who. this is what the states most threatened by the black tides, france in the first place, must now work towards with determination, without hesitation, as france and spain did in malaga, the pressure of unilateralism.
in writing. - i share the rapporteur's concern to clean up the fleet of vessels carrying dangerous goods. the commission itself admits that more than 4 000 vessels are considered to be at risk. it is urgent to require shipowners to withdraw these garbage vessels and to comply with stricter technical and social standards. however, in view of the recent shipwrecks of the erika and the prestige, i consider that the european union is still too timid in the necessary fight against maritime insecurity. the proposed deadlines are still unsatisfactory: the minimum age for sailing on the prestige class (category 1) oil tankers is set at 23 years from 2005; for category 3 and 2 ships (generally built between 1982 and 1986), the age limit is 28 years from 2010. even with these measures, the risk of disaster remains. instead, all dangerous ships should have been banned from navigation and public policy should have shifted production from shipyards to the construction and development of modern and safe ships. the european union should have been given new tools in its fight against the complacency system. but above all, member states should make a real commitment to applying existing legislation. without this minimum, all prescriptions sound like wishful thinking.
- we have finished the explanation of vote. (the sitting was suspended at 1.15 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
- mr president, as others have already said, mr oostlander's report has been substantially amended in committee and no doubt improved in the direction of greater balance. it is only natural that a report such as this would highlight a number of shortcomings and failures, particularly in relation to human rights and civil liberties. i think we can only follow the rapporteur on all these points. i shall, however, follow him less closely in a personal direction, which is covered by the amendments to a large extent, but which is underlying and sometimes explicit: mr oostlander's allergy, in my view, to secularism and the secular idea. it appears in his brief oral presentation, in which he presents what he calls the political philosophy of turkey and chronologically equates it with totalitarianism, which is one of the most monstrous forms of political oppression that europe has engendered. kemalism was not of this nature and did not claim these models, mr oostlander. kemalism, which was undoubtedly a form of enlightened despotism, set itself the task of accelerating the modernization of turkey, taking inspiration, to a significant extent, from the democratic models of western europe, and in particular from the model of separation of church and state and the model of republican secularism. you see, mr oostlander, if today, in its candidacy - which naturally raises debate and even contradictory debate - turkey can claim a positive historical heritage, it is precisely thanks to this effort to integrate our european secularism into a muslim society. this is the challenge, as has been said, one of the challenges of the 21st century. i do not think that we should adopt the sad attitude you have expressed - and which is reflected in recital g of your report - towards this secular idea which our europe demands and which, in my view, is very strongly expressed in the charter of fundamental rights which we have accepted. on the contrary, you must accept this secular idea more positively and appreciate it more. mr president, turkey was meant to be a candidate. i think it will be for a while, because progress is slow and we have to keep a close eye on it. however, beyond the school formula 'there is progress, but we can and must do better', it is necessary to realize that turkey's application for membership of the european union represents for this country the equivalent of what the united states experienced at the end of the 19th century with the notion of the frontier. this kind of pioneering, mobilizing front, which gives movement to go further. in this respect, it should be encouraged. (applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, i did not know that idealism was the dominant philosophy in the european parliament. it is not enough to say day, night and morning that we want a transatlantic relationship to be one. the first transatlantic relationship was determined by the reality of the opposition - this is an idea expressed by mr patten at the end of his speech - between communist totalitarianism and the west. this situation died with the collapse of communism. so if we want transatlantic relations, we must redefine them, we must ask ourselves whether the united states and europe today necessarily have the same interests. is it compulsory as it was in the communist era? once the question is asked, it is clear that, geostrategically, economically, the americans and the europeans do not share the same vision and do not have the same interests. on this basis, a new transatlantic relationship cannot be a charm - we want it, we want it, we want it - but it must be defined in a totally new way. let's take a very simple example. today we have the euro. if we are sincere, the euro is a currency that separates europe from the united states, because the euro is the first currency competing with the dollar. so, economically, strategically, we have different interests and if we want to get out of the economic slump, if we want to get a revival through europe, we must at some point ask, at the global level, a question that is central to europe: are we doomed to pay our energy bills, our oil bills, in dollars? what bible says we have to buy oil or gas from russia, saudi arabia, iran, by paying in dollars? we must have the strategic, economic will to make the euro a safe haven currency so that there is money to enable us to revive our economy, as the americans do today - 8 billion dollars a day: they need investments to pay their debts. we must therefore strengthen the euro as a safe haven currency competing with the dollar. ladies and gentlemen, if you want to discuss transatlantic relations, have the courage to put this problem to the americans. that's where the real debate is. if we do not have our own doctrine on all strategic problems, on all military problems, on our worldview, on what we want in the world, we will not achieve a new transatlantic relationship. we must be sure to define our interests and then we can talk to the americans.
- madam president, just a few hours after the g8 meeting in evian, which is considered illegitimate by an increasing number of citizens, it is impossible in my view to think about the transatlantic partnership without answering a number of questions. i'll just take a look at some of them. first, there is iraq. can we consider the war over, now that the united states has obtained full power in this country with the blessing of europe? should we engage in a fight against terrorism guided by the american war vision which tends to domination without sharing and which only feeds dangers? the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. is it still necessary to give in to bush's demands and to throw down what remains of the european social model, for example, in the matter of pensions, thus going against the massive opposition expressed in the strong mobilizations in france and austria? finally, what good is the wto conference in cancun if the eu does not oppose the us's persistent blockade, particularly on access to generic medicines for poor countries? the european union is at a crossroads: either it takes refuge behind the strategic doctrine of 'a new american century' or it chooses a truly independent policy. and how, in this case, can we achieve this without meeting the enormous expectations in the south, without getting rid of the ultra-liberal logic that aggravates inequalities and destroys all attempts at development? let us listen to the people of europe. they reject a vassal and cold europe, they hope and expect an autonomous and responsible europe, acting in the general interest of a safer world because it is more humane.
- madam president, commissioner, i believe that, as has been said before, it is desirable that the europeans and the americans should be able to act in partnership. it's obvious. however, this rhetoric of partnership must not be used to evade the choices europe has to make now and the difficulty we face. because, contrary to what some colleagues have said, it is not the europeans who have eroded the nature of the historical ties which bind us to the united states of america. we are dealing with a very particular administration, which, from the very beginning, was extremely unilateralist, but not particularly interventionist, and within which one component used the trauma of 9/11 to impose its agenda, which was, by the way, dated earlier and is both a unilateralist and extremely interventionist agenda. from this point on, europe faces a choice. or they think that, apart from the american will, given the weight of the united states in the world, there is nothing to be done. so all that remains is to submit, to accompany, including in the lies and ridicule of those who wanted to make us believe that the justification for the intervention in iraq was the imminence of a threat about weapons of mass destruction. in this case, i understand the proposal put forward by mr elles for a free trade area, this new version of the transatlantic market place. but we must realise that this would mean, for example, abandoning the union's common external trade policy. why would you do that? because this vast market will in fact be an annexation of the european economic area by the united states. the decision center would be in washington. the americans are not in favour of sharing decisions with europe in this respect. or, on the contrary, we think that europe has something to say to the world, that it has a vision to promote of a law-based order, of a more just order in north-south relations, because we think that this is also an element of a safer world order for all peoples. in this case, it is not time to fall into line, but to affirm a common foreign and defence policy. however, there is also a paradox here when mr elles says that we need a strengthened foreign and defence policy and at the same time, in a certain way, we must accept to submit to the americans. i believe that if we believe that there are reasons to promote the rome statute and an international criminal court, to promote the kyoto accords, to promote the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, we must assume independence and base the relationship between europe and the united states on this independence, which our american friends must accept, because this administration will not last forever and i believe that friendship will eventually prevail.
- the report (a5-0143/2003) by mrs smet, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the analysis of the open method of coordination in the fields of employment and social affairs and future prospects (ini) and - the oral question (o-0044/2003 - b5-0096/2003), by mr rocard, on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, to the commission, on the application of the open method of coordination.
- thank you, mrs stauner. - thank you. i have received, at the end of this debate, a motion for a resolution on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, pursuant to rule 42 of the rules of procedure. see minutes of the sitting. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0150/2003) by mr menrad, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the communication from the commission to the council, the european parliament, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions - a framework for the promotion of financial participation by employees (com (2002) 364 - c5-0527/2002 - 2002/2243 (ini)).
- thank you, mr ettl. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0167/2003) by mrs fraisse, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, on 'women and sport' [2002/2280 (ini) ].
the rapporteur. - madam president, madam commissioner, i am happy to present my report this evening - in a rather empty chamber, you will admit it with me - because the issue of women and sport, which is the responsibility of both the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities and the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, is at the crossroads of my commitments in this parliament. it is an own-initiative report which, in short, deals with the foundations of our democracy, since sport itself has been one of the key elements in the construction of democracy since antiquity. i am glad that this report will be completed under the greek presidency. i would like to briefly recall the various contextual elements of this own-initiative report, as i proposed it at the outset. first, it must be acknowledged that there is a very wide disparity between the situations of men and women, girls and boys, in the matter of sport and access to sport. whether it is high-level sport or recreational sport. there is a disparity here which we are forced to acknowledge. secondly, sport is and remains a space for self-fulfilment, at all ages of life, and in this respect the issue of equal opportunities is of particular importance. thirdly, since there are disparities in situations, it is true that to give equal opportunities to little girls and boys, men and women and adolescents or young adults, it is necessary to take into account a rather difficult element: the disparity and asymmetry between the two sexes in relation to sport. some people will tell me that these findings are outdated. i would remind you that both the army and the police are required to organise competitions and to provide different performances for both sexes. this shows a kind of attempt, say, of equity between bodies that are not the same, to access the same opportunities. i have tried to explain this idea in particular in my recital m. it is very difficult, from different situations, to reach a situation of equality or balance, call it what you will. so, in my view, these three contextual elements have been the guiding principles behind the drafting of this report. i would remind you that a report on women and sport was presented to parliament 13 years ago. i had hoped to pioneer, but no, i must admit that others before me have raised this problem and i am glad of that. there are three areas where this equality of opportunity or self-realisation takes place: school, leisure and high-level sport. perhaps this is where i wanted to innovate in relation to the previous report. all three areas must be taken into account for the development of sport. schools are places of role models, places of education shared by boys and girls, and places where opportunities must be opened up rather than closed. all the professionals told me that the school plays a fundamental role in women's access to sport. the leisure area is for some - i would say especially for some - a luxury. in order to be able to exercise as a leisure activity, one must have the time, the means and the possibility of access to it. infrastructure for girls, adolescents, young women and women is much less important than for boys and men. the disparity is large given that for women who are already busy with their dual work and family lives, access to leisure sport is a luxury. that's a point i wanted to make. as for high-level sport, you have to know it first. it is not always easy to keep up with what is happening in women's top-level sport. the media don't always report it as they could, or as they should, or as we would like. in addition, there are health problems specific to women's high-level sports. hormonal imbalances and disorders can cause future difficulties in motherhood or premature aging. all the professionals have given me a lot of warning about these health problems. as one sociologist put it, contrary to popular belief, exercise is not necessarily good for health. finally, everyone stresses the need for women to be more involved in decision-making. it is also a fundamental element. in conclusion, i would like to say that i have been working a lot with the various political groups in recent times. i thank them for their availability. i also thank the greek presidency for organising a meeting on women and sport in thessaloniki on 8 march, which i attended. i would also like to thank the greek presidency for including my proposal for a 'women and sport' unit in its statement at the end of this meeting. i would also like to thank the ioc, which has been extremely helpful, and the european women and sport network (ews), which has been very helpful. the last idea i would like to express is in line with what everyone, all the professionals, have told me: please defend diversity in sport. this is our future. the report is called women and sport, but its objective is the mixing of men and women, girls and boys in this exercise which is a happiness and must remain a happiness for both sexes.
- thank you, mr karlsson. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon. (the sitting was closed at 11.15 p.m.) the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97).
- mr dell'alba, you're missing an episode because the rules have changed for a while. the minutes have been distributed in the early afternoon instead of in the morning for a few months now. the minutes will therefore be available to you at the beginning of this afternoon, in accordance with our rules of procedure.
- we take note of your statement.
- yes, colleague, this problem was already reported earlier this week. the authorities have been notified. we do everything we can, technically, to avoid this spamming, since that's how they say it in english. this is very unpleasant for all our colleagues.
- thank you for that.
- of course, mr president, i will pass on your request to the president of parliament. but i think the quaestors will also be called in to prevent this very regrettable inconvenience from happening again in the future.
- mr president, i regret to say that one of our colleagues is today being accused in a report by the highest french financial court, the court of auditors, which stigmatises the management of an anti-racist association: not only has it received special government funds, but it has also been used in a despicable way, particularly for personal purposes in the form of unpaid loans or other forms. as i am not in the habit of hiding my opinions, i will say that this is the case, among others - among others, but not exclusively - of our colleague fodé sylla. i am not a judge and i do not take these statements personally, but it seems to me that they are of such gravity, damaging the honour of one of our members, that in the absence of a committee of inquiry, our parliament should, with the agreement of the person concerned, constitute a jury of honour.
- mr gollnisch, in the absence of our colleague, mr fode sylla, who could have replied to us, even if only for personal reasons as provided for in our rules of procedure, i can only take note of your statement and move on to the next item on the agenda. composition of committees and delegations - documents received: see minutes.
- the next item is the report (a5-0159/2003) by mrs jöns, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, on breast cancer in the european union [2002/2279 (ini) ].
mr president, like you, i would like to greet our male colleagues in the house because, as mr mussa said, the pathology in question affects men too. because when this disease affects us, it affects our spouses, our families, our children. in addition, it is surrounded by a psychological climate which has an impact on the lives of those around us. the available data - even if they are difficult to compare, as our rapporteur points out, in the absence of uniform criteria - show that breast cancer is stagnating or increasing in different countries of the european union. this pathology is, as mentioned, one of the main causes of death among women aged 35 to 55, which is why early detection and comprehensive care of patients should be defined as european priorities. this is what mrs jöns' report tells us, which advocates the implementation of screening campaigns, carried out - and this is very, very important - in the framework of multidisciplinary units, which, if necessary, of course, allow medical care, but also psychological and social care, which is sometimes also an asset in treating the disease, by quality staff, during and after treatment. in france, a cancer steering committee published a report in january 2003, which recently led to the development of a national plan by the president of the republic to combat cancer, and which bears striking similarities to your report, both in terms of findings and objectives to be achieved. given the physical and psychological stresses of breast cancer treatment and to ensure an optimal quality of life for women, it is essential to act upstream to encourage women to undergo regular screening at all ages through appropriate information and prevention policies. this is why we cannot but agree with the need to coordinate national policies, to continue developing european guidelines for mammography, to intensify research and review the issue of gene patenting by the european patent office and to set up registries other than the existing national registries. the report by karin jöns, as adopted by the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, therefore seems to meet this objective. that is why the epp group decided to vote in favour of this report, because it shows a certain courage, i must say, and since we are fortunate to have a woman commissioner today and we know that the fifth framework programme has set up eur 400 million, why not make cancer, madam commissioner, a major european cause as from 2004? it would be a mobilizing response to the proposal for a conference made by mrs jöns.
- mr president, madam commissioner, we have here today a proposal for a regulation which is an indispensable and very important element, as well as a logical consequence of the effort to improve food safety undertaken since the various crises which we have unfortunately experienced in the food sector in europe. although - and i would like to remind you - the european food chain is one of the safest in the world, we felt it necessary to adopt provisions on traceability and labelling. all the decisions that are taken are a sign of the political will of the european parliament, but they are of no use if they are not properly implemented. in the field of food safety, as in many others, what is often lacking is effective enforcement of existing laws or regulations. i congratulate our rapporteur, mr schnellhardt, on the quality of his work on this subject, with the aim of establishing a rigorous monitoring system for products of european origin as well as for imported products. the new concept that has been much discussed in this house, the farm-to-table concept developed by the european commission, will only be fully satisfactory if there is continuous and sufficient monitoring of food placed on the market from production to consumption. to restore consumer confidence, consumers must be able to say to themselves when they buy meat or any other foodstuff that they can rely without fear on the information provided on the product label. the consumer must be able to be sure that the product he is going to consume is healthy. to do this, as our rapporteur has explained, it is essential to develop both independent official controls and to strengthen the own responsibility of the operators in the sector. i would like to stress the role of veterinarians and the necessary independence of inspection activities. we also need to use common sense in adopting regulations which take account of the size of the companies and do not penalise small farms, because we have this problem with smes. i am glad that amendments have been voted in this direction, just as i am glad that the commissioner has mentioned the need for flexibility. it is clear that these adjustments must not be made at the expense of consumer safety. the proper transmission of information and the regular updating of the lists of approved establishments will greatly facilitate controls and coordination between member states. i think that all of this is done with the aim of building consumer confidence and should ensure that safer products are brought to market for each and every one of us consumers.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the key point in food safety is the official control of products of animal origin intended for human consumption, which is the subject of the schnellhardt report we are considering today. the four annexes to the regulation deal with fresh meat, molluscs, fisheries and milk and milk products. i shall simply mention the few points which are most important to me. first, a derogation must be included in the regulation for primary production. i believe that the primary production of food for private use, as well as the direct supply by the producer to the final consumer or to local shops and restaurants in small quantities, should be considered as traditional food production which should benefit from specific marketing methods. i therefore support amendments nos 11 and 12 from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. in addition, the competent authorities in each member state are, in my view, best placed to assess the situation and to issue prescriptions which will ensure the best protection for the consumer. it seems to me also essential to incorporate the concept of small craft establishments into the regulation, which should allow for sufficient flexibility without calling into question or reducing consumer food safety. this concept of small establishments guarantees the maintenance of small slaughterhouses distributed in a balanced way throughout the territory. so let us not go to too strict and too burdensome regulations, which will lead to the closure of local slaughterhouses. the maintenance of these slaughterhouses would simplify matters since there would be no need to legislate on the maximum distances and hours of transport of livestock by truck. let's face it: only by shortening the food chain will we make progress. to this end, it is important to reward producers and operators with a better balance sheet result by granting them a reduction in the costs of official controls. this must not, of course, be at the expense of food security. the issue of licensing is another difficult one. who is to blame? community or national level? so where does subsidiarity fit in? i prefer the option of dual competence which will require member states to keep the list of approved establishments up to date, while highlighting their own national control regulations. on the other hand, it seems to me counterproductive for the commission to require the member states to transmit the names of establishments in a single format by means of telematics, since the simple exchange of lists between member states is sufficient. similarly, there is no justification for the standardisation of administrative sanctions for breaches of hygiene principles. administrative closures of slaughterhouses, such as the publication of penalties, are the sole responsibility of the member states. the difficult problem of importing animal products from third countries is effectively addressed. member states will have at their disposal a list of approved, inspected and certified establishments, taking into account the hygiene, manufacturing and storage rules applied in third countries. i am more concerned about animal welfare, which must not take precedence over food safety, and about the preeminent role of the veterinary inspector. i think that official auxiliaries should be able to participate in ante mortem inspections at the slaughterhouse. this is already the case in france and i cannot understand why this should be called into question. i support the rapporteur on amendments nos 111 to 114 concerning game meat, which propose an analysis of residues which are not the result of hunting itself. i have reservations about the commission's proposal, particularly the presence of old open fractures. a priori, if they're old, these fractures are no longer open, so they're healed. there are no more food-related risks. as regards the formation of gas in the gastrointestinal tract, as you know, hunters, as a precaution, immediately detect game and i do not see how the veterinarian, inspector or official could therefore check the presence of gas in the gastrointestinal tract. as regards the presence of the listed health-hazardous parasites, i think it would be advisable to attach the list of these in the annex, in order to avoid difficulties of interpretation.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i asked to speak quickly to say that i accepted the deletions of articles 10, 17, 34 and recital c proposed by the epp. i would also point out that i shall be tabled an oral compromise amendment to amendment no 32 in the near future.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i therefore propose to remove the mandatory aspect of my proposal and at the same time to clarify its content in the following form: 'requests the member states to introduce the gender dimension in the broadcasting of sports competitions'.
- mr president, i would like to support mr posselt's position on the procedural argument which was used at the last moment, when a debate on this subject was scheduled. whatever the subject and whatever the debate, as long as a text is to be debated, i find it unacceptable that for reasons of mere expediency, it is decided at the last moment that there will be no debate. this is a matter of expediency. we do not have to set agendas in this parliament and organise the sitting according to the opportunities of each. secondly, i think that this shows once again that the agenda for thursday afternoons is clearly intended to make this sitting meaningless, which is totally unacceptable. all reports that are to be dealt with on thursday afternoon must be treated with equal dignity. but since there are few reports, so-called less important reports, parliament is empty and the reports, dealing in particular with human rights or other matters, are not the subject of any debate worthy of the name to establish positions. of course, mr van hulten has explained the problem very well: the continuing desire to violate the treaty and to ensure that strasbourg is not recognised in its right to sit in parliament, including on monday afternoon. here again, we can see the tactics being used.
in writing. - will parliament be heard? this is the question we must ask ourselves today, on the eve of the agriculture summit in luxembourg. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt the common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption. the greens regret that codecision does not apply to agriculture. if it were, european farmers and consumers would be better off, as the change in mentality has been rapid and in the right direction: to turn the page from an agriculture that is costly, wasteful and destructive of the peasant world, to an agriculture that respects men and women, their work, the land and the environment. in short, environmentally responsible agriculture, which the greens have always advocated. this 10-year reform of the cap is a bet on a new, modern agriculture which takes account of the social, economic and environmental realities of farming. the compromise reached in this area is aimed at this agriculture and we can only be pleased about it, although it is surprising that the positions were so different not long ago. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - i voted against the cunha report which approves the broad lines of the fischler proposal which, as a mid-term review of agenda 2000, proposes a radical reform of the cap based on decoupling aid, modulation and cross-compliance with environmental requirements. i cannot support this reform, which clearly aims to further liberalize agricultural policy, to continue to lower the prices of agricultural products, to dissociate the farmer's income from his production, in order to anticipate possible wto requirements. in short, it is organizing the destruction of european agriculture, and first and foremost french agriculture, in the name of a devious globalism. whereas the cap should have been more stable, with greater responsibility for its actors and based on remunerative prices, this text will lead agriculture towards ever greater concentration, accompanied by a kind of functionalisation of agriculture condemned either to hyperproductivity or to salaried gardening.
in writing. - the principle of decoupling direct aid, whether it is total, as the european commission wants, or partial 'at first', as the cunha report recommends, is wrong. it will make the cap even more complex and bureaucratic. it completely ignores the fact that direct aid to farmers is 'compensatory' aid for the price and income cuts inflicted on farmers by previous reforms. it turns these aids into rents which are disconnected from agricultural activity and therefore unjustifiable in the eyes of the taxpayers. it is draining the instruments of control and production guidance which are the cmo of their effectiveness and weakening europe's negotiating position in the wto. it is true that the commission is accustomed, when it wants to destroy a common policy, to a strategy of implementing a reform so impractical and unsustainable that it is in fact only a step towards the outright disappearance of the public policy it claimed to adapt. the only point of satisfaction was the adoption of my amendment on energy and industrial crops on arable land, which should help to consolidate the emerging sectors.
in writing. - in this debate, my position is clear. first, the current cap is certainly not perfect. it's expensive and sometimes unfair. however, it is to this cap that we owe the existence of agriculture in europe today. secondly, the cap may need to be reformed to adapt to the current european and global situation. it must be better targeted on quality, environmental and rural employment objectives. however, what is being proposed to us, cleverly disguised under the guise of justice and ecology (in the name of the famous 'decoupling'), will inevitably lead, within 10 years, to the disappearance of the cap and, in its wake, to the disappearance of a truly diversified and self-sufficient european agriculture. that is why i cannot accept the proposals that have been made to us.
in writing. - we voted against the oostlander report on turkey's application for membership, although the rapporteur has shown a certain willingness to nuance the usual positions of the council and the commission. so it seems that the message from the grassroots is starting to influence some of the parliamentarians a little bit. in particular, the report seems to appreciate the immense work that remains to be done to implant values similar to those of the european union, not only in the state superstructures of turkey (which would imply the dismantling of the authoritarian state), but also in the depths of its population. but in the end, the oostlander report does not dare to break the taboo, and continues to pretend to believe that by the end of 2004 it will be possible to open accession negotiations with turkey, if it makes efforts to meet the copenhagen criteria by then. we think that we should be more realistic and not underestimate the profound differences between turkey and europe. in any case, we ask that the peoples not be put once again before the fait accompli and that they be consulted before any negotiations are opened.
in writing. - i abstained. i share the strong questions raised in this report and i congratulate my colleague, mr oostlander, on the quality of his work. in turkey, fundamental rights and individual freedoms are not in line with the requirements of the european union. there is still a lot of work to be done to make this country a genuine democracy. it is also important that turkey faces up to its history, including by publicly acknowledging the genocide of the armenians. i abstained on this report because it does not raise the question of europe's borders and does not propose an alternative to turkey's accession with its uncontrolled consequences. opposing this accession is not a rejection of turkey. on the contrary, i propose the creation of a special relationship area, which would help this country in its economic and social development and support the steps taken to create a stable democracy.
in writing. - after enlargement to the east, the accession of turkey will complete the economic and social ruin of our nations. our farmers, having suffered the competition of polish agriculture, will not survive that of turkey, which will be the main beneficiary of the cap. our last industries that have not relocated their activities to the east will do so to turkey, where the cost of labour is even lower than in eastern europe. benefiting from the provisions of the european treaties, in particular those of schengen and maastricht, 70 million turks (100 million in twenty years) will have the opportunity to come to our countries to join the ranks of immigration, thus completing the dismantling of our social protection systems, which are primarily intended for our most modest compatriots. our people are aware of these facts, but their leaders are not. if there is no referendum, the european elections next year will be an opportunity for our compatriots to say no to the entry of an asian country, turkey, into europe.
in writing. - i abstained in the final vote on the report on turkey's application for membership of the european union. the european union's strategy in the face of turkey's application for membership, since the 1999 helsinki decision granting it the status of candidate country, does not seem realistic to me. the european parliament examines each year the progress made by turkey on the road to accession, even though this is not a recent development. the accession negotiations have not yet begun and we do not yet know the timetable. the heads of state or government, meeting in the european council in december 2004, will decide, on the basis of an assessment report on the situation in turkey, whether a timetable should be set for the opening of accession negotiations. i do not see why the european parliament is taking a different position on this issue today and i did not want to join in.
in writing. - i challenge anyone reading the smet report to understand what the 'open method of coordination' is exactly. this is not the rapporteur's fault, since the convention itself, which had intended to include a definition of this working method in its text of the 'european constitution', finally abandoned it in view of the difficulties of the year (article i-14 of the current draft). it was the lisbon council in march 2000 that introduced the term, but with a definition that was too vague. the intention is quite clear: to set up a flexible coordination system allowing governments to get closer together, exchange experience, and, where appropriate, set global guidelines, but then remain flexible in their implementation. unfortunately, from that point on, interpretations differ. we believe that this method should be developed as an alternative to rigid harmonization within the scope of the treaty. the 'integrationists' on the contrary want to use it to undermine national competences, and even to make the procedure more rigid by transforming it into a kind of top-down planning method, accompanied by binding numerical indicators. this is a complete misunderstanding.
in writing. - i must admit that this report has already a merit: that of having amused me. the heading 'women and sport' might have been confusing, but the content is beyond comprehension! i have read and re-read this crazy report, but i still don't understand the ins and outs of it. i have certainly noted passages from the anthology on the access to sports as a fundamental right, on sports as highly sexed and stereotyped territories where the dominant models of masculinity and femininity are reproduced, but also transgressed, or on the socially discriminatory and sexually stereotyped treatment of the media. we are left speechless. but no, i find no justification for this report, other than to allow a member of the european parliament to engage in an exercise of style worthy of the greatest comedians. so, after "women and sport", we'll have a report on "sport and sexual minorities"! who said "in politics, talk to say nothing and say nothing to talk are the two major principles of those who would better shut up before they open up"?
in writing. - breast cancer and cancer in general are a scourge which, in my view, does not provoke sufficient mobilization by europe and the states in terms of research, prevention, quality of care, but also psychological follow-up of the sick, who are often left alone in the face of this cruel disease. i therefore support all efforts to remedy this situation and recall the appropriations which i had the european parliament and the council adopt for this purpose in my report on the sixth framework programme for research and development. i therefore naturally support the excellent and relevant report by our colleague mr jöns and his continuing efforts on this matter.
- mr president, in yesterday's minutes i am not listed as being present, although i was obviously present and took part in all the roll-call votes. i've already applied to have it corrected. thank you.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the european commission, which is the guarantor of the application of community law, must maintain a privileged relationship with the citizen who, as a witness or actual or alleged victim of an infringement of community law, lodges a complaint with its services. the communication which underpins this report attests to the commission's commitment to transparency and efficiency. it publishes, as it had undertaken to do, the consolidated set of its internal procedural rules governing its relations with the complainant. she also ensures that she remains in contact with him throughout the examination of his complaint, following a strict timetable. it was in particular following an own-initiative inquiry and criticism of the european ombudsman, following the unwelcome closure of a complaint, and also following a repeated request from the european parliament that the european commission reconsidered its administrative methods in dealing with its relations with the complainant. it should be recalled that the commission has a discretionary power in the assessment of a complaint at the stage of initiating the infringement procedure and at the stage of referral to the court of justice. the aim is not to review the handling of complaints but to provide citizens with information, in particular on the progress of the examination of their complaint. we are pleased to see that the commission's proposal is totally in the right direction. we consider the administrative measures taken by the commission in the context of the examination of complaints to be particularly valuable and to allow the complainant to be regularly informed of the state of play of the procedure. moreover, the maximum period of one year that the commission undertakes to respect in order to respond to each case seems to us to be quite reasonable, given the number of complaints lodged and their complexity. however, i think there is one thing missing from this communication, namely the double filing of a complaint and a petition. as you know, the commission is not the only body responsible for answering citizens' questions about the proper functioning of the institutions and the proper application of community law. the european ombudsman, the european parliament, through its committee on petitions, are also increasingly being consulted. it is therefore possible that a complaint lodged by a citizen may also be the subject of a petition to parliament, lodged by the same citizen. this is what i call double filing, whereby each person is treated differently according to the institutions to which he or she is subject, and according to a different timetable, which, as you will understand, is a source of confusion for both the citizen and the institutions themselves. it seems desirable and logical that decisions taken by community institutions concerning complaints, appeals or petitions should be coordinated at the level of the institutions concerned, in the clear interest of efficiency for the citizen. we therefore urge the commission to review the interinstitutional agreement of 1989. it should also be borne in mind that since that date the ombudsman function has been introduced and the right of petition has been recognised in a large number of member states, which has considerably increased the number of appeals. despite the commission's competence in dealing with complaints, citizens cannot do without the committee on petitions, which provides more political attention and a response to the problems raised, but the commission and parliament are, of course, complementary in order to ensure the required effectiveness. the information needs will increase in the coming years with the arrival of ten new member states in the community. let me end by mentioning one of the commission's most promising achievements: the creation of solvit. solvit aims to resolve very quickly - and when i say very quickly it is in ten weeks, with four additional weeks in case of additional problems - recurrent crossborder problems concerning the internal market and thus prevent legal action. the originality of solvit is to involve the member states in a partnership with the commission for the examination of the dossier. it is a guarantee of integration which is, moreover, becoming increasingly successful and the commission should be congratulated on this step forward, the ultimate aim of which is to simplify the lives of citizens in compliance with community law. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i have asked to speak on behalf of the socialist group in the context of a procedural motion to draw your attention to the situation of vincent reynaud, a frenchman from strasbourg, and thierry falise, a belgian. the two journalists and their interpreter have been held incommunicado since june 5 in vientiane, laos. they are accused by the laotian police of having had contact, in the course of their profession, with bandits concerning the murder of a laotian militiaman, when in reality they were reporting on a minority of mountaineers. they are now facing the death penalty. on behalf of my group, i ask you, mr president, to intervene immediately with the laotian authorities to obtain the release of the journalists vincent reynaud and thierry falise, and to ensure that justice and truth are done, at a time when our concern is great and our emotions are very keen. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, i would ask you, on behalf of this parliament, to intervene with the moroccan government, and especially with the king of morocco, to ask for the release of a moroccan journalist, mr lmrabet, who was sentenced yesterday to three years in prison, simply for writing critical articles on the situation in morocco. mr. imrabet is on a hunger strike; it is therefore likely to die if there is no outside intervention. i will therefore ask the president - we are ready to pass the file on to him - to intervene with the moroccan government to try to save the life of this journalist.
mr president, the conclusions of the convention, which will be submitted to the thessaloniki council, were intended to answer a general question: how can europe be brought closer to the citizens? but today it is not at all clear how the proposed text will answer that question. worse still, it is foreseeable that before long another treaty would be needed to resolve the power conflicts or to clarify the obscure procedures that the new text wants to institute, for example for the common foreign policy. but, above all, this text takes the exact opposite direction from what should be. to bring europe closer to its citizens, more genuine democracy is needed. however, the convention is taking the direction of enhanced supranationality, that is, false democracy, by making qualified majority voting and co-decision general, without a safety net for national democracies as such, by instituting a european constitution superior to national constitutions, by transferring to the union competences in the field of fundamental rights by integrating the charter. i see nothing in these conclusions that will bring europe closer to its peoples, but i see everything that will take it further away. after the new treaty, if it follows the proposals of the convention, we will be in exactly the same situation as before and democracy, understanding and people's affection for the union will not have improved one iota. if we want to re-establish contact between europe and its peoples, i repeat once again, we must fight against the feelings of alienation and powerlessness that citizens feel towards brussels. there is only one way to do this: by giving the national democracies an active role in european decisions, for example by giving them the right to check subsidiarity, or by counterbalancing the community mechanisms with a right of veto or non-participation that should be recognised for each national parliament. mr president, all the timid proposals to that effect have been systematically nullified by the convention. we'll have to take them back some day.
- mr president, the convention was a rich experience for those who attended. but it will also have fully justified the judgment of a french philosopher who spoke of a europe obsessed with its powers, but indifferent to the results it achieves. it is clear that the draft treaty, which is called constitutional, which the convention has produced does not in any way respond to the mandate of laeken. it does not respond to it in terms of democracy, since the convention has organized a europe in a closed vase, in which various elements have vaguely changed their place. parliament has no reason to complain about the gains it has made, but all this is far from what is called democracy, that is to say, direct participation by citizens in decisions affecting them. i shall not speak of foreign policy, where there is clearly a deception on the merchandise side, when we know that 18 out of 25 european countries do not want a so-called european policy in this area. i would like to repeat what mr crowley said: if it is a constitution, it must be put to a referendum, and if it is not put to a referendum by the peoples of europe, then it will not be a constitution, because no citizen will feel bound by it or protected by it. mr president, i believe you are going to thessaloniki tomorrow or the day after. perhaps our parliament should vote a resolution, which i believe would have a sufficiently wide support from all the tendencies represented here, to recommend very strongly to the council and to the countries that this text be put to the people of europe in a referendum when the time comes.
- mr president, mr barón crespo has been granted one minute and forty seconds more than his original speaking time. i hope you will do the same for all the speakers, including those who, like me - and i am not the only one! - found mr solana's performance a little while ago pathetic. as for the regional slogan called the 'road map', although we are not surprised that it has been torn in a thousand ways in recent days, we would like to remind you that the cause is very simple. it is simple: for us, as sovereignists, we can only conceive of peace in the sovereignty and freedom of nations in balance. unless the nations are balanced, there can be no peace. the whole policy of the united states is to increase imbalances. the global imbalances, of course, since this superpower no longer recognizes any boundaries, but also the regional imbalances, and this is certainly the most serious one, as far as the subject on the agenda is concerned. the whole policy of the united states is to destroy any arab power that emerges: this is probably the main reason for their relentlessness against iraq, since they do not want a modern and developed arab power. the policy of the united states is also to support extremists on both sides, israeli extremists as well as palestinian extremists, sometimes by machiavellian methods which are sinister when one dares to dismantle them. and then, next to that, there is this european policy - or at any rate there should be this european policy if europe existed - which is also the policy of france and which consists in doing exactly the opposite, that is to say in supporting the moderates on both sides, both on the israeli side and on the palestinian side. it is, as i said, france's policy and i hope that if europe ever decides to have any influence on the course of this poor world, it will know that this is the wise way.
- mr president, there will be no sign of a peace process for the palestinian and israeli peoples until the political conditions for a just peace have been met. the first of these conditions is the immediate withdrawal of the israeli army from the occupied territories. but that is not the will of sharon, nor of bush. the first applications of the roadmap are, it must be admitted, pathetic. what is the dismantling of a few caravans illegally planted, in the face of the aspiration of a people, to its legitimate right to a state? the continuation of the building of the separation wall, the continuation of the abuses, the continuation of the policy of targeted assassinations say a lot about sharon's willingness to persevere in his fatal logic. this reinforces the despair of the entire palestinian people, but their determination to live free in a state of their own remains unchanged and we must support it. the european union cannot remain deaf to what is at stake in the middle east today. it has the political means to act. it is time for the council to finally decide to follow the european parliament's advice to freeze the association agreement with israel until the withdrawal of the occupied territories. it is time for the un to finally demand that the israeli government implement the resolutions it has voted for.
mr president, the united states had hardly taken a significant step forward in recognizing, in the voice of president bush, the unavoidable need for the palestinians to have a viable state and for the americans to be strongly involved in the israeli-palestinian issue, weighing in with all their might so that the road map could be implemented, when the infernal spiral of attacks and retaliation resumed, jeopardizing the relaunch of the negotiating process that was taking place in aqaba. it is regrettable that the most extreme palestinian movements, and in particular hamas, are gaining in importance in this respect, and that their criticism of the legitimacy of the state of israel is absolutely unacceptable. but should we not begin to wonder whether the increase in attempts to divide the palestinians among themselves and the refusal to give a clear vision of the palestinians' right to an independent state worthy of the name are not the two main factors that are today making the bed of hamas, while at the same time weakening the palestinian authority as a whole? financial tracking and targeted assassinations may not be the most effective ways to reduce the audience for extremists. the most effective means are political means. when the palestinians are offered a credible prospect of a real state, albeit a small one, but with the sovereignty and territorial continuity necessary for the existence of a full-fledged state, and not a pseudo-state or a semblance of a state, then the star of hamas will fade forever. there is also one means which we should not dismiss or refuse to consider, and which could play an important role in facilitating the recovery between the two sides and the resumption of dialogue: it is the force of interposition. we know that at some point, at the appropriate time, the presence of a third party of this kind on the ground will prove indispensable. if we on the european side want to do something other than remain a spectator or commentator on this matter at this stage, it is on this type of contribution to the search for peace that we could usefully concentrate. i understand, mr high representative, that this idea put forward by france, but also taken up by the secretary-general of the united nations and others, does not have your support. if that is the case, i regret it, because i believe that there is an original and useful line of thought here, which we should rather try to share with our partners if we really want to contribute to the effective resumption of the peace process in a way that is not declaratory.
- mr president, i have three points. we were horrified by 9/11. what palestinian suicide terror attacks do to israelis is a daily 9/11. and starting to evacuate settlements, for the moment, does not change anything, unfortunately! the second observation is the road map. let's not mistake his nature. she's a frame and she can't be a cage. she's opening negotiations and she doesn't know how to close them. it is a programme and it cannot be a dictate. thirdly, in the negotiations which are now beginning, europe's position is weak because it is unbalanced and appears to be biased. italian diplomacy has begun efforts to rebalance. we wish him every success so that the italian presidency will finally enable europe to play a useful role in peace.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that when we talk about security, there is a double language. there are those who say that our true security lies in mediation, cooperation, prevention. then there are those who say that our security is dependent on our ability to defend and intervene and who associate it more with the military. i believe that the basis of our security is the credibility of our policies. are we credible when we insert an article 2 on human rights and democracy in our association agreements with the maghreb countries, for example, or with other countries, only to forget this article in our actual relations with these countries? no, no one takes us seriously! we sign association agreements and, when things get complicated, we forget that one of our safeguards is to be surrounded by democracies. the more democracies there are, the less war there is. are we credible? elmar brok is right when he says: were we credible in the balkans. no, you can't! they were shouting, "peace, peace, peace!" the men were getting slaughtered and we didn't have the strength to intervene. so we were not credible. when we are told that we must have consistent positions with those of the americans, that we must not be against the americans, i say that we must not be for or against the americans. but is it credible when we say that we are at war because there are weapons of mass destruction and in fact there are none, that it is a lie? we are not credible. do europeans have the right to say: a lie is a lie? is it still the urticaria of all the pro-american people when they say: the americans lied, colin powell lied to the security council? let us consider another example. are we credible when we invoke international law as an argument? but is international law, as it exists today, the bible? no, you can't! is a security council without brazil, without india, without south africa a security council for the world today? no, you can't! so, to fight for international law is to fight to reform it, to change it. let us stop saying the same thing: international law as it exists is a product of the cold war and the cold war is no longer our problem. i'll end the terrorism. on this point again, are we credible when, on the one hand, we say, with others, and rightly so, that we had to intervene in afghanistan against terrorism, and on the other hand, for the time being, we all remain silent about what is happening in guantanamo? fighting, fighting against terrorism, means fighting and fighting for the rule of law, wherever, during war and in the different forms of war. if we can't put these problems to bed together, we're not credible. so, for me, the basis of security is credibility. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, as i have said in my minority opinion annexed to the leinen report, the action of political parties at european level should be guided from below, that is to say, by national political parties and citizens, and not from above, that is to say, by the european institutions. this is the first condition for encouraging a living democracy, instead of creating an artificial democracy out of thin air. the second condition would be to reject the idea of the status of political parties, introduced by the treaty of nice, which seems to be a matter of bureaucracy rather than a society of freedom. in addition to this objection of principle, we also have a strong objection concerning the modalities, because we do not think that the commission's proposal is in accordance with the treaties. it wants to finance european political parties, whereas the treaty uses a much broader expression, 'political parties at european level', which includes the european action of national political parties. we believe that this is a real discrimination. in conclusion, mr president, i support the request by my colleague, mr ribeiro e castro, to refer this text back to committee under rule 130a of the rules of procedure, since 75 amendments have been tabled, which is much more than the limit of 50. i have heard mr leinen's reply, which says that some of these amendments are compromise amendments, but in fact that notion does not exist in the regulation. whether it is a simple amendment or a compromise, the text may be referred back to committee if there are more than 50 amendments.
- mr president, i would like to begin by showing you these: they are empty envelopes. i will explain why i did this at the end of my speech. i would also like to congratulate my friend jo leinen on the quality of her work. he made a near-miss. he was right to stress the importance of european parties, which are a key structural tool in our continental debate. the representativeness threshold seems to me to be correct, with reference to regional parliaments and the setting of a 3% threshold for the european elections. as for the clause on verification of compliance with the charter of fundamental rights, i think it is quite good. however, i am still waiting for one colleague to explain to me why a company would spontaneously give money to a political party. it seems to me that when you have to give accounts to shareholders and you give money, it's against service. and in my little democrat head, it seems to me that when an elected official receives money in exchange for a service to be rendered, it is called corruption. so they say, yes, but it will be done in transparency. i'm not sure corruption in transparency is a big step forward. i am also told that it will be very, very little money, the amounts are tiny. very little, so why not at all? if it's so little, let's just skip it and not start the pump. the more so as the pump will be directed mainly to the parties in power who will be able to send the elevator back. so they'll have even more opportunities to stay in power because they'll have money. they'll be able to provide more services and the loop will be closed. so i'm going to go back to my envelopes. like the one i'm holding in my hand, the envelopes will multiply, fill with money and circulate, because it will be so easy to break up the amounts to go over all the ceilings and bypass all the transparencies. i am therefore calling for a date tonight: there will come a day, ladies and gentlemen, when the front pages of the newspapers and in the pre-tories will denounce cases of hidden funding of european political parties. i know that democracy, which serves the public sphere, has a cost, but that cost must be borne by the public sphere and by the public sphere alone.
- mr president, i would like to congratulate mr wijkman and thank him for his interest in dialogue and for listening to the amendments tabled in the committee on development and cooperation. the accession of the poor to energy has become a priority, as the johannesburg summit rightly stated, even though the vital needs of the population in this area are far from being met and the trend remains uneven, due in particular to the consumption of fossil fuels in developed countries, in particular in the united states, which is excessive and very unbalanced compared to that of developing countries. life expectancy and development are so closely linked to access to energy that many people see it as a fundamental human right. this right must be recognised, guaranteed and protected. how can we contribute to the existence and development of an efficient energy sector in developing countries without policies that favour strong cooperation for the exchange of know-how, with the primary objective of meeting the vital needs of the population? the need for funding is obvious. the creation of a sustainable energy fund and a much larger participation of the european union could be a first response. above all, as the report rightly points out, the existence of a strong public sector in the energy sector is particularly important in the first phase of development. furthermore, as the majority of the committee on development and cooperation has said, i remain convinced that the commission's options for privatising the energy sector are more than dangerous. the commission's role is not to promote privatisation in developing countries. the exploitation and distribution of primary energy, which is essential for development, must be carried out by public or private companies, but which are committed to public service and general interest objectives. this public control is all the more vital as transnational companies operating in developing countries too often pursue short-term profitability objectives, to the detriment of the needs of local populations and at the risk of looting energy resources. effective instruments for monitoring the activities of european companies in particular must be put in place. i also support the call on the commission to take stock of deregulation in the energy sector from a human development perspective and to work towards international trade standards that respect human and peoples' rights. finally, a few days before the next wto summit in cancún next september, we must reject the integration of the energy sector into the general agreement on trade in services, which would make energy a commodity like any other. the objective of access to energy for all in the service of development will not be achieved by following a model imposed by the liberal logic of multilateral institutions such as the wto, but by expanding and guaranteeing public services to serve the needs of the population.
- mr president, i would just like to add a word in the same vein. first of all, i would like to thank the commissioner, because i think that it is with debates involving a confrontation of ideas that we are moving forward. this is what happened at the level of the development committee. not everyone agreed with all the points in the report, but i would like to see the debate continue, because it has to be. i have just spoken, for example, of the general agreement on trade in services. the debate on this is public, it exists. i want him prosecuted. like mrs sauquillo, i also thank the commissioner for what she said about the commission's commitment to more funding. i think that together we can agree to do more in this respect, as the needs are enormous.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank our colleague, mr lisi, very sincerely for the work he has done. as has just been said, parliament will have to decide tomorrow on the second reading of this report and we are here, as with other reports, divided, of course, between the desire to be able to carry the negotiations with the council and the commission as far as possible and the desire, also, to bring this text to a conclusion quickly, so that its implementation can take place as soon as possible. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection adopted a text a few weeks ago by a very large majority, which confirms the requirements we must meet if we are to make progress in the field of prevention. on these issues, the european union must show its unity and its willingness to improve existing legislation in order to respond to the legitimate concerns of european citizens. it is also an opportunity for us to give meaning to this european construction, which is often accused of spending more time on the development of standards for products than on the well-being, or even the health, of europeans. i am therefore glad that the committee on the environment has adopted the amendments on the obligation to notify the competent authorities, because we must be very demanding in this area, without being bureaucratic, madam commissioner, and we can very well consider simplifying the documents. the amendments concerning the training of all staff, including those of the subcontracting companies, seem to me to be essential, since it has become clear, in the case of several accidents, that a lack of training and information was involved. on the question of safety distances between establishments and sensitive areas, the terrible accident in toulouse has shown the weaknesses of legislation in this area and we must incorporate these elements into our report, just as we must now extend the development of maps of sensitive areas. one point which is problematic and seems to be met with determined opposition from the council and the commission, as you have just reiterated, madam commissioner, is the extension of the scope of application to all mining and waste treatment activities involving hazardous substances. the council and the commission wish to restrict the scope of the seveso ii directive to the thermal and chemical treatment of waste only, justifying this position by the fact that, in its proposal on waste from the extractive industry, the commission refers, in article 6 on the prevention of major accidents, to the provisions of the seveso ii directive as amended. however, if we want to avoid, until the adoption of this new legislative proposal, a legal vacuum in respect of certain mining activities and certain treatments of mining waste, the european parliament must vote in favour of amendments nos 1, 2 and 13, without prejudice to the scope of the future report and without any redundancies. i therefore hope that parliament will adopt the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, thereby strengthening prevention at sites and the safety of european citizens. like the council, we want to reach an agreement at this stage of the legislative procedure, but, as you will have understood, not at any price.
- mr president, commissioner byrne, ladies and gentlemen, i generally agree with the recommendations of our rapporteur, mrs keppelhoff-wiechert, on the matter of additives in animal feed. it is clear that we must move towards the elimination of these antibiotics, which have been modestly renamed growth factors and are systematically incorporated as additives in certain foods. the trivialization of these antibiotics is in fact creating the risk of the development of unwanted antibiotic resistance, which is dangerous for human health. on the other hand, there seems to be no need to impose the elimination of coccidiostats which remain indispensable for poultry farming and i support the latest provisions proposed by our rapporteur on this matter. as for the issues raised by labelling, i believe that they cannot be solved by regulation alone and that the decisive factor is trust between the food manufacturer and the farmer who uses it. i would like to remind you, on the occasion of this debate on additives in animal feed, that feeding farm animals with industrially produced compound feeds is not the general solution, fortunately. the ruminants - sheep, dairy cows and suckler cows - are fed mainly on farm produce. for laying hens, this is more than 25% of the feed produced on the farm. only for poultry and pigs have feedingstuffs been almost entirely outsourced and industrialised in some regions. i would like to see some discussion about the merits of this development. it is obviously in the interest of this powerful industry, but is it in the interest of the consumer? is it in the farmer's interest? is it in the interests of the environment? is it in the public interest? does it go in the direction of animal welfare? it seems to me that the answer is five times no and that on the contrary, common sense would encourage the consumption of farm animals. consumers would be more reassured to consume animal products - milk, meat and eggs - using farm-based rather than industrial feed. it is a question of image, taste, traceability and probably also food safety, because farmers would never have given their cows meat meal themselves. for the farmer, this would be a way of capturing additional added value and avoiding double negotiation, that of selling his crop production and that of buying his compound feed. it would also have the opportunity to improve its image and to increase its commercial value. our environment would benefit from an obvious transport saving, that of the journey of the lorry that comes to the farm to buy the maize or the pea for fodder and that of the lorry that comes to the same farm to deliver the compound feed. the great benefit to the community would be to reduce the monstrous vegetable protein deficit that is plaguing our food security by replacing imported soybeans with locally produced oleoprotein crops. i would add that if agri-environmental aid were granted to farms producing oleoprotein for the self-consumption of their own livestock, it should be easy to get it accepted under the green box so dear to commissioner fischler. from the point of view of animal welfare, it would mean more time spent grazing, healthier, fresher and more varied food. it would therefore perhaps be a good thing, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if the european union and the member states, while not denying the usefulness of legislation on additives in animal feed, spent more energy on encouraging the feeding of farm animals than on regulating and controlling the production of industrial feed.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to stress the importance of this special report on the common fisheries policy, because it highlights the specificity of the mediterranean. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work. the mediterranean is a sea that is almost closed. it is an ecosystem, a real entity rich in its environment and culture. the problems which concern it must be solved in the framework of multilateral relations and the meda programmes, for which i am rapporteur, are genuine european union instruments set up by the 1995 barcelona convention, which make it possible to intervene with a view to sustainable development. the economic, technical and environmental problems associated with fisheries must also be taken into account by meda. i would like to stress several points which appear to me to be of major importance and which are raised in the report by our colleague mr lisi. first, for environmental knowledge purposes, it is necessary to carry out a survey of the environment, waste water treatment, the evolution of coastal zones and the evolution of fisheries resources. to this end, a very large investment must be made rapidly in scientific research programmes on the state of stocks and the prospects for their evolution in line with fishing pressure. secondly, the fishing techniques should be studied in order to determine the most appropriate ones, taking into account in particular the size of the fish, which is often smaller in the mediterranean than elsewhere, without however being juveniles. thirdly, small-scale fishing, often coastal, which is a major source of jobs and much more resource-friendly than industrial fishing, must be protected and promoted. fourthly, the profession is rich in motivated and competent managers, such as fishermen, who are committed to the ethics of fishing and who do not hesitate to promote local experiences that are very interesting for the lessons that can be learned from them. regional fisheries committees, which are focal points for consultation and take account of the needs of the fisheries sector, should be promoted. finally, as regards the mediterranean sea itself and the coastal ponds and wetlands bordering it, the greatest possible respect for the environment must be ensured in order to ensure that fisheries can continue to develop, particularly in ponds such as the thau pond, for which it is essential to maintain the classification in category a. only this can allow extensive exploitation to continue, with constant consideration of health criteria corresponding to an excellent quality environment, avoiding any drift that would inevitably occur if only out-of-water activities were encouraged, in particular the cleaning of shells.
in writing. - i voted for this report. we all remember the terrible disasters that struck certain factories, especially the one in toulouse. in the face of these accidents, it is premature to want to challenge a law that has been in place for three years. however, safety measures should be improved. our priority is to be able to combine industrial development with increased security. can we really imagine a europe without factories? there is no such thing as zero risk and it would be a lie to say otherwise. the aim is to be prepared for the unexpected. for this, the concept of information is essential, in particular the concept of behaviour to be adopted in the event of an explosion. this is essential to prevent even more serious damage in the future. we mustn't scare the people. preparing for the unexpected also means doing everything you can to avoid it. the new requirements are based on a fair assessment of risks, according to criteria defined at community level, the responsibility of the company's stakeholders - employees and managers - with an obligation to provide adequate training, the implementation of safety management systems with field tests and the strengthening of controls. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - we voted against the leinen report on the status and funding of european political parties because we think it is indecent to take money from taxpayers to keep these artificial bodies going, whose main purpose is to make people believe that there is a real european political scene, participating in a european democracy. in reality, it is largely a deception. if the so-called european political parties really have the solid base they claim, then they accept to be financed by that base, the citizens and the national political parties. furthermore, the proposed system of "status" may result in political control of parties, which has extremely vague legal references and is unworthy of a free society. this is so true that the promoters and beneficiaries of the project themselves are reluctant to see their names involved. the commission would like the european parliament to manage the system, because it is obviously political in nature. parliament, not concerned about damaging its image, would like the commission to do so. to simplify matters, why not give up this bad plan?
in writing. - i abstained on this report for two reasons. the main reason is that the regulation on the statute and funding of european political parties allows donations by legal persons to european political parties. i cannot accept such a proposal because it makes it impossible for the parties to be independent of the economic circles. the influence of economic lobbies on political parties and political orientations is already significant, and direct funding, even with a ceiling, will further increase their influence on political parties. moreover, the funding of national political parties by european political parties is not guaranteed by the authorisation of cross-border actions. finally, it is no longer a question of european political parties but of political parties at european level. i decided to abstain and not to vote against this report because i believe that the adoption of such a statute is a positive and strong signal towards a closer union, a truly shared destiny. the european political parties, financed by public subsidies and by the contributions of their members, are one of the means offered to citizens to support and achieve this ever closer union of peoples.
in writing. - in addition to the questions which remain, particularly on the commission's role in the allocation and control of appropriations, some points raise serious problems. this is the case with the obligation on european parties to respect the principles of democracy and the rule of law and the fundamental rights and principles contained in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the treaties. i am very concerned about the possible consequences of such a provision, which contains in its seed the principle of the prohibition of political parties - ipso facto, that is what excluding a party from public funding is all about. this liberticidal measure is all the more shocking because it leaves room for arbitrariness. how can we expect parliament to carry out an objective examination of the status, programme and activities of a political party? it must also be stressed that the europe of parties towards which the project is moving will not be synonymous with european democracy. nothing would be worse than to see a system within the european union developed dominated by parties eager for power, a system which in france signaled the bankruptcy of the third and fourth republics.
in writing. - we voted against the terrón i cusí report on community immigration policy because it provides, in form and substance, a sample of the european parliament's most disastrous productions. the form of the report was put on the agenda at the last minute and it was voted on without debate, as were the vast majority of the reports of this part-session. in substance, this text, presented by a left-wing rapporteur, is supposed to deal with the whole of immigration policy, but it says almost nothing about illegal immigration. on the contrary, it considers that the decisive factor in assessing the success of a european immigration policy is the full integration of migrants in the host countries. to this end, it proposes, inter alia, to create a 'civic citizenship' which would give legal immigrants various rights, including the right to vote in municipal and european elections (paragraph 29). unsurprisingly, the report states that the european refugee fund cannot finance forced returns (paragraph 53). however, it welcomed the commission's proposal to finance pilot projects in the field of integration (paragraph 39).
in writing. - the wijkman report has the great merit of highlighting the key role played by energy in development and of setting out some edifying orders of magnitude: from the two billion human beings who today lack access to an energy service capable of meeting their basic needs, to the forecasts of growth in world energy demand for 2020 (+ 65% compared to 1995), the emphasis is judiciously placed on the vicious circles of underdevelopment against which it is now imperative to act in the interest of the entire planet. if the rapporteur and i can welcome the commission's initiatives, we will be quick to add that, in the face of their lack of ambition, he could have - and should have - pointed out the lack of research efforts in the field of nuclear energy, because the serious prospective studies clearly show - and the rapporteur also contributes to this despite himself - our inability to meet the future energy needs of the planet if we turn our backs on the only technology capable of effectively taking over from fossil fuels, which are also often the source of greed and serious conflicts, as the report points out. my group will vote on this report, hoping that it will contribute to this life-saving awareness.
in writing. - i voted for this report. adopting a strategy for the protection and conservation of the marine environment means designing a genuine european policy for maritime safety. regulations and directives exist, it is up to the member states to apply them and the european commission to monitor their implementation. we must be uncompromising on this point, because it is easy, in the event of a disaster, to make europe the ideal scapegoat. new requirements for maritime safety are also proposed to protect our coasts: the introduction of double-hull boats, possible criminal sanctions for any infringer, and i call for the creation of european coastguards to accompany these measures. this policy aims to protect and preserve rather than try to repair the damage already done. the ecological disaster is not going to be fixed by subsidies. the regions affected suffer and will suffer for a long time in terms of their biodiversity and ecological balance, which are essential for the maintenance of fisheries resources and the preservation of species.
- mr president, i agree with the rapporteur. i should like to take this opportunity to say a word or two about the reasons why we think we are in the presence of what we call the fumus persecutionis, that is to say, what in criminal proceedings suggests that there is something other than the desire to see justice proceed in a calm and normal way. first of all, as the report has pointed out, amongst several people who could have been prosecuted for the same acts, mr cohn-bendit is the only one who has been prosecuted, which is already a criterion for me. the second criterion is the late nature of the prosecutions: they take place, as if by chance, long after the facts have occurred. the difficulty of this case is, of course, that the facts for which mr cohn-bendit is being prosecuted are of a very early date. it is precisely because this prosecution is taking place while he is a member of the european parliament that we must ask ourselves. moreover, this complaint - and i would add that this is an important clue for me - does not come from just anyone. it comes from a parliamentarian opposed to mr cohn-bendit who has made this lawsuit one of the aspects of his political struggle. the only evidence of this is the successful press articles and statements made by the complainant immediately after the indictment or, say, the prosecution's relay of his claim against mr cohn-bendit. i think all this leads us to believe that if mr cohn-bendit were not a member of parliament, he would not have been prosecuted. therefore, as the rapporteur has pointed out, we are really in the presence of a fumus persecutionis and mr cohn-bendit's immunity should be maintained.
- mr president, i too share the rapporteur's conclusions, more so than the analysis which leads to them, since i think that mr camre's immunity should not be waived. i would like to make two or three comments: firstly, as has been said, i share the disgust that i feel and that i think we all feel at the content of what mr camre said. however, i believe that this is our mission and it is our honour to ignore it. it is true that in recent years there has been a tendency within the committee on legal affairs and the internal market and more generally in this parliament to protect speech or members who are prosecuted for speech or attitudes which could be considered political, in the broadest possible sense. i think that this trend should be defended and affirmed; that is the point of this report. this must be stated in this report as in others, especially since if members have special responsibilities, it would be blind not to consider that they are also exposed in a particular way. we must take account of this exposure and the risk that weighs on public life today: the almost systematic questioning of the responsibilities of local elected representatives and the no less systematic prosecution of parliamentarians because of the words they can say. i believe that we must take stock of this development and protect parliamentarians, not in order to protect individuals but the institution, its independence and freedom. at a time when we are increasingly in a democracy of opinion, it is imperative that we make arrangements which will allow parliamentarians to express themselves freely and to live their own opinion free from pressure, even from the judiciary. that is the sense of the approach adopted by the legal affairs committee, that is the sense of this report, and that is why i support this request to maintain mr camre's immunity, i repeat, whatever the reservations, whatever the disgust that may inspire us in the words of the member of parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. these reversals are linked to the uniqueness of this case. as in the previous case, we are dealing with a case in which freedom of expression is at stake. mr musotto is being prosecuted for having made certain remarks on italian television just after his election by universal suffrage, but before parliament met in its constituent session. the problem is that if we follow the text to the letter, it was not yet "truly" parliamentary at the time it was expressed. this strict, even restrictive interpretation should lead us to lift the immunity of someone who was not a member of parliament at the time of the facts. this solution may be legally pure. but it is morally and legally deeply shocking. in law, there is the letter, but also the spirit. however, there is no doubt that at the time when he was questioned by the press, mr musotto was already considered to be a member of parliament, since the journalist began his question by addressing him as 'mr member of parliament'. it is therefore indisputable that he was questioned and answered as a member of parliament and any solution which would seek to deny him the benefit of immunity or to fail to defend his immunity would, in my view, be contrary, if not to the letter, at least to the spirit of the text. this was the unanimous opinion of the legal affairs committee after lengthy debate. as the rapporteur said in a previous report, we must not interpret national rights in cases where freedom of thought or expression is at issue. whatever he said, we must defend mr musotto's parliamentary immunity: the independence of our institution is at stake! i too think that it is not good to rely exclusively on national rights. in the present case, it appears that italian law grants immunity to someone who has just been elected by universal suffrage. in interpreting the treaties broadly, the legal affairs committee has acted with great wisdom, courage and consistency, because its position is in line with decisions taken in similar situations in the past. however, we have accompanied our report and conclusion with a remark to suggest to the convention and the next intergovernmental conference that the textual anomaly be corrected by an amendment of the text of article 3 of the 1976 act. such a revision would ensure optimum protection for members of parliament to guarantee them real freedom of expression and would fill the existing legal vacuum by making the exercise of the mandate coincide with the proclamation of the results of the european parliament elections. the letter and spirit of the texts would thus be reconciled. that is why, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am defending mr musotto's immunity.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are considering today is essential for the harmonization of financial markets, since it will allow securities to be listed on all european markets. but it is also essential because it guarantees the uniform information necessary for the transparency and security of the markets and thus their proper functioning. it also aims to ensure that all stakeholders are well informed about listed securities. the compromise reached by the greek presidency is undoubtedly a point of balance which can be welcomed, since it makes it possible to reconcile the different european approaches to market regulation. but when i hear my british colleague arguing in favour of the language regime, i get a certain suspicion. i understand that a dutchman, a frenchman or an italian can argue for a language system which is not a protection of markets; i imagine a different conception of market protection in the mouth of a londoner. more seriously, at this stage of the parliamentary proceedings, i would like to address two questions which, it seems to me, are not details, but are still very much essential questions. the first is the choice of the competent authority for convertibles, in other words, essentially eurobonds. it seems to me that by allowing companies to choose the competent authority, we encourage the so-called regulatory one. the issuing companies will naturally go to the least-caring authorities. we therefore risk weakening the markets. i've accepted the difference between debt and equity. the small investors are not affected by the bonds. so we can tolerate less strictness. on the other hand, it seems unacceptable to me to accept free choice for convertibles. these provide access to the capital of a company and are one of the two forms of capital increase. moreover, these securities are intended to be held by the public and will be increasingly so in the future. the compromise reached by the presidency seems satisfactory on this point. the second difficulty is the delegation of powers by the authority. in the states where such a delegation exists, the stock exchanges to which these tasks are delegated have often become private for-profit entities. they are thus de facto both judge and party in the examination of the prospectuses. this clearly raises problems as regards the quality of the examination of the prospectus and possible distortions of competition. the eight-year period provided for in the presidency package for member states to adjust to this industrial reality seems to me to be the most acceptable. this should make it possible to terminate this delegation. these two questions remain essential. a few other details should also be mentioned here: the possibility for smes or natural persons considered as qualified investors to waive this status; the fact that if a competent authority has not examined a prospectus within the given deadline, it is considered to be adopted; the problem of languages, which i have briefly mentioned. in conclusion, mr president, i hope that parliament will vote in favour of the compromise of the greek presidency, which is a mutually acceptable solution.
mr president, i would like to join my colleagues in congratulating mr christopher huhne on the unquestionable quality of his report and his sense of compromise, which, if the report is adopted, will make it possible to make decisive progress on one important point, the unification of the financial markets. i think we are all convinced that it is in the interests of all of us here to move quickly and to conclude quickly, avoiding a conciliation that nobody wants. conciliation is what's left when compromise has failed. i think that the one we have achieved is relatively satisfactory. it is not perfect for anyone, but it does not injure anyone and is therefore an interesting basis. we had several problems, but we were satisfied - and this is a victory for parliament - with the choice of the competent authority. i think that is something the rapporteur was very keen on and he succeeded in doing. our concerns were first of all the conditions for issuing visas and the time taken for the examination. a balance had to be struck between the requirement for speed for organisations wishing to invest and the seriousness of the examination of their application by the competent authority. on this point, the compromise is satisfactory. the language regime was also a problem. it is essential that everyone understands what this is about. the common position may be imperfect, but i believe it offers sufficient guarantees. the delegation of certain tasks by the competent authority to a more technical body aroused our very strong concerns about what i would call the drift of 'lamfalussism', that is to say the fact of being led to entrust quasi-regulatory activities to technical bodies, specialised, not very transparent and weakly controlled. it was essential to set a time limit limit on these possibilities of delegation. the committee report did not say so, but the compromise does. he sets the age at eight. it is a long process, but at least we are sure that in the end this possibility of delegation will have been realised, and i think that is very good. finally, there was the question of convertibles. should the convertible aid be treated as equity securities or not? on this point, the compromise does not call for a vote by the committee which we found unsatisfactory, because convertible bonds must be treated as equity securities and on this important point we are fully reassured. that is why, mr president, i think we must all vote for these amendments and accept the compromise which has been put before us. the amendments tabled by mr turchi will remain on the table, although they are interesting, but they are more than a debate, they are an opening of pandora's box. these are intelligent amendments, but since they call into question many aspects of the definition of titles, it is better to close the pandora's box so that we can reach a good decision in a short time, as the rapporteur wishes and as our group calls for.
- in the debate between the council and parliament on public procurement in the european union, what is striking is how the most bitter enemies of statism forget their reluctance when it comes to competing for state contracts. they're interested in the state's money. indeed, how could the large building and public works trusts have built financial empires without the state's orders? how would the arms trusts survive without public money? the so-called market economy is a state-supported economy. the fact that harmonisation in public procurement is progressing so slowly is no coincidence. the big industrial groups would like to keep captive access to their national state's money and access to the public money of the neighboring country. as for the conditions for awarding contracts, the rules which are beginning to be laid down show a cynicism which borders on sincerity in their administrative aridity. the tendering conditions are based solely on the economic interest of the tender. environmental and health requirements, as greenpeace and friends of the earth rightly denounce, are forgotten, as are the working conditions and pay of workers in companies that pocket public money. and so many other things have been forgotten, including archaeological research. finally, the general interests of society were forgotten! all that matters is profitability. social organisation is reduced to a balance sheet. furthermore, under the pretext of coordinating the procedures for the water, energy, transport and postal services contracts, the council seeks to make it clear that these are precisely markets and not vital services for society as a whole. no, you can't! these services of water, energy, transport and postal services must be and remain public services. they cannot be granted to these private groups who are concerned with their profits and not with the interests of the users. (applause) i would like to thank
commission. mr president, thank you for giving me the floor a second time on this important matter. i would like to reply to some of the points raised. i would like to elucidate what i said earlier so that no misunderstandings remain between what this parliament would like to see the commission do, and what the commission itself intends to do. firstly i refer to what mr maccormick said right at the beginning of this debate, which was also repeated by other speakers. mr maccormick referred to the current state of jurisprudence. in accordance with that jurisprudence, the common position already clarifies that environmental characteristics and social clauses may be used as award criteria and that it is not necessary that each and every award criterion taken individually can be shown to provide an economic benefit for the contracting authorities or entities. it is sufficient that taken as a whole the award criteria can carry out their proper function, which is to allow an objective evaluation and comparison of the intrinsic qualities of the products or services offered and by the award of the contract to the most economically advantageous tender. here i would also refer to mr harbour's remarks, with which the commission agrees. secondly, mrs thors and mr junker referred to production methods. i should like to reply that regarding the amendments which aimed to insert explicit references to production methods, the commission is of the opinion that it is superfluous to do so since production methods are a part of the environmental characteristics which, as i have just said, are already allowed for. furthermore, they are explicitly referred to as examples of legitimate technical specifications. i then come to my third point, which was also raised by mr maccormick. in article 53 the words 'for the contracting authority' are explained by recital 44 as meaning that the best tender will be assessed according to what the contracting authority will have defined as its requirements. recital 44 further clarifies that this encompasses requirements addressed to satisfy the needs of the public concern in the case of the ruling about the need to limit air pollution for the population of the city of helsinki. mr koukiadis gave us a further example of valid award criteria under article 53 – the needs of handicapped people, which should be taken into account. in the case of transport services – for example better access to buses for handicapped people – would certainly be a valid criterion. there is no doubt about that. my fifth point refers to the phrase 'economically most advantageous', which mr herman schmid and a number of speakers mentioned. in reply to those comments, the most economically advantageous tender would be the result of a combination of economic but also qualitative criteria, and the latter would serve not necessarily to calculate the costs for the contracting authority, but would certainly help that contracting authority to make up its mind. my penultimate point refers to labels, which mr jonckheer mentioned. as the common positions clearly show, the commission is in favour of clarifying the role of eco-labels in public procurement and the possibility of referring to them when defining technical specifications. it should be kept in mind, however, that unlike 'ordinary' european standards, european eco-labels do not replace other competing eco-labels such as pluri-national ones. the commission's proposals on eco-labels had foreseen such replacement, but this was not accepted during the legislative process. the current situation is, therefore, that different eco-labels may exist side by side even if they cover the same aspects. it would therefore not be appropriate – indeed, it would be contrary to established policy in the environmental field – to introduce a preference for european eco-labels over other eco-labels. the commission is conscious that references to the performances underlying eco-labels rather than to simply require the labels themselves may be more complicated for purchasers. this task has been rendered easier through a database created by the commission which lists the different performances defined in eco-labels that can be used in connection with award procedures. i can add that a practical guide to green procurement will be published later this year. finally, i should like to deal with the questions put by mrs thorning-schmidt and mr hughes as to why the commission is going back on current law as interpreted by the court of justice in the helsinki buses case. my answer quite simply is as follows: it is simply not true that the common positions are more restrictive than the interpretation of current law given by the court of justice in the helsinki buses case. on the contrary, through the combination of recitals and articles, the common positions consolidate and clarify the possibilities offered by current law. they do not add anything to or subtract anything from current possibilities, but they have the merit of setting these out explicitly instead of having to rely on interpretations of jurisprudence with all the ensuing possibilities for different use and consequent legal uncertainty on this crucial issue. moreover, they clarify that under the same conditions as set out by the court of justice, the use of social award criteria is also legitimate. i should like to end by expressing the hope that in its vote parliament will support the common position so that we can get these directives onto the statute book as quickly as possible.
- mr president, i would simply like to point out that last week i tried to go to the prison in villeneuve-les-maguelone where the peasant leader josé bové was imprisoned. i tried to assert a right recognized to every french parliamentarian: that of meeting the prisoner of his choice. after almost two hours of hesitation on the telephone with the french ministry of justice, i was told - surprising as it may seem - that a member of parliament elected in france by universal suffrage is not a french parliamentarian, that is to say that, being at european level, i did not have the right which all my parliamentary colleagues at national level enjoy. i would be very grateful if you could intervene with france so that in future the work of a european parliamentarian is no longer hindered. perhaps more generally, our institution could also consider the limitations that could be placed on our capacity to work in the light of the rights and protocols enjoyed by our counterparts in national parliaments. i am sure that if the secretary-general could report to the bureau of the european parliament and suggest steps to be taken with the national authorities, our assembly would be more respected.
- mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, i shall concentrate my speech on a subject which has hardly been discussed at the thessaloniki european council, although it is of considerable importance. i would like to refer to the document presented by mr javier solana entitled 'a safer europe in a better world'. i had repeatedly called for a reaction from the european union to the publication on 20 september of the new us strategic doctrine, the first application of which was the 'preventive' war against iraq. nine months after washington, the council has thus just produced its own strategic doctrine. it is perhaps a coincidence that this text was drawn up on the eve of the transatlantic summit. what does it say? i quote: 'in the face of new threats, the first line of defence will often be abroad. the new threats are dynamic. if nothing is done to stop them, they will become more dangerous". this quote sheds light on the meaning of another sybiline sentence in the document: 'preventive action can help to avoid problems in the future. we should be ready to act before a crisis occurs". and then, in case things are still unclear, i quote: 'in states in disarray, military instruments may be necessary to restore order.' and generally speaking, i always quote: 'we must develop a strategic culture that encourages early, rapid and, if necessary, vigorous interventions.' finally, the must: 'working together, the european union and the united states can be a formidable force for good in the world.' one can't help but wonder at the mimicry of the ideas and even the language of the tenant of the white house. in the aftermath, mr prodi, if i believe the news agencies, even let his enthusiasm explode before president bush, saying, and i quote: 'when europe and the united states are united, no enemy can stand against us.' but united on what basis and for what? mr prodi, here is the question. we will not be satisfied with the respect of an american administration which despises europeans, even the most conciliatory of them. i am convinced of that. europe will exist as an indispensable global player only when it has the political will to use its economic weight, its political influence and its capacity to forge strong partnerships, particularly with the south, to bring about the emergence of rules other than those currently in force, for a globalisation that is more solidary, more democratic and for a world of peace. the document presented in thessaloniki turns its back on such a perspective and gives an apocalyptic description of the threats without ever delving into their causes. the middle east conflict is covered in four and a half lines of 15 pages of text. the concept of the struggle for security developed there favours the military dimension, although this approach has proved ineffective from kabul to baghdad and even to the united states itself, whose vulnerability was tragically highlighted on 11 september 2001, although this country alone accounts for 40% of the world's military expenditure. in this context, the references in the council document to the multilateral system sound hollow. the wto, the international financial institutions and nato are the main subjects discussed. the united nations is mentioned only to ask in the future that the european union be prepared, i quote, 'to act when its rules are not respected'. this can be seen as a warning to the security council members who had challenged george bush's material breach argument for going to war with un backing. for all these reasons, mr president, my group considers that the adoption of this first draft of the new strategic doctrine of the european union would be a turning point whose implications we must clarify and highlight the dangers to our fellow citizens. given the recent strength of the mobilization of european public opinion, both in the west and in the east, against the logic of war and american hegemony, i am sure you will have to explain yourself. i would like to invite my colleagues, who are motivated by this challenge to civilisation, to participate today at 3 p.m. in the hearing on this subject by two eminent experts, one european, mr pascal boniface, the other american, mr philip golub. let's open the debate. the whole meaning of the future of europe is at stake. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, the draft treaty presented by mr giscard d'estaing is only one draft constitution among others. it is also, to a large extent, the personal project of mr giscard d'estaing since the other members of this convention, after purely formal debates, were left in the dark about a text concocted for the most part in the secrecy of the praesidium. to claim otherwise is just propaganda, and it is common practice in brussels. this text, which is unreadable to the layman, is nothing but a new attempt to create a centralised and unitary european state, a kind of super maastricht. it increases the powers of brussels by various legal devices and, under the guise of so-called shared competences, it organises the removal of elected national leaders. no, mr badinter, the eurosceptics have not yet said their last word! it will therefore be up to the next intergovernmental conference to oppose these dreams and delusions, in particular by deleting from the draft treaty - if there is one - the words or expressions 'constitution', 'constitutive', 'federal' - perhaps the worst of all! - 'law' or 'framework law', 'shared competence', 'subsidiarity' - synonymous with 'integration', 'legal personality', 'enhanced cooperation', 'citizenship' and, in general, all that falls within the scope of article 308 of the present treaties. i hope that some of the governments concerned - and not just the british government - will resist this attempt to undermine the democracies they are responsible for without resorting to the illusory and temporary facilities of opt-out or the trivial legal formula which can be used for all subsequent interpretations.
- mr president, at this european council i was struck, once again, by the gap between the heads of state and the citizens. how can we ask the latter to be enthusiastic about the creation of a super-minister of foreign affairs - bombed vice-president of the commission -, about the appointment of a president of the european council or about all these texts that are totally out of their reach or sound hollow? more competences for europe for more member states? okay, but with what budgets? more qualified majority votes? what's the point? mr blair sees it as a condition for further liberalisation, while on the same side of the political spectrum others see it as a condition for the advent of social europe. it doesn't take a great cleric to know that there will be disappointments. this draft constitution, which aims to stifle the states, is, in my opinion, incompatible with democratic expression. i do not want our states, deprived of decision-making power, to become the regions of europe. the convention did not need the mandate of the people for this. this draft constitution, drawn up by a non-representative convention, has no legal value and even less added value for the citizen. i hope that the final text will allow national parliaments to effectively control subsidiarity so that europe can no longer do everything. however, it will be up to the people to decide by referendum whether they accept to dissolve into a european-style democracy made up of all the pieces, still giving the best to a powerful democracy.
- mr president, the thessaloniki council stated in its conclusions that the draft european constitution prepared by the convention was - i quote - a good starting point for the intergovernmental conference which will open next october. this expression is interesting because it shows that although the convention has done a lot to clear the ground, there is still a long way to go before an acceptable text is reached. the intergovernmental conference, which will have more than six months before 1 may 2004, will have to work in three directions: i am addressing the next italian presidency as much as the greek presidency. first, the proposed text does not respect the necessary balance between cooperation mechanisms and respect for national sovereignty, which are the two pillars of the original community method. in reality, this unbalanced text is sliding towards a predominant supranational system, a superstate which will further isolate europe from its peoples. then, the third part will have to be seriously reviewed, which the convention has not looked at at all so far and which it will only be able to correct on technical aspects before 15 july. however, very important questions of principle remain. for example, it is impossible to leave the section on agriculture untouched, since it does not mention our current objectives, namely the preservation of our model, food independence, food security, nature conservation, all objectives that can only be achieved through multifunctional agriculture and regional preference. finally, the preamble will have to be rewritten because it omits two essential points. first of all, and this is incredible, he doesn't say a word about nations, except by a vague allusion to national stories. but the nation is not just a thing of the past. it is above all the first political reality experienced by our citizens and the most effective framework for democracy today. secondly, the preamble does not say a word about christianity either, which deserves to be mentioned at least on an equal footing with humanism, not only as a historical reference but above all as the faith in god of a majority of europeans. thus, in two essential points, the nation and christianity, the present preamble overlooks what constitutes the very essence of europe. this is unacceptable, mr president, for a text which is so solemn.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the greek presidency again this morning for the quality of its cooperation and congratulate it on its work during a particularly rich and difficult six-month period. i also want to say, after thessaloniki, that i was astonished to see the gap between the enthusiastic media reception of mr valéry giscard d'estaing's sovereign remarks and the many criticisms voiced behind the scenes or in their capitals by the representatives of many member states. finally, i would like to repeat that without a clearly defined social dimension, without genuine european spatial planning, without major european public services, without the attributes of a genuine european citizenship which respects the necessary pluralism and the real diversity of our histories, cultures and traditions, yes, without all this, europe is doomed to create disillusionment, which will eventually be fatal to its very existence. the igc must therefore improve the draft convention on these points, so that what is called the new treaty of rome can really open the door to a social and citizen-led europe.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to say to mrs maij-weggen that it seems to me to be totally counterproductive, as a member of the convention and a member of the european parliament, to encourage rivalry between small and large states. it seems to me that greece is rather a large european country. i also want to welcome the decision taken in thessaloniki concerning the five balkan countries. i believe that this is an absolutely historic date in the establishment of this great europe, the source of democracy, peace and stability, for which we are all working. i would like to say two things about the convention. the first is that it seems to me that there is an unidentified object in this draft constitution, it is the fourth part. on the third, you give us a mandate to make technical improvements. trust us, we will do it. but as for the fourth part, where did it go? the convention has not really discussed this and i fear that there is a broad consensus within the igc not to say anything about it. in the end, there seems to be complicity in the silence, to say nothing about what is at the heart of a constitution: how can the text be revised, does the text allow for regional unions? when will we talk about it and how? in any case, it seems to me that, according to the laeken mandate, this was also within the competence of the convention. i hope, at the very least, that the intergovernmental conference will be able to be really short and decisive on the rest. as regards the way in which the intergovernmental conference will operate, i believe that the draft of the way in which it will operate was drawn up in thessaloniki, but there are still four absolutely essential points which the heads of state and government must take into account. firstly, they cannot do this igc like any other, like the one in amsterdam or nice. before the new igc, things happened, including the fact that you'll be 25. the situation is not the same. the second important idea is that you are looking at a text that was not prepared by a group of experts or a group of sages, but by 105 conventionalists with no options. so we're way past the good working foundation. the third question concerns the participation of this parliament. we will not accept the treatment we received in amsterdam and nice. it was good, but now we need more and better; the intergovernmental conference itself is of interest. i do not deny the intergovernmental nature of this conference, but in view of the exercise you have undertaken, prepared as it has been, the conference cannot imagine that, all of a sudden, history stops and we return to the previous process as we did before, when there was no convention. hence the importance of the nature of this parliament's participation. the last point is how the igc will work. i am sure, mr president, that you will agree with me on this. the igc cannot operate in the way of opacity, silence or leaks. in order to be able to work and move in the right direction, you will need the support of this parliament, a debate for which there will be official accounts beyond the leaks organized by journalists. i therefore ask you, mr president, when and how all these essential elements for the functioning of the intergovernmental conference will be specified.
- about two weeks ago i was unable to attend a meeting of the committee in brussels because the belgian railways were on strike and i inform you that they are still on strike today.
- i thank the colleague who came before me. i have the impression that in this impromptu debate which you are organising, mr president, everything is being mixed up. firstly, the question of transport, which is indeed a matter of the rules which the european union has adopted through the liberalisation of air transport, which prohibits the equalization of fares and the operation of routes which are not necessarily, immediately and permanently profitable in the light of market law criteria. secondly, the issue of the siege, and on that subject i do not think that the best way to deal with it is to do so through a debate like the one being held here by someone who sometimes mixes his hats. i condemn this approach and i would like to see us in this parliament able to mobilise with the same determination and the same will to promote issues which clearly concern our citizens, such as tax harmonization or the definition of minimum social standards.
mr president, as a french member of parliament who has defended strasbourg, i must say that our colleague mcmillan-scott is a real problem. the solution is certainly not, in my view, to return everyone to brussels and turn brussels into a sort of federal district of the european union. it is in compliance with the treaties and it is in the fact that the french government is finally agreeing to the investments necessary for a proper service to strasbourg. i think that our british colleagues, through this incident, which could just as well have happened, and which has happened on occasion, in the brussels service - i can attest to this as have other members of this house - are nevertheless raising a real problem which could be the subject of a complaint by the authorities of our parliament to the french authorities. however, the highly symbolic character of strasbourg in the construction of europe, its central position and the interest in not concentrating all the authorities of the european union in brussels are all in favour of respecting the treaties and maintaining the city of strasbourg for the meetings of our parliament.
mr president, i would simply like to point out an extravagance which is very common here: the extravagance that it is the responsibility of an institution, however prestigious it may be, to decide unilaterally on its seat. in fact, all the european institutions have seats which are determined by the principle of polycentrism which is the lifeblood of the european union and which has a cost. but the decision on whether it is in the interests of this parliament to have its seat in strasbourg or brussels does not belong to this parliament alone, or else it could be considered that the european council will sit alone somewhere, the court of justice elsewhere, the court of auditors in a third place. the european union is made up of all its institutions. it is therefore up to all the institutions, either by treaty or by joint decision, and not just one of them, to arbitrate this delicate question. i would like to see an end to the nonsense that the institution can decide where it works.
- mr president, i also think that these are just alibis. the transportation problems provide an easy alibi. we all have transport problems, whether we are coming to strasbourg or going to brussels. i would like to see this confirmed by statements made in this house a few months ago. one of our colleagues saw rats everywhere and so on. i think we must now stop and be serious and, as mr bourlanges has just said, take the bull by the horns and respect the treaties.
- the minutes of yesterday's meeting have been distributed. are there any observations?
- my dear colleague, don't worry, the correction will be made. (the minutes were approved) approval of the minutes of the previous sitting: see minutes.
- the agenda calls for joint debate on: - recommendation (a5-0202/2003) for second reading, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on genetically modified food and feed [5204/3/2003 - c5-0133/2003 - 2001/0173 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs scheele), and - recommendation (a5-0204/2003), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the traceability and labelling of genetically modified organisms and the traceability of products intended for human or animal consumption as from 2001 (rapporteur: mrs mellis) and amending directive 2001/18/ec (directive 2001/18/ec) (rapporteur: mr mellis) [1580/01/2003] (c8-0180/01 (cod))
- the gmo regulations should be a major step forward in terms of biosecurity, freedom of choice and consumer information. the two texts under discussion today do not provide any further guidance. the most critical point is the thresholds for the presence of gmos that are allowed when the presence is accidental or technically unavoidable. the council proposes 0.9%. it's too much! we should return to the position adopted by parliament at first reading, which is 0.5% at the most. as for unauthorised gmos, how can the council legalize them in the food chain by proposing a threshold of 0.5% when they are banned in the union? the question of contamination of crops also needs to be addressed. the commission places the responsibility on the member states, while reserving the right to develop guidelines for the coexistence of conventional and genetically modified crops at a later stage. in the immediate future, member states must be able to take emergency measures on a sovereign basis, for example administrative suspensions of authorisations in the event of a risk to public health or environmental contamination. i also think that seeds should be excluded from the regulation, distinguishing between living gmos which must be covered by directive 2001/18/ec - which makes their traceability compulsory - and genetically modified food. finally, a genuine system of liability for the introduction of gmos into agriculture and the environment will have to be defined. i think that the polluter pays principle is applicable here. the farmer using gmos will have to repair the damage caused to conventional farming. in conclusion, i fully support the european moratorium on the complaint lodged by the united states with the wto.
- madam president, we must take the full measure of the problems raised by gmos and above all not reduce them to the sole question of the rapid profitability of the costly research carried out by a few multinational seed companies. first, the question of gmos poses a major sovereignty problem: citizens' sovereignty over the commercial exploitation of scientific discoveries, farmers' sovereignty over what they sow, consumers' sovereignty over their food, states' sovereignty over what they control. secondly, gmos present two major risks. the first concerns human health: there is a risk that the transgene introduced into the plant codes for the synthesis of a toxic protein. the mad cow prion has shown us that certain unwanted proteins can have very long-term toxic effects. the second risk is environmental: the risk of spreading unwanted genes to wild flora and the rhizosphere. the extreme recklessness of the americans who spread gmos over millions of hectares without taking the precaution of properly assessing the risk is deplorable. thirdly, we must ask who benefits from gmos. the benefits for the consumer and the environment are currently nil, as the reduction in pesticide consumption that gmos were supposed to provide is still expected. the farmer's benefit is small: some savings in seed preparation, treatment and weeding but at the cost of increased dependence on seed and plant health companies. for developing countries, the benefit is only theoretical, because the firms have only worked for solvent markets, which makes the american criticism of european countries on this point unacceptable. so it is actually the seed companies that are making the most real profits, and therefore the american multinationals, which are the most advanced in this field. what do you need to do? keep looking, of course. exploring both the potential and the risks of transgenesis, although this technology is extremely expensive and seems more suited to very large-scale crops with very low diversity, which are not characteristic of european agriculture, at least before the fischler plan. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and the council for approval, and the council will be able to accept it.
- madam president, commissioner byrne reminded us earlier that we are meeting today after two years of emotional and controversial work on this important question of gmos, on which our parliament must decide without delay. we should be rational, consistent and firm about what is, after all, a great improvement. however, our discussions today show that there is still a great deal of difference of opinion. while ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market, we must help our farmers in their choices and, above all, ensure a high level of consumer protection. we still have to convince him of the validity of our decisions! the exercise requires us to adopt strict rules on the authorisation and control procedure, i.e. european harmonisation of the scientific criteria for authorisation and full traceability of products to ensure the safety of animal and human food. this too is achieved through communication which is not concerned with ideology. the consumer is often worried because of the lack of accurate information. the need for credible communication to the general public is all the more pressing. the labelling must be clear and legible to allow consumers to make the right choices. the consumer must be sure that all gmos in the products he buys have been assessed in a strict manner for safety reasons. he will then have the choice of buying the products he wants. these texts call for the moratorium to be lifted. once all the guarantees of safety and traceability are in place, the moratorium must be lifted. if we do not do this, we risk once again putting the brakes on research in europe and causing our best researchers to leave for the usa or asia.
- madam president, commissioner, with the two reports by our colleagues trakatellis and scheele, we are dealing once again with gmos, but from the small end of the spectrum. we are talking about traceability, labelling, zero tolerance, maximum thresholds, consumer choice, health, the environment and precautions. meanwhile, who's dealing with gmos in washington? president bush himself, calling on the european union to end its moratorium and even referring to a panel of the world trade organization. and who's handling the gmos around president bush? here's a list of them. there's john ashcroft, attorney general, attorney general, his missouri senate campaign was partly paid for by monsanto, the gmo multinational. there's ronald rumsfeld, secretary of defense, president of a lab that monsanto bought in 1985. ann vaneman, the minister of agriculture, is a member of the board of directors of calgene, the multinational company that created the first genetically modified tomato, flower. there's also linda fischer, number two at the environmental protection agency, former head of monsanto's lobbying office in washington, clarence thomas, a supreme court justice appointed by bush sr., who was a lawyer for monsanto. i could go on and on. what does that mean? that the bush administration treats gmos as a matter of sovereignty: economic, industrial, scientific, food. as with bananas, hormone-rich meats, oilseeds, grains, chickens, the united states is making gmos another battle in the transatlantic agricultural war. and in the meantime, what do we do? the legal system against imperialism. the real question then, madam president, is not scientific, health or environmental. the question has been the same for 40 years: does europe of 450 million people want to be independent? in the persian gulf, it answered no by submitting to the american war. in the gulf of mexico, in cancun, on 14 september, if she says no, it will be an agricultural and tropical munich, but europe is feminine: she loves to be vassal.
- madam president, the feverishness of the sowers in lobbying to convince members to reject the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy is the only reason why we are voting for them despite the limitations of the texts concerned. we are in favour of the most comprehensive traceability and labelling of gmos for food and feed so that the consumer can judge and choose. the problem is not genetic modification itself, nor the research carried out in this direction. the problem is that the exploitation of these products is entirely in the hands of large agro-food trusts, which society cannot trust at all, because they do not seek genetic modification in the interests of men and society, but in terms of what it will bring them. so i also take this opportunity to protest against the imprisonment of josé bové in france. josé bové has at least had the merit of reducing the mistrust towards the use that can be made of gmos. he was convicted of opinion offences and of militant activities. he must be released.
- at a time when josé bové has just been arrested in scandalous conditions for plucking some genetically modified plants, we must not lose sight of the political background of this second reading, namely the feverish will of the commission and the member states, especially since the united states' complaint to the wto in this regard, to lift the 1999 moratorium on gmos. the most positive aspect of this compromise is that it allows member states to take all the measures necessary to avoid contamination of conventional and organic crops by gmos. it would still be necessary for these states to show the necessary political will. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) in foodstuffs. the tolerance for the incidental presence of gmos varies between 0.3 and 0.5% for each species, while the threshold should be the same for all species, namely 0.1%. such a threshold is essential to ensure the varietal purity, traceability and labelling of all seeds along the production chain, and to maintain genuinely gmo-free supply chains. the responsibility of those who introduce gmos into the environment, in particular the seed industries, including european ones, must be clearly established under the polluter-pays principle: the cost of repairing damage must be borne by gmo agriculture. as it is impossible to know precisely the radius of contamination of pollen from a genetically modified plant, it is in the interest of the growers of these plants to find good insurance, unless they manage to educate the bees so that they can be very selective in their harvesting.
- madam president, commissioners, according to a recent eurobarometer survey, more than 70% of europeans do not want to consume gmos. it was therefore necessary to respond to european consumers by adopting legislation on labelling, which should leave everyone the opportunity to choose their food. i would have a few reservations, however. the first concerns the 0.9% threshold. why, when a lower level is technically detectable - the 0.5% threshold being retained for unauthorised gmos - refuse to be less demanding? unless this 0.9% presence is already a reality even before the moratorium is lifted. the second reservation concerns consumer choice. will this choice be guaranteed in time, when we do not envisage binding legislation on the subject of coexistence but leave it to the member states to take appropriate measures? perhaps we already know that this coexistence is impossible, that we cannot regulate the flight of bees or the direction and strength of the wind and that gmo crops are irreversible? if this is the case, we are taking a big risk for europeans, because we cannot limit the subject of gmos to a matter of consumer choice and ignore public health and environmental problems. finally, to date no one has been able to put forward strong, undeniable and convincing arguments to justify the interest and harmlessness of gmos. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. gmos are just one application of biotechnology. refusing to allow gmos to spread in europe is not to be against progress or against gene therapies, it is to prefer the precautionary principle to the ramblings of the sorcerer's apprentice. everyone knows that economic and financial interests still prevail in this area and that the agricultural and environmental future of the european union is at stake under pressure from the united states and negotiations within the wto. this is regrettable, because it must be borne in mind that the united states has not yet ratified the cartagena protocol. it is felt that all this debate and our votes tomorrow are preparing us to accept the lifting of the moratorium without much discussion. our vote will therefore be much more political than it appears and we would be guilty before the citizens if we did not demand, before any decision is taken, to be better informed of the real risks that the cultivation of gmos will have on the environment and on the health of the population. (applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, in france, josé bové is paying with his freedom for his commitment to the prevention of gmos and the precautionary principle. the sanction is totally unacceptable, especially when we compare the threat it poses to society with the threat gmos pose to our future health. we know this better than anyone else, because we have a responsibility to ensure that our fellow citizens have a genuine choice whether to consume or not to consume gmos. we must not be intimidated by the lies and pressure of mr bush, who is being driven by the pro-gmo agribusiness which denies choice to its own consumers. let's move forward, let's dare to change the loopholes in our regulations. we must be very clear that we do not want unauthorised gmos to be placed on the market. as regards the labelling of authorised gmos, we know that the food industry is able to detect up to 0.1% of gmos. this is the way we must go. however, without a guarantee of coexistence between gm and non-gm crops, the best regulations in the world will be useless if gmos are everywhere in nature. it is absolutely urgent to allow free choice of consumption and to protect the environment, to preserve gm-free crops and to ensure that they remain so. that's the real challenge. let us not deceive ourselves: without a guarantee of coexistence, there will be no choice.
commission. mr president, i am delighted to be able to announce to you that, earlier today, the commission adopted a communication on the g10 medicines initiative. for those of you who are not familiar with g10, i would like to briefly explain the background to this initiative. in recent years there has been growing evidence that the european-based pharmaceutical industry was losing competitiveness compared with its american-based counterparts. this is not only serious for our economy but of vital importance to public health and, especially, european patients. millions of europeans use medicines everyday. achieving real and long-lasting benefits to patients is a key objective of pharmaceutical policy. we must support member states to make authorised medicines, especially the newer and more innovative ones, available and affordable to all those who need them as quickly as possible. however, some of the statistics concerning the industry make difficult reading; those pertaining to research and development, for example: critical to our industry, to our science base and to our patients. in 1990 europe was the world leader in pharmaceutical research and development and innovation. now the us has overtaken europe in the discovery of new chemical or biological entities. this has not happened by chance. since 1990, research and development expenditure in the us has grown at a dramatic rate. between 1990 and 2000, research and development expenditure grew at twice the rate in the us compared with europe. by 1997 america had overtaken europe in terms of total research and development expenditure. g10 medicines were born out of this background. in recognition of the critical role the industry plays in both the industrial and health sectors, commissioner byrne and i established the high level group on innovation and the provision of medicines – g10 medicines. it is a small group of high-level representatives from member states, industry, mutual health funds and patients. the group was given the challenging remit of reaching consensus on ways of improving the competitiveness of the pharmaceutical industry in the context of achieving social and public health objectives. to many people’s surprise, the group was able to report back in may last year, with 14 wide-ranging recommendations. in the communication adopted today we set out how we plan to take these recommendations forward. there are five broad themes we pursue in the communication which we intend to take forward in parallel. benefits to patients are at the heart of g10. we will look at ways of improving patient information on medicines, strengthening the role of patients in public health decision-making and so forth. i am sure that in that area my colleague mr byrne will say more. developing a competitive european-based industry takes us back to the origins of g10. we examine ways of improving access to innovative medicines and the need to speed up national negotiations on reimbursement and pricing, greater price competition for medicines that are not part of the state sector and measures to develop competitive generic and non-prescription markets. with regard to strengthening the eu science base: if we fail to support innovation we will pay a heavy economic, social and public health price. we look at ways we can develop incentives for research, including the use of virtual institutes for health to stimulate and organise health and biotechnology research and development. we also link in to the many initiatives under the commission’s existing sixth framework programme. as for medicines in an enlarged union, with the forthcoming enlargement the union is facing one of its greatest challenges and opportunities. we look at ways of meeting the challenge through providing a level playing field for intellectual property protection and providing support for the new member states to implement the new legislative framework. as regards member states learning from each other, benchmarking will provide a practical mechanism for monitoring the implementation of the recommendations, as well as providing a forum for member states to share best practice. so, what is the driving force for implementing the proposals in the communication? the main driving force will be the pharmaceutical review supported by the life sciences and biotechnology action plan and the public health programme. you will be well aware of these, and the pharmaceutical review will obviously have its second reading in the autumn. however, the unique aspect of g10 is the vehicle it provided to look at areas of national competence that have an impact on competitiveness and public health. there is only so much we can achieve at european level. in the communication we set out areas where we believe that a european reflection could benefit member states as well as helping to achieve our g10 goals. in particular, we propose an examination of national pricing and reimbursement systems. although this is clearly within the competence of member states we believe that the injection of more market measures, while ensuring national safeguards to control expenditure on pharmaceuticals, could bring benefits to patients and the industry in terms of quicker access to the markets. overall, i believe the communication, together with the other initiatives i have mentioned, provides a framework for turning around the competitiveness of our pharmaceutical industry while reinforcing european public health.
commission. mr president, in the g10 communication adopted today by the commission we see patients and public health placed at the centre of the debate on the future direction of european pharmaceuticals policy. this rebalancing of policy-making between legitimate industrial innovation and health needs is an important step in the right direction. you have previously heard me say here that our health is our wealth. the development of rising public health standards, the extension of disease-free life-years and the increase in life expectancy are shaping features of modern economic development, and pharmaceutical innovation has played a significant role in all of this. similarly, from a patient point of view, innovation has yielded dramatic improvements in the dignity and quality of life of patients in recent decades. now patients are taking a more active role in seeking out information and products. but at a point where health expenditure is rising, the population is ageing and patients' expectations are increasing, we need to have a strategic vision of how to move forward in this complex field. there are a number of interlinked issues here. for patients, there is a desire to have more effective, more humane products, brought to market more quickly. there is a desire to have better information on the comparative advantages of products and early warning of adverse reactions. for patients, the availability of clear and authoritative information from the leaflet inside the package, to online at the level of a european health portal, is essential. for those who finance the health system, there is a need for sustainable budgeting, affordable medicines, manageable demand and responsible behaviour from patients, prescribers and producers alike. from a public health point of view there is a need to ensure that medicines maintain high quality and safety standards and that adverse reactions are quickly identified and tackled. there is a need to work towards more rational prescribing and consumption patterns, to ensure that we can tackle anti-microbial resistance. in addition there is a need to ensure that research develops products which tackle health requirements as distinct from lifestyle issues. for example, more must be done to develop products that tackle rare diseases and childhood illnesses. and, in an ageing society, medicines will play an important role in ensuring active and healthy ageing – with all its attendant economic and human benefits. for the industries involved, there are a range of specific issues which are being presented to you today. but we need to be aware that an increasingly global industry is less likely to prioritise investment in research for the treatments which europeans will need in 10-20 years' time if they are dealing with a fragmented and unpredictable market. in other words, whilst there will be no shortage of sure-fire lifestyle wonder drugs like viagra, how can we be sure that the medicines needed to tackle arthritis, alzheimer's and obesity, to name but a few, will be developed? it is only by moving towards a more predictable market environment across europe that we will be in a position to convince industry to take the needs of europeans seriously in the years ahead. the high level committee on health has stated that the public health goal of pharmaceuticals policy is 'to make readily accessible, efficacious, high quality and safe medicines, including their most recent innovative ones, to all those who need them, regardless of income or social status'. each of these issues has been addressed in this communication. we have effectively highlighted patients' needs for better information and their need for a stronger voice to influence policy. efforts in both these areas will support their growing role as important decision-makers for health care. the establishment of an eu-funded european patients' platform in february this year is an important step. we have also targeted the medicines themselves, to build up systems that ensure their safety, quality and efficacy. here the g10 put the need for stronger systems of pharmacovigilance and relative effectiveness firmly on the agenda. in this way we aim to improve the rational use of medicines. this is a public health goal that underpins our vision for the pharmaceuticals sector. relative effectiveness is a very important issue for the european union. in june 2000 the council underlined the importance of added therapeutic value both in terms of health protection and from an industrial policy perspective. effective medicines must get quickly to the people who need them. this means identifying which medicines are genuinely effective, not just in the controlled environment of a clinical trial, but in general use amongst the wider population. this is the critical issue at stake here. relative effectiveness is one key tool towards rational use. but, clearly, we have to consider the role of other actors too. how can we improve rational use of pharmaceuticals at the level of the health care prescriber and the consumer? a parallel question might be: how can we know if we have improved the rational use of pharmaceuticals? this brings me to the issue of benchmarking. the recommendation to develop indicators for public health has set us a big challenge. for example, to investigate indicators that could monitor what is happening at the health-care prescriber level. ultimately, the intention is to have a set of indicators that can shed light on what is happening in the pharmaceuticals sector of member states in terms of the extent to which public health needs are being met and in this way to inform policy development at national and european level. finally, the discussion on enlargement is particularly timely. the accession treaties have been signed. although enlargement is one specific recommendation of the g10, clearly our responses to each recommendation need to adequately reflect the changing environment within the european union. the g10 is a first important step to developing a strategic vision of the future health needs of europeans which is affordable, effective, transparent, inclusive and safe. properly pursued it will be good for the health of all concerned.
commission. mr president, i must emphasise that the two proposals are separate as far as the review is concerned. the review is supported by g10 and now has the support of the member states. the g10 process goes further, and so far there has not been any broad discussion in the member states about that. there is, firstly, a proposal from the group and today there are the recommendations from the commission. next week the italian presidency is organising a conference on g10 on the basis of the commission recommendations. we hope that the dissemination of these messages goes forward. as i said, it is now important to get the review through. that is important for research-based industries because it strengthens their position; it accelerates the access to markets for new products; it acts as a counterbalance; and it also means that generics will be more competitive when the patents expire.
mr president, having been a worker for more than thirty years in one of the world's major pharmaceutical groups, i can tell you that the main concern of this industry, whether european or not, is neither the health of the population - and especially not the population that cannot afford to pay for medicines - nor the well-being of the workers it employs and does not hesitate to lay off thousands at the rate of mergers and concentrations in this sector, or to make hard, day and night, even women, to manufacture and package medicines. these practices are all the more scandalous because the pharmaceutical industry is one of the most profitable. in fact, the concern of this industry is the financial health of its shareholders. before a drug is released, large firms first carry out marketing studies, which condition the continuation or interruption of research depending on the market. this means that we are interested in diseases that bring money. worse still, a growing number of men and women are finding it increasingly difficult to get medical care. it is a pity that children in africa and elsewhere are still dying today from diseases such as measles, which we know how to treat perfectly, and it is a pity for the sick with malaria and other diseases that afflict the populations of poor countries. the only decision that could satisfy both the employees of these groups and the patients of the rich countries and the third world would be that this industry should no longer be a private industry where only the interests of a minority matter, but that it should be placed under the control of the populations in the interests of all.
- mr president, i must say that i am quite satisfied to hear mr byrne defend the consumer against the pharmaceutical industry. indeed, at the time, when the issue of the pharmaceutical industry and pharmaceutical legislation was discussed, the prevailing feeling was that it was the european parliament that was defending consumers with very strong amendments, in particular on marketing authorisation, the centralised procedure and consumer protection. the commission's answers to these questions were not necessarily, let us remember, in the sense hoped for by the european parliament. fortunately, i now feel that the council has restored a number of things, such as the five-year recovery, marketing authorisations, marketing authorisations, the centralised procedure and the cessation of direct advertising to patients. all this leads me to ask whether your communication will take up a good part of the amendments to pharmaceutical legislation which parliament adopted by a large majority, in particular in the areas of direct advertising, consumer participation in the central medicines agency, centralised procedure and amendment of the amm files, in a way which really shows your concern for consumer and patient protection?
- commissioners, among your many proposals you mentioned the added value of medicines. i think that is a key point. a large number of new drugs are now coming onto the market, but unfortunately they are rarely innovative. how do you think you can actually get the industry to produce not just new drugs but innovative drugs? you also mentioned the question of the european computer portal. new zealand, for which i speak, is currently working on a system like this and is wondering whether we will enter it through drugs or through diseases and, in the latter case, whether the answers will be about drug therapy or whether different alternative therapies will be offered on these sites.
- mr president, commissioners, i would like to go along with the statement made by mrs corbey, with whom i worked when, under article 169 of the ec treaty applied to the sixth framework programme, a programme on diseases in the southern countries was drawn up. she asked you how difficult it was to mobilize research in this area. you said that commissioner busquin could have given us further answers. without wishing to answer for the commissioner, i simply want to say that there seems to be very little mobilisation in the private sector to contribute to the third of the appropriations foreseen for the abovementioned article 169 programme. as you are working in a college, you may be aware of this: perhaps you can confirm or refute the information i have in this area about the lack of mobilization of private funds needed to implement this programme to combat aids, malaria and tuberculosis? perhaps you also have information on the agreement of the states and thus the mobilisation of public funds? in fact, since the european parliament voted on this report at first reading, we have not heard much. this question is on the fringe of today's debate, but it is still about the same problems. if you have any information to give me in reply, i would be very grateful.
- the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- recommendation for second reading (a5-0191/2003), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2000/13/ec as regards the indication of ingredients present in foodstuffs [15514/2/2002 - c5-0080/2003 - 2001/0199 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs klaß);- report (a5-0216/2003) by mrs ayuso gonzález, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 95/2/ec on food additives other than colours and sweeteners [2002/66 (cod) ] (a5-0191/2003)), on the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2001/13/ec as regards the indication of ingredients present in foodstuffs [15514/2/2002 - c5-0080/2003 - 2001/0199 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs klaß);- report (a5-0216/2003) by mrs ayuso gonzález, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending the council amended directive 95/ec directive on food additives other than colours and sweeteners and colours and sweeteners [2002/66/2003] (a5-0192/05/02)), on the common position of the council amending of directive of the european parliament and council amending directive on the indication of ingredients presenting foodstuffs) and the directive 2000/13/ec as regards the directive of the directive of the
- thank you very much, mrs. klaß. for all colleagues, i will remind you of the rules of the game. we are obliged to adhere very strictly to the speaking time allotted to each of us, as the work will take us almost to midnight. i shall try to strike a systematic hammer to indicate that your time is up. i shall ask you to conclude very quickly.
- mrs lulling, you were registered for two minutes with the services of the session and you spoke for three minutes and twenty-six. in view of the absence of your colleague, mr goodwill, your speaking time has been reduced to three minutes, but not to three minutes and twenty-six seconds. you understand that i have to be very firm if i don't want everyone to go to bed at two in the morning. thank you.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the successive food crises have undermined consumer confidence and food safety is now a genuine political issue, becoming a constituent part of the overall security of citizens. in this respect, the provision of substantial information on the composition of foods is considered essential and accurate and appropriate labelling is essential, in particular for ingredients that may cause allergies. the problem is relatively simple for allergens present as such in the final product. on the other hand, is it reasonable to require the labelling of ingredients such as technological aids, used in particular in the manufacture of alcoholic beverages, which are involved in the manufacturing process but do not end up in the final product? since the best is always the enemy of the good, are we not risking, by wanting to protect people suffering from allergies - which is commendable - to weaken traditional production chains, or even to break markets without scientific proof of the harmful nature of these aids? we can imagine the horror of consumers when they discover the presence of sulphites and other substances with a poor taste in the production of such prestigious wines as champagne or the wines of our beautiful region of alsace, to name just a few. i am therefore pleased that a balanced compromise has been reached on this controversial issue. it states that certain ingredients may be removed from the list of allergens on the basis of a scientifically substantiated dossier, pending a full scientific evaluation. i am sure that, coming from a wine-producing region, i would have preferred that the burden of proof, i.e. the provision of the technical dossier, did not fall on the producers, who are sometimes small production structures, but i am aware that, failing to accept this compromise, we would have to accept the council's common position, which does not envisage any procedure for excluding allergenic ingredients from the list. therefore, even if it is with a laughing eye and a crying eye, it seems appropriate to adopt this compromise, expressing the hope that the commission will give small and medium-sized producers the necessary flexibility to enable them to make their case.
- mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate in particular mrs christa klaß, who has worked very competently on this report and has been able to measure both the benefits and the harmful consequences of a systematic labelling requirement. it fought, defended its case before partners, notably the commission, which was unwilling to listen to the demands of elected representatives. the report by mrs klaß, as adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, was, in my view, the best solution. however, the interests of the two sides, sometimes confused, have become more important, and we have therefore chosen to withdraw. i had in fact suggested it in my amendments tabled in committee, but then i reluctantly agreed to the solution proposed by the rapporteur. today, i am half happy that a half solution is taken up and reworked to satisfy the majority of us. it seems to me that it is sensible to ensure clear and relevant information and a level of protection for allergic consumers. on the other hand, a terrorist label would frighten allergic consumers by putting a brake on their own consumption. symbolic european drinks such as champagne or irish beer, commissioner, would suffer terribly if the whole european wine industry were also affected. tomorrow i will have to defend before the wine sector in my region, champagne-ardennes, the established principle that it is up to producers, large and small, to prove that the derivatives of so-called allergenic products which they use as technological aids in wine are not themselves allergenic, because they are the result of an important processing process from raw materials and are involved in a totally different environment - wine or beer - which fundamentally changes their characteristics. brewers will have to prove that the glass, which has been used for centuries in beer-making, is not a bad product. in short, the burden of proof is on them, but we have bought time to do the research on the matter. in conclusion, i thank the rapporteur and support the solution in amendment no 4. the uen group has co-signed the compromise amendment and accepts its choice.
- i really insist on colleagues respecting their speaking time. i cannot extend the speaking time of each colleague by half, otherwise we shall not sleep tonight. does the commission wish to make a further statement?
- commissioner, one last answer perhaps?
commission. the compromise that was reached related to studies for existing derivative products; that was for a period of nine months after the entry into force of the directive.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the agenda calls for the recommendation (a5-0200/2003) for second reading, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the council's common position with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive amending directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste [14843/1/2002 - c5-0082/2003 - 2001/0291 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs corbey).
- before i give the floor to the commissioner, i would remind those who have joined us for this new debate that we have an extraordinarily busy agenda this evening. so that the last colleagues who are going to speak on the last reports do not see the sun rise in this chamber, i would ask the speakers to stick to the time allotted to them.
commission. mr president, i will make only four short comments. firstly, i would like to repeat that we have no intention to introduce a recycling obligation for ceramics packaging. secondly, in reply to mrs oomen-ruijten, we think that deposits on one-way packaging are in principle acceptable. i know from the country i know best that they have worked for a very long time. mr bolkestein and myself have made clear that we are not satisfied with the current situation in germany, and we have urged the german government to set up a return system in conformity with community legislation, which can also be a nation-wide, one-way deposit. we are taking action and we will continue to do so. thirdly, i have visited ireland so i know the challenge the handling of waste creates in ireland. at the same time, we are open about the cost-effectiveness studies, the cost-benefit studies, that we have made on this particular issue. we have done a very thorough job in comparing these targets and looking at the situation in different countries. we have judged that it is not impossible to reach the targets. however, it is reasonable to accept different target dates for different countries because the pre-conditions are so different. i would also like to make a comment to mrs jackson. unfortunately she has left now, but she asked 'is this out of date?' are we discussing a proposal that is completely out of date or is the timing wrong? there is, of course, a balance in trying to do what we can now and dealing with the acute problems of handling waste, while at the same time preparing for a modern, long-term strategy, which will probably not be following waste stream per waste stream. however, we will try to establish a different type of approach, including what mrs paulsen proposed. hopefully, we will be able to look at the source of the problems, including transport of packaging and packaging waste. i agree that this is the right approach, but the question is extremely complicated, because the whole issue has to be looked at in different ways. we have already released a number of documents where we introduced this long-term thinking. the ipp strategy has to do with this, our resource-use strategy as well as a new waste-recycling strategy. we will therefore have to come back to this. this is a revision of an existing directive but, be assured, we will have to look at the overall approach and discuss this again.
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the agenda calls for the recommendation (a5-0207/2003), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the council's common position with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the community and amending council directive 96/61/ec [15792/1/2003 - c5-0135/2003 - 2001/0245 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr moreira da silva).
commission. mr president, firstly, i am totally convinced that the issue of climate change will follow not only us but generations to come, and it will become more and more difficult and we will have to be more and more ambitious in order to meet this enormous challenge to human life on this planet. this issue will not go away and we will have to deal with it and find solutions. i am also convinced that we will need all the different tools we can find: legislation, as well as voluntary agreements and market-based instruments, like this one. that is also why it is important that we take the initiative and try this out. we have studied carefully the experience already gained with sulphur trading in the us and we have conducted studies. we have also prepared in a prudent way the start of an emissions trading system in europe. i shall just comment on two things that were mentioned. firstly, the treatment of allowances. allowances will be a tradable commodity, just like many other tradable commodities, and it is not different just because it stems from an environmental policy. it will be subject to existing taxation legislation in the union – not different from any other area. on transport, we wanted to start with large, fixed-point installations, whose emissions can be feasibly monitored. the transport sector consists of many small diffuse sources that we thought would be difficult to monitor, administer and control. this has been important in designing this proposal, but we accept that transport also has to be subject of action when it comes to reducing the greenhouse gas emissions. we are happy to look at how this area can also be covered. this is now part of this compromise package. under the text of the directive, the commission is committed to researching how the transport sector could be brought into the scheme. we will also come back on other issues, as you know, which are in the pipeline to link them to joint implementation and the other flexible mechanisms as well. we will also come back on these issues.
commission. mr president, in answer to that question, of course we will see what we can do on air transport also, but we do not have any ready-made plans. as you know we are trying to work in international fora to address this problem. it is already a part of the discussion under the kyoto protocol and we will now have to follow up and see what we can do in order to address the whole transport sector. of course we will also have to look at what it is possible to do regarding air transport. we do not have any ready-made proposals or a set date which we can present to you. however, we will do our best to also address air transport.
- thank you very much for this supplementary information. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the oral question to the commission by mr lannoye and others, on behalf of the green group, on the addition of water and protein to poultrymeat (o-0045/2003 - b5-0099/2003).
commission. in response to the questions that have been put to me by mr whitehead and mrs wallis, let me repeat what i said earlier: i have asked my services to consider the development of standards for meat preparations that would limit the amount of water that could be added to such products and indeed the use of animal proteins for the purpose of bulking. my intention is to analyse the work that has been undertaken by my services, to determine what further work can be done. i agree, to some extent, that labelling may not be sufficient. i, like you, have also watched that television programme. i found that some of the labelling that was identified in the programme indicated that the particular product was 65% chicken. it raises a question for the consumer: what is the other 35%? we have spent a great deal of time in this chamber debating – as we did this afternoon – questions relating to gmos and the labelling of gmos. but it requires some degree of vigilance from consumers: they must read these labels and draw appropriate conclusions. having said that, this does not relieve us from examining the appropriate responses to situations such as this and seeking a more satisfactory response. as i said earlier, in my original answer, i am looking at this. however, i also appeal for some consumer vigilance as a response to the work that we do here in relation to labelling.
- thank you very much, commissioner.
- the next item is the report (a5-0240/2003) by mr mulder, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the 2004 budget with a view to the conciliation procedure before the council's first reading [2003/2027 (((bud)). before i turn to our rapporteur and all the other members who have spoken, i would remind you that it is 11.40 p.m. we have a very large number of speakers and this is not the last debate on the agenda. i therefore ask everyone to respect his speaking time.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0233/2003) by mr färm, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the 2003 budget: implementation profile, transfers of appropriations and amending and supplementary budgets [2003/2026 (bud) ].
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the motion for a resolution (b5-0320/2003) on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on trafficking in children and child soldiers.
- mr president, the european parliament has already spoken twice on the question of child soldiers, in 1999 and 2000. so why use the emergency procedure today for a new resolution which, of course, goes further, since it covers not only child soldiers but also all forms of child trafficking? well, because the problem is growing and the european union is not showing enough determination. 300,000 children, boys and girls, are enlisted in combat units in over thirty countries. every year, 1.2 million children are trafficked, and trafficking is now a booming 'industry' worth nearly €3 billion a year. after drug trafficking and small arms trafficking, it is the third most lucrative criminal activity in the world. the fight against this senseless scourge of the 21st century should be a major focus of the union's development policy. this is not the case - alas! at international level, however, there is a growing mobilisation, as evidenced by the entry into force in 2002 of the optional protocol to the united nations convention on the sale, prostitution and pornography of children. we urge the council to encourage the member states, which are still too few to have done so, to ratify this protocol. we also call for the rights of the child to become a political priority of the union, reflected in budgetary arbitrage by an adequate budgetary allocation on a specific line, in order to enhance its effectiveness and readability, as well as a common strategy. of course, the council of 10 december 2002 has accepted the principle, but the text must be published and operational without delay. to this end, our resolution proposes a number of ways, such as the appointment of a high representative for the rights of the child, a policy of cooperation based on prevention, support and protection of victims, better cooperation with countries of origin and international mandates against the organisers and perpetrators of this unnamed trafficking.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the commission welcomes the draft report on the rights of the child drawn up for the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. it highlights the enormous challenge facing the international community in protecting children's rights. first, on the subject of child soldiers: the european union supports the un special representative and welcomes the initiatives of the un security council, in particular resolution 1460 of 30 january 2003. the european union calls on all states to ratify the optional protocol to the convention on the rights of the child and to accelerate the ratification of the rome statute of the international criminal court, which defines the recruitment and use of children under the age of 15 or their use in hostile conflicts as a war crime. at political level, the european union is seeking a common position on the issue of child soldiers. in december 2002, the council approved the development of a strategy or guidelines on this subject. unicef and other stakeholders then organised a meeting of children's rights experts on 14 march 2003. the recommendations made at this meeting emphasise, inter alia, the importance of a pre- and post-conflict strategy and the need to make this issue a cross-cutting issue in the whole european union decision-making process. the council working party on human rights will in due course consider what steps should be taken next. the following is to be said about european funding for measures to help children in armed conflict: for echo, children are a key focus of humanitarian aid. this commitment is reflected in concrete projects, advocacy and research activities. children are one of the three priorities of echo's strategy for the current year. secondly, to combat trafficking in children: the european union has taken a number of initiatives at legislative, political and financial levels. in 2002, the council adopted the framework decision on combating trafficking in human beings and reached political agreement on the draft framework decision on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. on the initiative of the commission, the european conference on the prevention and combating of trafficking in human beings - a global challenge for the 21st century - was held from 18 to 20 september last year. the brussels declaration was a concrete outcome of the conference. the commission then decided on 25 march 2003 to set up an advisory group of experts on trafficking in human beings, which will assist the commission in putting forward further concrete proposals at european level. in particular, the group should submit a report to the commission based on the recommendation of the brussels declaration. in 2002, the stop ii programme funded 16 projects to combat trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation, with a total of more than eur 1.7 million. the tacis and cards programmes also support projects to combat trafficking in human beings in eastern and south-eastern europe, and an action plan against trafficking in human beings has also been developed in the framework of the eu-africa dialogue. third, in the area of 'children and development', the commission pursues the millennium development goals as its objectives, in particular the achievement of universal primary education and the reduction of infant and child mortality. although children are not specifically targeted by our development policy, they benefit from extensive resources in the areas of education, health, aids and population policy. finally, the cotonou agreement contains specific provisions for the protection of young people, particularly in the fight against child labour. in order to promote these objectives, the commission has also strengthened its cooperation with the world labour organisation as a whole. in conclusion, i would like to note that the report contains many interesting proposals for strengthening the european union's commitment to children's rights. the community does not currently have specific competence in this area. we are, however, looking forward with interest to the outcome of the discussions on the draft constitutional treaty, the convention for europe, which for the first time makes the protection of children's rights a specific objective of the european union. thank you for your attention.
- thank you very much, commissioner, for that detailed answer. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (the sitting was closed at 038 hours) the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97).
mr president, a number of us have a special affection for italy, for the extraordinary vitality of its society, the creativity of its people, its exceptional cultural heritage, its rich local and citizen democracy. we love the italy of the great popular mobilizations for employment, social justice and equality; the italy of the powerful anti-war movement; the italy of the citizens' demonstrations in genoa against social and police violence; the italy of the european social forum in florence; the italy of the european parliament and the european commission in strasbourg; the italy of the european parliament in strasbourg; the italy of the european parliament in strasbourg; the italy of the european parliament in strasbourg; the italy of the european parliament in strasbourg; the italy of the european parliament in strasbourg; the italy of the european parliament in strasbourg; the italy of the european parliament in strasbourg; the italy of the european parliament in strasbourg; the italy of the european parliament in strasbourg; the italy of the european parliament in strasbourg; the italy of the european parliament in strasbourg; the italy of the european parliament in strasbourg; the italy of the european parliament in strasbourg; the italy of the european parliament in strasbourg; the italy of the european parliament in strasbourg; the italy of the european parliament in strasbourg; the italy of the european parliament in strasbourg; the italy of the european parliament in strasbourg; the italy of the european parliament in strasbourg; the italy of the european parliament in strasbourg; the italian parliament in strasbourg; the european parliament in strasbourg; the parliament in strasbourg; the parliament in strasbourg; the parliament in strasbourg; the parliament in the parliament; the parliament in the parliament; the parliament in the parliament; the parliament, in the parliament, in the parliament, in the parliament, in the parliament, in the parliament, in the parliament, in the parliament, in the parliament, in the parliament, in the parliament, in the parliament, in the parliament, in the parliament, in the parliament, in the italy is young, demanding, enthusiastic and combative because it is convinced, as its main slogan underlines, that another europe is possible and that it is determined to make it emerge. the other europe is a europe that is giving itself the means to loosen the grip of liberal globalisation, in order to secure the employment, training, retirement and social protection of its citizens, to guarantee genuine public services, to improve the living conditions, in a word, to put people's lives above the demands of the market. this other europe is a europe based on ethics and equality before the law, banning elitism and exclusion, outlawing privilege and submission, eradicating the poison of intolerance, racism and xenophobia from within our societies and from our relations with the world. this other europe is a europe freed from american tutelage, which dares to make another voice heard in the major international institutions in order to tackle, together with its allies in the south, the acute wounds that are making the planet increasingly unlivable and dangerous, namely poverty, underdevelopment, ecological disaster and war. like us, this beautiful and rebellious italy does not fit in with the current guidelines of the european union. all the more so because she is repulsed by the policies of the ruling team in rome. it is a caricature of european orientations. its liberalism is unbridled, its atlanticism unconditional, its taste for democracy rather moderate. one of the priorities of this presidency is a pharaonic infrastructure project. it would merit a careful examination on a case-by-case basis, since there are clear needs, such as a railway-wide programme at union level. however, relying on private capital to carry out such work that is profitable in the very long term is a sure way to failure in terms of employment, growth and quality of services. another priority of this presidency is to force the pace of the dismantling of the pension and social protection acquis, which is the hallmark of the most conservative powers. as for the immigration and asylum issues, which are to be finalised during the current six-month period, it is a source of great concern that this ultra-sensitive debate should be polluted by the barbaric rhetoric of one of the figures in the ruling coalition. we finally learned yesterday that the new strategic doctrine of the union, the draft of which was already causing great concern before the italian presidency, will have to be formally adopted by next december. extreme vigilance will therefore be necessary in all respects throughout these six months. if the constitutional process under way makes sense, let us start by ensuring that article 2 of the draft convention, which is devoted to the values of the union and reads as follows: 'the union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. these values are common to the member states in a society characterised by pluralism, tolerance, justice, solidarity and non-discrimination.' (applause from the left)
- mr president-in-office of the council, after duly welcoming your arrival at the head of the european union, i must immediately express my deep disagreement with the main emphasis you intend to place on your presidency: to put the european union in the wake of the united states of america. the european peoples do not want that and they have shown this during the war in iraq. nor is it the choice of the european institutions. so, like parliament, the commission, through the voice of commissioner patten - who is not a dangerous leftist - and through that of mr prodi - who is perhaps a little more so - and even the council, at least in appearance, have expressed their attachment to a multilateral world under the aegis of the united nations and not under the aegis of the united states. this is the affirmation of a european identity of its own that europeans expect. a public opinion has been formed, mr berlusconi. don't let her down. what would be the point of this so-called constitution, which is - whether we welcome it or not - a considerable leap towards european sovereignty, if our continent were to become a branch of the american empire? mr president, since this treaty is to be signed in rome at the beginning of may 2004, i hope you will be prepared to propose to your colleagues at the intergovernmental conference that this constitution be submitted to a referendum by the peoples of europe, who alone are sovereign and therefore have the right to withdraw from it. finally, mr president, the ministerial conference of the world trade organisation - a name which seems more appropriate to me than the world trade organisation - will be held in cancun during your presidency. in the same spirit, i hope that this meeting will not be an opportunity for our old europe, to which we are rather attached, to sacrifice its cultures, its ways of life, its community, on the altar of unbridled free trade. already, our agriculture has been more or less remodelled in accordance with the rules of the world trade organization. i fear that our cultures, our identities and our specificity, which has been the matrix of world civilizations, will suffer the same fate.
- mr president, allow me to say, mr president-in-office, that we have confidence in the italian presidency. we know that you will be able to combine political will and a spirit of conciliation to advance the construction of europe. in the international field, transatlantic relations are of course fundamental. the european union, as it has just done in washington, must talk more regularly with the united states. issues which are the subject of conflict between the two sides of the atlantic, such as environmental protection, should be the subject of a more pragmatic approach. we share the view of the italian presidency that a short igc is necessary, taking up the draft constitution of the european convention as it stands if possible and, above all, not reopening the pandora's box of national requests. we are about to adopt a common constitution ready for the day. let us seize this unique opportunity and mobilize for the new constitutional treaty of rome. in parallel with the enlargement of the union, citizens must feel safe within the borders of a union that is vigilant against external threats such as illegal immigration, organised crime and terrorism. it is now up to us to show our determination to fulfil the wishes of the thessaloniki european council. on the economic front, the italian presidency's plan to give new impetus to the transeuropean road, rail and sea transport network and to the research and development project is a necessity. as the french prime minister, jean-pierre raffarin, has pointed out, the pact binding the europeans is called the 'stability and growth pact'. we are therefore in favour of the european union taking initiatives in this second area. the representative of the overseas regions, myself, stresses the importance for the social cohesion of the union of making every effort to decentralize the regions far from the centre of europe. europe's solidarity is based on this effort. we can only encourage the new presidency, in the run-up to the euro-mediterranean conference in naples on 2 and 3 december, to develop its relations, particularly in the fields of trade, agriculture, infrastructure and migration, in order to avoid the barcelona process being blocked. finally, we strongly encourage any european and national policy aimed at promoting linguistic diversity. a europe rich in 20 languages and so many cultures cannot be reduced to a europe of one language. but this requires efforts on the part of all of us and we expect the new presidency to take concrete initiatives in this area.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, i have a confidential matter to tell you: i prefer your gentle presentation to that of the french prime minister, who yesterday, here in strasbourg, came to play the part of the divider of the fatherland. so, and i hope you'll see that in this debate, beyond words and deeds, we'll judge you. and you know that this parliament has high ambitions for your year: a successful igc. this is the ambition of this parliament, this is the ambition of my group for a european democracy that works at all levels, whether at european level or in each of our member states, in compliance with this charter of fundamental rights which we have just incorporated into the draft constitution. i have just discovered your programme, very late, in english - unfortunately i do not read italian - and i have discovered that it mentions jacques delors' white paper again. i am glad of that, because i think jacques delors was right. it is simply that since jacques delors proposed to the union this great project of crossborder networks and european infrastructures, we have been faced with the same problem: financing. you mention the idea of eib financing, but the eib is still a bank. you will not find a solution outside the european loan. are you prepared, mr president-in-office of the council, to fight for a european loan to finance this great work? otherwise, it's just words and more words. in the end, is this recovery plan a recovery plan for european growth, or simply for the italian economy which is struggling to comply with the stability pact?
- mr president, i wish to express my best wishes for the italian presidency and i hope that this presidency, which comes at a very important time for the future of europe, will be both harmonious and effective. i join what both sides have already expressed, namely the will to give birth during this presidency to a new constitutional treaty. italy is a great european country, it is also a country of great europeans and i am sure that, true to that heritage, the president-in-office of the council, the president of the commission and the vice-president of the convention will be keen to come together on the essentials to give europe a new face. i hope that the new constitution which we will adopt by referendum will have a great merit in my eyes: that of finally coming into being. but this fundamental text must be a starting point for a new europe and not an end in itself. i believe that the next elections will be an opportunity for our citizens to express their wish to go further in european common policies, whether it be the coordination of economic, budgetary, fiscal and social policies, the creation of a europe of defence and research or the definition of a common foreign policy to finally have a say in the world. this will be the next challenge for those who like the idea of a europe that goes beyond us and brings us together. the italian presidency will also have a great responsibility to make progress in the fields of education and culture. you will have to take the europe of knowledge forward and i hope that we can adopt the erasmus mundus programme as soon as possible so that it can be implemented as early as 2004. finally, i would like to draw your attention to the meeting of the unesco general assembly in october 2003, which is expected to deal with the draft international convention on cultural diversity. a clear and explicit union position on this project is more than desirable. in conclusion, i would like to express the hope that the spirit of the signatories of the treaty of rome will be present during this italian presidency.
in writing. - the italian presidency has identified immigration policy and the fight against illegal immigration as one of its priorities, and we assure it of our support. we hope in particular that it will be clearer and more resolute than the council of thessaloniki two weeks ago. although it devoted a large part of its conclusions to immigration policy - seven and a half pages, compared with one and a half pages for the convention! - the council was particularly obscure, if not impossible to understand, defining its objective in particular as a 'two-way process' aimed at both combating illegal immigration and 'searching for legal migration routes'. europe needs a clear and firm policy on border controls, returning illegals to their countries and reforming the right to asylum to put an end to abuses. in this respect, we regret that the thessaloniki council did not really deal with the uk's request to create transit centres for asylum applications at the external borders of the union and 'regional protection zones' close to the countries of origin of applicants. we are counting on the italian presidency to take this matter forward.
in writing. - during this second reading of the draft regulation on genetically modified food and feed (scheele report), i voted in favour of the following amendments, which are considerably more stringent than those adopted by the council:- amendments lowering the labelling threshold for authorised gmos from 0.9 to 0.5%, in particular amendment 19; - amendments to remove the tolerance of unauthorised gmos in the food chain, when their percentage is less than 0.5%, in particular amendment 43 (by the way, one wonders how the council can propose a threshold of 0.5% here, when it claims that it is technically impossible when it comes to the threshold for the labelling of authorised gmos); - amendments calling on the member states to take measures to prevent the non-contamination of traditional crops by gm crops (compromise amendments 44 and 45); - amendments authorising member states to take emergency measures to restrict or prohibit the use of an authorised gmo, when it is later found to present a risk (e.g. amendment 40). beyond these technical issues, i will set out my position in principle in my explanation of vote on the side report on the traceability of gmos.
in writing. - in the series of amendments which came up for second reading we voted in favour of everything that goes in the direction of transparency and the most complete possible labelling. we voted against the compromise amendments which would in fact support the lifting of the moratorium.
in writing. - on the subject of gmos, we do not want europe to make a careless commitment, as the united states has done, to the thoughtless and uncontrolled large-scale distribution of genetically modified organisms, guided by the sole interest of the firms that produce them. but we also do not want it to be left out of the picture of a technology which may hold some hope for the feeding of mankind. faced with a technology that allows man to manipulate the genome, that is to say to act on the very heart of life, it is essential that society should ask itself questions and that the necessary ethical debates should not be ignored. it is the duty of the public authorities to legislate and regulate. the sovereignty of states implies that they retain the power to admit into their territory only products which are desired, chosen and corresponding to a real need. the cartagena protocol on biodiversity recognizes this right. let us use it to the full to maintain our control over the cultivation of gmos in europe. the freedom of choice of the consumer and the producer also implies that the necessary measures are taken to ensure the coexistence of production using gmos and production not using gmos.
in writing. - the trakatellis report on the traceability and labelling of gmos, like the scheele report, is an opportunity for us to address a serious warning to the commission and the member states. we feel that they are only waiting for the final adoption of the traceability regulations to lift the moratorium currently imposed on gmos in europe. the adoption of this regulation would therefore serve as a guarantee, even though two other essential conditions are still not fulfilled: the existence of a clear definition of liability (with corresponding financial guarantees) for damage that may be caused by gmos and the entry into force of rules - which do not exist at present - that safeguard the non-contamination of traditional crops by gm crops. the last point is essential: it is recalled that the trade union leader josé bové was convicted in france for plucking transgenic maize plants, an act considered as a violation of a private property right. but was not this violation preceded by another, much more serious violation, namely, the risk of contamination by gmos to neighbouring private properties and to the natural environment in general, which is common property?
in writing. - in the name of the precautionary principle and because the development of gmos reminds me of the sorcerer's apprentice in the service of easy money and an outdated productivism, i am today hostile to the practice and development of gmos. moreover, since gmos exist, whether one is for or against, one cannot be - and i cannot be - against improved traceability and labelling. this improvement is a lesser evil, which should not make us forget the fundamental question.
in writing. - everyone is in favour of labelling foodstuffs containing gmos, in order to inform the consumer and ensure traceability of these products along the production and distribution chain. however, these measures are particularly disconcerting because labelling, controls and other inspections will hardly be able to prevent the spread of pollen, the interpenetration of the two food circuits, namely with and without gmos, and finally the victory of the biotechnologies of the multinational monsanto and other large american seed companies. the pharisaism of european leaders, who pretend to control the gmo phenomenon for health reasons as uncertain as the positive contributions that these genetically modified products would bring to world agriculture, is doubled by a calendar irony. the european parliament is speaking out on the subject at a time when the french agricultural leader, josé bové, a world symbol of the warning about the real or overestimated dangers of gmos, is being imprisoned for excessive and disproportionate means. labelling for gmos, closure for anti-gmos, this sums up the ambiguity of these biotechnologies and the european position.
in writing. - traceability is the basic principle on which consumer protection and respect for their free choice in relation to gmos must be based. this traceability requires the introduction of systems for the recognition of the identity of gmos, i.e. procedures ensuring that it is possible to know, at all stages of the production and marketing chain, who has placed the products on the market and to know their origin. companies are also required to report whether a product is derived from gmos, to keep such information on identity and traceability and to make it available to the competent authorities. as regards the presence of authorised gmos, we support the most stringent thresholds, on the understanding that the rate chosen must be realistic, i.e. based on technical and measurable criteria. this requirement will need to be maintained in a progressive manner as detection and analysis methods become more sophisticated. finally, it is necessary to ensure that operators who choose not to use gmos can derive a commercial advantage from their choice.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment, as they significantly improve the council's common position and provide strong guarantees on traceability and labelling, aimed at preserving the consumer's freedom of choice between gmo and non-gmo products. contrary to the decision of my political group and the majority of the european parliament, i voted against compromise amendments 44 and 45 agreed with the council. the latter leave it to the discretion of the member states to adopt measures concerning the coexistence of the gmo and non-gmo sectors. however, as a result of the rejection of amendment 40 to the scheele report, member states are prohibited from restricting or prohibiting, on valid grounds, genetically modified food and its importation which present a risk to human or animal health or to the environment. where is the consumer's freedom of choice guaranteed? it turns out that the sole purpose of this legislation is to allow the european moratorium on gmos to be lifted as soon as possible. a large majority of the european parliament, as well as the european council, have just adopted legislation that is ineffective and will force gmos on europeans against their will.
in writing. - the common position on the indication of ingredients in foodstuffs is satisfactory with one exception. the commission's proposal is to be amended to include the following: the common position is in fact quite disproportionate in requiring that all substances used in the manufacturing process be indicated on the labels. especially when these substances leave no trace in the finished product. this is the case for famous drinks that give life to entire regions, such as beer and wine, which could thus be labelled as containing egg and fish derivatives. this has ruined the reputation of these fine drinks, which have been safely consumed for centuries. the amendments tabled, which are along the same lines as those we tabled for the vote in the committee on the environment, call for these technological aids to be subjected to precise scientific tests proving their allergenic effects. at this point, nothing is proven, everything is assumed. let us therefore wait for the first results before making labelling of these technological aids compulsory. yes to transparency to inform consumers about the composition of products while opposing over-labelling, which is disastrous for agro-food chains vital to france and many other countries.
in writing. - after salmonellosis, listeriosis and other foodborne infections, health policy in northern europe is now focusing on allergies to ingredients in food. hence the need for a directive on the labelling of these allergenic additives. but since wine is treated as a food, labelling would also be required for bottles in the name of the right to information on the risks of intolerance, in particular for eggs and fish referred to in annex iiia, listing the 20 risk ingredients. in order to eliminate suspensions in the wine during the production process, egg or fish-based glues are used. but it is clear that they disappear with the flocculation deposits they allow. there is therefore no reason to put these technological aids on a label, since there are no allergens at the end of the chain. with the friends of the winegrowers and common sense, we have tabled the amendments necessary to remove wine from this phobic and neurotic labelling requirement.
in writing. - the examination of this commission proposal, which aims to revise the sole objectives of recycling and re-use of packaging and packaging waste, is a laborious exercise for our assembly. the situation in each country, and even in each locality, is very different. the member states' performance in meeting the objectives laid down in the 1994 directive is uneven. the efforts they would now have to make to achieve the objectives set out in the commission's proposal are therefore very different from one member state to another, not to mention the specific case of the candidate countries. the council has therefore so far only reached a common position, which the rapporteur considers to be very insufficient. i personally cannot share his view. we cannot deny reality, even if it does not correspond to our ideals. in an ideal virtual world, mrs corbey would have had my support and i could have been even bolder than she was. but in the very real world we live in, every decision has consequences and implies costs that weigh on the taxpayers and the consumers that we all are. it would have been counterproductive to vote today on provisions which have never been quantified and which impose obligations on all our member states which are not realistic. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - in view of the deadly threat posed by the greenhouse effect to the world, proposals to improve the measures taken to mitigate its magnitude cannot be overlooked. nevertheless, i am one of those who think that we cannot speculate on pollution and allow the rich to buy the right to pollute from those who do not have the means to develop. that is why i am voting against, and i am also urging the commission to speed up research programmes to produce clean energy. fusion is one of them, which is why it is urgent to start building iter.
in writing. - i voted for this bill. i am not particularly in favour of this worldwide system of selling "rights to pollute". the practical experience i have had with industrialists in my sector shows that these economic actors can make a significant effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. however, i wanted to make amendments to the original proposal submitted by the european commission. it seemed very important to extend the scope of the directive to the chemicals and aluminium sectors. i have tabled amendments to this effect. i therefore deeply regret that the council of ministers has not accepted the position adopted by my colleagues on this point and is thus delaying the inclusion of the chemical and aluminium sectors.
- mr president, there are many uncertainties about the cancun conference, whose preparatory negotiations are far from being concluded, particularly in the areas supposed to be favourable to the developing countries. the dismantling of agricultural subsidies is very limited, and this shows that the rich countries, and above all the united states, are not ready to give up their privileges, even though they are committed to the development cycle. the european union, obsessed with its own interests, also downplayed the reform of the cap. revision of the trips agreement to ban the patenting of living things should be a priority for cancun. applying to all forms of life, intellectual property rights violate the sovereignty of states and peoples to protect their resources and know-how and deny the very existence of public goods. negotiators, listen to the call of the africa group, if you want cancun to be a success, and abandon the singapore outcome. the absence of solutions to the famous paragraph 6 of the doha declaration on access to medicines shows that our governments, under pressure from the pharmaceutical companies, are afraid to adopt a courageous and genuinely humanist stance. once again, there is a great risk that a compromise solution which would have been considered unacceptable a priori will be finally accepted. in egypt last week, the americans seemed to take a step forward by waiving a restrictive list of diseases. there is also the problem of the countries eligible. what is meant by sufficient production capacity? should we not, rather than accept a compromise at a discount, start over on a new basis of negotiations leading to an economic and practical solution for the developing countries? let us not forget the spirit of doha. nothing should prevent countries from protecting the health of their people. above all, nothing should prevent any member from participating in wto negotiations in a fair and transparent manner. we will be particularly vigilant in cancun. commissioner, i ask you not to renege on our commitments. the doha round must be the round for developing countries. nature and human beings are not commodities. environment and health are more important than wto rules. do not undermine the credibility and good faith of the european union. work in cancun for sustainable and equitable solutions.
- commissioner, you have reformed the common agricultural policy in order to give europe a margin of manoeuvre in the wto negotiations. the compromise reached in luxembourg last week largely follows the commission's recommendations. let me ask you a few questions. can you tell me today what new horizons this reform opens up in negotiation? can you tell me what agriculture will gain from this, despite a reform which will have very negative consequences for our farmers? european consumers are expressing increasingly high demands for food safety, product quality and production conditions. these are translated into increasingly stringent constraints on farmers in respect of the environment and animal welfare. do you think you can meet their expectations by requiring that only products meeting the same requirements enter the european market? otherwise, it would create a distortion of competition in our own markets which would be detrimental to our products. in the field of public health, the union has opted for a ban on hormone-treated meat. will you stand firm on this position which we do not wish to be called into question under any circumstances? our agriculture also produces very high quality foodstuffs, which are recognised by designations of origin and often represent the spearhead of regional economies. how do you propose to promote them to our wto partners? finally, we support the eu moratorium on gmos in response to the complaint lodged by the united states. we are counting on you, commissioner, to take a firm and aggressive stance in defence of european agriculture, consumer demands and refusal of any concessions on the opening up of markets. to give in to liberalism would be to condemn european agriculture.
- we are all convinced that fighting for multilateralism is a good fight. as multilateralism is under threat, we must do everything we can to make cancun a success. but it is a bit like squaring the circle: on the one hand, the americans defend their interests by all means, while cultivating the myth of full free trade, and on the other, many countries in the south do not find their place in the world economy, discuss the current rules of trade and demand positive discrimination. how can the union play its role as a link in the chain, leading americans in the right direction? while i note the positive efforts made, i have some questions about the cancun approach, because we are not immune to conflicts between our interests and our intentions. first, how can we better defend special and differential treatment? the developing countries are not the only ones to blame; we are not clear on this either. the scope of this treatment is excessively wide, which deprives the concept of differentiation of any real relevance. and the rules are in a grey area. can we look at them again for the trips, for the regional areas, and not avoid the question of technology transfers? secondly, i support the desire to keep the preparation of the questions on 'singapore' - and here i am slightly off-track with erik mcnally - on target, because they concern key dimensions of the link between trade and development. but should the union stand by its original line? i agree with the bottom-up approach, but should we not be more supportive of the restrictions, including pre-school, that are associated with the demand for political space? in addition, there is an urgent need to support the cancun negotiations with strong parallel initiatives to redistribute and ensure the sustainability of direct investment. thirdly, as far as agriculture is concerned, we are taking a firm stand on internal support and the calculation of tariff reductions. but are the most vulnerable countries in the south, which are sole producers and net importers, taking advantage of this? should we not strengthen market access and eliminate export subsidies for products which are strategic for these countries and adopt a fair trade framework initiative?
- mr president, commissioner, thank you for pointing out that the main theme of cancun would be the integration of developing countries. thank you, then, for putting your words into action in one or another area that the wto should be dealing with differently. if we want to be in solidarity with the south and the most vulnerable people in our area, it is impossible to treat health, education, but also water, energy or the necessary improvements in sanitation systems as mere commodities. all people must be able to afford these genuine public services for humanity. the gats negotiations must change course. the right to adequate and healthy food is also a common human right. farmers in the north and south must be able to support a perspective of genuine multi-functionality. rural development, the very symbol of the non-market sector, a fundamental issue for today and tomorrow, is indeed part of the reorientation of the cap as just adopted by the council. it reinforces the modulation which is a positive signal for our small farmers and those in the southern countries. but if you can rely on the beginning of decoupling for cereals or meat, then export subsidies must be less obvious and must continue to be less so. the specific characteristics of european farmers must still be protected. but if solidarity with the farmers of the south is to be shown, they must be allowed to benefit from support systems similar to the cap, which still protects european farmers. both maintain the primary mission of feeding their fellow citizens by producing adequate food freely. we must help them to do so in the face of the two or three monopolies in the agri-food industry.
- mr president, in a negotiation, when it is well conducted, we give and we take. if europe is getting in proportion to what it has already given, it should therefore be getting a lot in cancun. wasn't the avowed aim of cap reform to improve the union's negotiating position in the doha cycle and not to define the agricultural policy that europeans need? my question is therefore: what substantial concessions is the union asking its partners to make in return for the cascade of unilateral concessions it has itself made since the conclusion of the uruguay round? i will name a few: the 'everything but arms' initiative, the unilateral abandonment of import duties on black sea cereals, the granting of tariff quotas, the decoupling of compensatory aids and the consequent dismantling of our agricultural coms. i hope that the union will at least put the unfortunate blairhouse agreement back on the negotiating table, which prevents us from pursuing a coherent policy for the development of oilseeds and has caused our production to stagnate at a paltry level of one million tonnes, while world production is growing by 5% a year and now exceeds 300 million tonnes. i also hope that the commission will enshrine the principle of the right of peoples to feed themselves, a basic principle of quantitative and qualitative food security. we must not allow ourselves to be imposed by structurally exporting countries with a so-called right of access to the community market for products whose production in the european union is in surplus or for products, mr president, which we intend to regulate strictly, like gmos.
- a few days before the last eu-us summit, you, commissioner, expressed your satisfaction with the existence of, i quote, 'sound trade relations between the union and the united states which make it possible to work together on the doha programme'. however, on the eve of cancun, a european commitment that is not afraid to stand out from the us approach in several areas is vital. this is what i believe those who, as recently as the ldc trade ministers, are denouncing the wto's inability to meet the doha timetable, to conclude negotiations on development decisions, access to medicines, special and differential treatment or trade in agricultural products, are expecting. so far, nothing has come of it. i repeat my fear that this 'dimension' of development will disappear in favour of a policy which would favour trade only and the dogmatic choice of trade liberalisation. as the gap between rich and poor countries worsens, it is difficult to accept this willingness to include new subjects such as investment, competition or public procurement. the agcs, for its part, threatens public services and state missions, while no assessment has yet been made of the consequences of liberalisation. under these conditions, a moratorium is necessary. the right to health, education, food security, energy must prevail over commercial interests. the european union must instead act to promote the democratisation of the international trading system and cooperate closely with developing countries so that development objectives prevail.
- mr president, commissioner, after the reform of the cap, it is now cancun that we have to face. it is clear that in this context we must affirm our european trade objectives by showing our willingness to reduce the development gap between the north and the south, between the developed countries and the rest. in this sense, on the agricultural front, we must of course agree to strengthen the special and differentiated treatment for the developing countries already integrated into the marrakesh treaty. we must also confirm the doha results, concerning the substantial reduction of our export refunds, and at the same time obtain the extension of this measure to all forms of export subsidies because the union, as we know, is not the only one concerned. at the same time, it is clear that the union must denounce the latest us farm bill which protects us producers against market fluctuations and which may, therefore, generate an oversupply and a fall in prices on international markets. furthermore, commissioner, the union must defend the right of each wto member state to set its own production and food safety standards and to apply them to products entering its market. european producers are entitled to this guarantee on imports, as well as to international recognition of geographical indications to promote their territory and traditional know-how. in sum, commissioner, cancun must be a plus for the developing world, without being a minus for the vast majority of small and mediumsized european farmers.
- mr president, commissioner, the cancun conference is not looking good. the feeling is that the european union is going to make it even more complicated by its negotiating strategy. cancun is not doing well because of the frustrations accumulated by developing countries since the end of the uruguay round, frustrations which had already led to the failure of the seattle conference. but once again, trust is being tested, as many of the important commitments made in doha have not been kept and deadlines have not been met. this is the case for access to medicines but also for special and differential treatment, for implementation issues, for dispute settlement reform and other topics. the question is how europe will use its weight, which is important, in these negotiations. will it use it to respond to developing countries to restore confidence, or will it remain narrowly focused on its commercial interests? take the subjects in singapore. why this insistence on imposing a multilateral investment agreement on developing countries that do not want it at any cost? they do not see why the rules and conditions under which foreign investors enter their country should fall under the jurisdiction of the wto. but you insist on making it a condition of the european union for an agreement in cancun. don't you feel you're unnecessarily loading the boat? you are engaging in a tug-of-war between the european union and the developing countries. we would rather see an alliance between the european union and the countries of the south. and you have heard, from many benches in this house, speakers from different groups asking you to concentrate on the essentials. put your weight, that of the european union, which is considerable, at the service of improving special and differential treatment, of progress in market access, of dispute settlement reform, of taking the environment into account, of access to medicines, and not of an agreement on investments, public procurement or competition, which do not have to fall within the competence of the wto.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after parliament's first reading, i believe that the council's common position is an important step in the construction of a community policy on air navigation. while the approach adopted by the council is realistic in a number of areas, i regret that it was not more offensive in certain provisions. i'll get back to you. the obligation of functional separation between service providers and national supervisory authorities is, like the obligation of certification of service providers, a structuring measure. if it is a question of affirming the will to distinguish the role of the operator from that of the regulator, of increasing transparency, this obligation should take into account the realities that show that different conceptions can also work. in any event, i think it is reasonable for each member state to retain control of the choice of operation for its territory. i regret that it was not clearly recognised that air navigation safety management was a chain of actions and services requiring a holistic approach rather than a fragmented one. i am even more convinced of this approach after two days last week at the annual conference of the etf's air navigation group of unions. we're talking about the fragmentation, but i think we should also talk about the human factor. the staffing of control centres can always be reduced, but it is not acceptable that a volume of space is managed by just one or two controllers: there are also human limits. at the same time, in the airspace sector, the creation of a single european region for upper airspace flight information and the commission's joint publication of aeronautical information in this area are achievements and represent a step forward. the commission will also be able to harmonize the pricing of services. as regards the organisation of airspace and the provision of services, everyone agrees that safety requires anticipation, study and agreement by the states and service providers concerned. the amendments to the original text concern in particular the recognition of the sovereignty of states over the airspace above them and the reminder of the responsibilities of these states vis-à-vis the icao. the council thus came to the conclusion that functional airspace blocks, which have been the subject of much debate, are established by the states concerned only. is that a good thing or a bad thing? i think it's a process. it also concerns the recognition that air traffic control is a matter of the exercise of public powers and is not of an economic nature justifying the application of the treaty's competition rules. thus, states decide whether or not to apply economic incentives to their service providers or users through royalty rates; personally, i'm more of a proponent of this approach. secondly, there is the question of recognizing the central role that eurocontrol must play in the preparation of the measures delegated to the commission, which fall within the scope of the competence of this organization; i think that's a step forward. finally, the recognition of the exclusive competence of states in determining their defence operations, including their treatment, is discussed, which - i agree with you, madam commissioner - is not satisfactory. i'd rather put the civilian before the military in peacetime; i am sure that this also corresponds to the reality of today. the common position incorporates a substantial part of the amendments proposed by parliament at first reading. i regret, however, that the council, like parliament, in the first reading, has shown a certain laxity in relation to certain demands which i regard as sensible. the proposal from my group to double the number of control devices to ensure safe continuation of operations in the event of a failure, as well as the proposal to assess the proper implementation of the directive, were not accepted, which i regret. i met with the operators and worked a lot with the unions on this issue. i think we must listen to the employees of the sector who are already working today in the european and global space and who are determined to move europe forward. listening to them means actually involving them and not just consulting them. europe will be made with the actors of the different sectors and will require their active participation; there is no future without them, in my opinion. finally, i regret that the approach is still based, on the whole, on the ideological assumption that liberalisation is a guarantee of efficiency, including for security, which has still to be demonstrated.
- mr president, commissioner, i believe that if we are today faced with a common position of the council which is significantly different from the commission's initial proposal and parliament's work, it is because, as everyone knows, this dossier started from a misunderstanding between the desire, on the one hand, to replace the commission with eurocontrol and, on the other hand, to put a cap on the air traffic controllers that is perhaps too wide in terms of delays, especially for 1999, which was marked by exceptional military constraints. i think we have done a lot of work since then and we are not far from a point of equilibrium. we have recognised the public interest and safety role of air navigation services. we have left it to the state to designate their services. we brought eurocontrol back into the game, which i think was absolutely necessary. now, we have a few things to sort out. i approve and encourage, even though i am aware of the legal constraints involved, the efforts made by the commission to get the military authorities to at least agree to discuss. we know that there is a very considerable obstacle here, which is linked to capacity and is probably much more important than others which we are too inclined to point the finger at. secondly, the issue of arbitration on international airspace blocks is still unresolved. i think it would be sufficient if all the parties present agreed to re-establish the use of eurocontrol's expertise; the commission must, of course, eventually decide on this expertise. finally, i am of the opinion that recital 16 and article 7 of mrs sanders-ten holte's report should be implemented, which aim to involve staff as closely as possible, as they are an integral part of the safety chain. the air navigation profession is not simply a matter of the market - and i believe the commission is proud to have finally recognised this - it is first and foremost a profession of 'air policemen' in an airspace which will become increasingly congested and in which we must at all costs preserve know-how and excellence, avoiding too much competition from the 'air policing' services.
- mr president, the rapporteurs of this parliament would like to make it appear that the achievement of the single european sky would be a noble cause and a great step forward which europeans should welcome. the council does not need to embellish reality, hence the differences in wording. but the differences in wording conceal the reality more than they reveal it. the european union is an association dominated by rival states that cling to borders, even in the sky. what they call their sovereignty is nothing but the civil and military defense of their selfish interests and those of their possessing class. if the sky is unique in nature, it is not unique in human society, and the european institutions are clearly failing to put an end to this aberration. the term 'single sky' is used to cover an operation which aims to open new loopholes in the public air traffic control service for the benefit of private operators, suppliers and service providers. because that's what it's all about. the european authorities have already authorised the privatisation of the uk air traffic control agency. some eurocontrol rules have also been changed to allow private companies to make profits in the air traffic control sector. the trade unions of air traffic control workers in europe rightly denounce this creeping privatization and its consequences both for flight safety and for the working conditions of the staff. the tragedy of the lake constance air disaster a year ago showed what a disaster the introduction of the law of profit in this area, even if only in a limited way, can be. despite this, and while hypocritically defending themselves, the european authorities persist and sign. they are increasingly moving towards the dismantling of this public service, towards the race for profit, towards the cutting of the sky into sectors that can be allocated to private operators. the airlines will probably be affected, but not the air traffic controllers or the passenger safety staff. we therefore once again express our opposition to the increased privatisation of the skies, which is harmful both to the users and to the employees of air transport in the broad sense, as well as to the populations flown over.
- the next item is the report (a5-0169/2003) by mr gasòliba i böhm, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the international role of the euro area and the first assessment of the introduction of banknotes and coins (com (2002) 747 - 2002/2259 (ini)).
- madam president, everyone can appreciate the positive economic impact of the birth of the euro and i am particularly concerned about the general relaxation of interest rates and the elimination of risk premia, from which all european countries benefit. but we also see the limits of these benefits, the short-term expansion between 1997 and 2000 and the current economic stagnation. jacques delors said that the euro was not enough. it called for strong coordination of economic policies. we have not done so and we now desperately need a european economic policy. i support the report by mr gasòliba which goes in this direction and calls for a policy to develop public and private investment, human capital, research, mobility and the qualification of workers. the convention should have developed tools for this purpose. she didn't. it's one of his biggest failures. in fact, we have not been able to build the eurogroup within the framework of the convention's work. even if the member states could, as they say, take additional measures on the broad economic policy guidelines, they do not have the fiscal or budgetary means to do so. i would add that monetary policy, which was mentioned earlier and which was praised, did not anticipate or grasp the turnaround in the world economy and took a long time to react, which confirms our difficulty in thinking about ourselves in the global space. so we are talking about structural reforms - they are indispensable - but, as mr delors said, competition is not enough, we must build cooperation and solidarity between us if we are to have a functioning economy and play a role in the governance of the world economy. if we do not have this will and these concepts, let us at least work on institutional reforms, let us try to equip ourselves with institutional tools. you proposed a single representation of the euro area and put forward the idea of a minister for economic affairs who would play his role both internally and externally and who would be placed in the commission. of course, i can only support these proposals which are going in the right direction.
- madam president, the gasòliba i böhm report takes a positive view of the functioning of the euro area since 1999, and identifies many advantages, but also some rare and hypothetical disadvantages. we can be a little more specific, however: the real benefits are there and they were known from the start: for example, the disappearance of currency fluctuations between the countries of the euro area, which has undoubtedly saved us from some crises in the recent period. but there are downsides. these include twice as low growth and twice as high unemployment in the euro area as in the non-euro area. this difference may have several causes, but one of them is most certainly the rigidity introduced by the unified interest and exchange rates applied to economies whose needs remain very different. another disadvantage, which is rarely mentioned, is the lack of incentive for structural reforms, which results from the sharing of responsibilities. in the past, national mismanagement could lead to a currency crisis that required corrective action. today, the responsibilities of the virtuous and the delinquent countries are blended in the single currency, so that some can defer reforms as long as the euro has credit. it was indeed intended that the disappearance of the foreign exchange market disciplines would be compensated by the disciplines of the stability pact, but it is now clear that these administrative disciplines cannot suffice to replace those of the market. as for the strengthening of overall economic coordination and the european budget drawn up on federal principles, which the report calls for, we should not count too much on this in the immediate future, as is shown by the few results achieved by the convention on this chapter. it would not be in accordance with the maastricht treaty. in other words, madam president, the eurozone's ship is floating, but it is not navigable and no one knows where it is going. i hope it's not to the superstate.
- thank you, mr färm. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon. the following shall be considered as a written declaration:
- the first conclusion to be drawn from the introduction of the euro is a considerable increase in the household basket which, mr gasòliba, contrary to what you write, is far from being a pure psychological illusion and which i do not confuse with inflation. but it is also the case that the overvalued euro is becoming an amplifier of the difficulties facing our economies: weak growth and domestic demand, the handicap of our exports, threats of deflation, a dogmatic stability pact that imposes a pro-cyclical fiscal policy. who will dare to calculate the cost of the single currency and the delays of the central bank in terms of jobs? the united states, which is your model in so many areas, should also be your model in economic and monetary policy. their federal reserve has other concerns than fighting inflation that is barely above 2%. they are preserving growth, already considerably more dynamic than ours, by issuing dollars. they use it to finance their deficits, but also their wars and to establish their political dominance. why not do the same with the euro? the rapporteur says that the advantages of the single currency far outweigh its disadvantages. it's just a profession of faith. it must be translated into action.
- ladies and gentlemen, i would like to welcome, on my own behalf and on behalf of all of you, the members of the kazakh parliamentary delegation to the fourth meeting of the european union-republic of kazakhstan parliamentary cooperation committee, which is taking place in the official gallery. (applause) this delegation is composed of eight members and is chaired by the vice-president of the kazakh parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
- the next item is the report (a5-0214/2003) by mrs ghilardotti, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, on gender budgeting (2002/2198 (ini)).
- madam president, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur very warmly for this gender budgeting, because it seems to me that, thanks to this document, we are taking an important step, as the commissioner said. the rapporteur explained that gender budgeting practices were already being applied in countries outside and inside europe. i therefore hope, commissioner, that we will give our full support to this report. i would like to say to my colleague who thinks that we are playing with ideology when we talk about this issue that it is an economic issue. if i take the example of the pension issue, which affects most of our countries in europe and, in recent months, particularly france, gender budgeting makes it possible to make a diagnosis of the situation. for example, it is found that while the gender pay gap is 25%, the gap rises to 47% by the time of retirement. that's a diagnosis this study allows us to make. however, this diagnosis is not enough, because the angry spirits will say: 'well, it's going to cost us money!' economic gender equality costs money, whether it's job equality, pension equality, or many other issues. i would like to remind those sad minds that there is another way to look at the inequality between men and women: economic inequality between men and women costs money! better analysis and practice of equality for financial issues would reduce rather than increase a cost. i say this for those who think we are ideologizing. they are wrong, we are also doing economy through this question.
- thank you, mrs gröner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
in writing. - the thessaloniki council launched a reflection on the union's security strategy on the basis of a report by the high representative ('a secure europe in a better world') which seeks, in a very interesting way, to take account of certain recent developments. in particular, the document highlights the new threats: terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, criminal or failing states, and organized crime. it shows that, because of increased interdependence, geographically distant destabilisation can have dangerous repercussions for us, directly or indirectly. finally, he stressed that often a 'preventive engagement' (which is not necessarily military) 'can help to avoid serious problems in the future'. these considerations could provide a good basis for a posteriori justification for intervention in iraq, which provoked the anger of the chairman of the communist group. but i do approve of this effort to be clear-headed. however, i believe that the high representative's report underestimates the threat of increasing and uncontrolled migration flows for the future. moreover, the text seems unrealistic as regards the possibilities for a unified foreign policy in europe without a sharp reduction in democracy.
in writing. - we have refused to accept the outcome of the thessaloniki european council. first, we exclude immigration issues as the main problem in europe. at a time when immigrants who are victims of poverty, political repression or conflict are dying every day outside the walls of fortress europe, whether in sfax or lampedusa, we reaffirm the principle of free movement and free establishment. the creation of transit centres, regional protection zones and the intensification of police and border enforcement have proved inhumane and ineffective. secondly, we do not recognise the legality or legitimacy of the proposal for a constitution for europe by giscard d'estaing. this text, which emerged from the undemocratic process of the convention, is nothing but the expression of the tenets of a market europe, a europe of democratic and social regression. this project, after having been in the hands of the eurocrats, is now in the hands of the heads of state or government. if the citizens of europe want a constitution, they need a constituent process based on democracy, social rights, public services and the general interest. by voting against the resolution, we are defending that perspective.
in writing. - with the official presentation of the convention's work, the thessaloniki summit will of course remain a landmark european council. the result for the convention is ambitious but unsurprising. the convention, which was set up to provide the european union with a constitution, is a text of a clearly federalist nature. the question now is what will become of this text. although the draft constitution is not legally binding on the participants in the next igc, there is a risk that political pressure will be strong to force the adoption of the constitution on the states. in such a situation, i hope that the national governments - which retain the exclusive competence to revise the treaties - will resist the oukases of ultra-federalist circles and will show the necessary authority to preserve their prerogatives. in addition, whatever the outcome of the igc, i hope that in the member states where the referendum procedure exists, the new treaty will be submitted directly to the people. this is a democratic requirement
in writing. - we abstained on the ghilardotti report which advocated gender budgeting, i.e. public budgets which take account of the 'gender perspective' and are therefore supposed to establish a little more equality between men and women. the intention is good but the means are not. this is all the more so when one is in line with the broad economic guidelines of the member states of the european union, which, contrary to what the author of the report claims, do not reduce inequalities in europe, but on the contrary contribute to their aggravation. the european parliamentarians, in their ivory tower, can imagine whatever they want. the reality is very different. by increasingly giving free rein to large industrial and financial groups, by destroying public services or by attacking social protection, the eu states are not reducing inequalities, they are deepening them. by refusing to put an end to redundancies, by advocating wage moderation, by reducing the amount of pensions, their action worsens the evils suffered by women, such as being more often than men victims of unemployment, precariousness, forced part-time work. (explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - public budgets are currently drawn up on an administrative basis, with appropriations being allocated by ministry. but there are presentations by major function, by programme or by economic breakdown. since 1995, in the name of gender equality, it has been proposed to prepare budgets on a gender basis. it is gender budgeting, which would answer two questions. first, how are the budgeted expenditures divided between women and men: who pays? second, who pays? who pays the taxes? this bold vision needs to be expanded to even more justice. we need a generational budgeting. in society, which generations, young, retired, working, fourth generation, pay taxes? which generations benefit most from public spending? but above all, we need class budgeting, categorical budgeting. what social groups bear the burden of taxation? the employees, the pensioners? finally, the big taboo: who benefits from the budget? rich or poor? the middle class? old people, peasants, small people, fat people? the question of justice is there, it is not hormonal but social.
in writing. - the creation of the single european sky to allow for an optimal and unified use of european airspace in the face of sky saturation and the resulting delays is based on good feeling. however, the fragmentation of european airspace is not the only cause of delays. the commercial practices of carriers, which increase the number of small aircraft on the most profitable routes, are a major contributor. the infringement of the principle of subsidiarity by the requirement of organic separation between the regulator and the operator prevents member states from organising their national navigation control system as they see fit, possibly within the framework of the second pillar of the cfsp with a corollary of harmonisation with nato. the commission's proposal to change the allocation of airspace between civil and military uses must not favour purely commercial interests at the expense of security. what will be the result of a community-wide duplication of eurocontrol's powers? its current operation is organized efficiently in terms of safety and flow management. will we not create a technocratic and administrative 'monster' which will once again remove the citizen from the centre of decision-making?
in writing. - we rejected parliament's amendments which sought to liberalize and deregulate air transport in europe. we are not satisfied with the council's position, however, which endorses the abolition of the notion of a mission of general interest and of public service obligations. as is often the case in these matters, after consulting the trade unions in the sector, we resign ourselves to the policy of the lesser evil, knowing that the member states chose at the barcelona european council to deal a fatal 'totally liberal' blow to users and employees. the question of the single european sky should have been raised not in the pursuit of commercial interests but in the context of effective harmonisation on the basis of the best european standards for operating systems and environmental and social standards. this would have made the single sky a given for all citizens and not a new market for a minority of industrialists and shareholders.
in writing. - we rejected all amendments which seriously undermine the staff regulations, the quality of services and, more generally, the public service remit. we have no confidence in the market rules to harmonize or improve air transport. parliament's amendments are part of the liberal ideology. under the guise of harmonisation, they fragment the european sky into several entities and open the way to competition between service providers. we have therefore voted against the requirement to extend the single sky to lower space. we rejected the commission's arbitration in the case of a dispute over the creation of crossborder space blocks and the imposition of sanctions on the provider. we are concerned about the relatively short duration of the concession for providers (5 to 10 years) and the strong return of financial incentives. the single european sky of the commission and the council will, in these circumstances, be a source of precariousness and insecurity. in the long run, the single sky is a regression for users and employees, as opposed to a public service coordinated at european level, integrating the long term and using the most advanced techniques.
in writing. - we would have voted for the amendments which seek better compensation for passengers, but since almost all amendments are voted as a whole, we did not want to support those which exempt certain service providers, such as tour operators, or which seek to reduce the obligations of airlines. we are particularly opposed to the fact that the latter are held responsible in the event of a strike. it would be unthinkable for air transport employers to escape their obligations when it is their wage and employment policy that is the cause of these strikes.
in writing. - we voted for this report because we cannot but agree with the denunciation of this abject situation of the transformation of children into slave soldiers. but at the same time, we are disgusted by the hypocrisy of a text coming from political representatives of rich countries whose ruling class has so much responsibility for the misery of these countries. what, for example, do statements about "a strategy to combat poverty" or the promise, which is known to be false, to facilitate access for these children "to medical care, social benefits and schooling" mean? moreover, while the european parliament expresses its indignation, the member states of the union continue to maintain relations with the leaders of these countries. for example, to take just one recent example, the fact that the president in office in liberia is using child soldiers did not prevent the leaders of the french state from receiving him with honours four years ago. the rule of armed gangs has never stopped the arms companies from selling weapons to the regime, nor the jewelry companies from recovering smuggled diamonds. while the massacre of civilians and the dehumanization of child soldiers continues, the looting continues.
in writing. - we voted against the joint resolution. the state's reason must not take precedence over that of the people. contrary to what is claimed, the referendum is not a first step towards normalisation. it was undemocratic, as the opposition was not allowed to campaign. he introduced a chechen constitution which enshrined the dominance of the moscow power, imposed the use of only russian in the administration and gave the president of the russian federation the right to dismiss the chechen president. the main concern of the chechens is not the fight against terrorism, but the fight against military occupation and for the improvement of their living conditions. they're disastrous because of the russian bombing. unemployment, already massive in the russian federation because of ultra-liberal policies, is even greater in chechnya and the caucasus because of military excesses. it is also curious that the ad hoc delegation did not report these facts to us. peace in chechnya and the search for a political solution require the opening of direct negotiations between the representatives of president maskhadov and the russian authorities. the end of military clashes can only be based on an official ceasefire and the withdrawal of russian armed forces.
in writing. - the european parliament's concern about the situation in chechnya is understandable. is this a reason to ignore the most basic principles of international law, such as russia's national sovereignty, non-interference in its internal affairs, the right of russian political authorities to take the necessary measures to guarantee the territorial integrity and indivisibility of the state? i do not think so, especially since the reasons given for the usual condemnation of the events in chechnya seem to me to be completely wrong. even if some people sometimes forget, we are dealing here with a legitimate fight against terrorism. but contrary to what the human rights humanitarianism of a handful of irresponsible people would have us believe, there are no good or bad terrorists. there are terrorists, that is to say fanatics who, in contempt of human dignity, commit murderous attacks against innocent people. so yes, a political solution is desirable in chechnya - and i welcome vladimir putin's efforts in this direction - but it will only be credible if the terrorist factions give up violence once and for all. that's my hope.
in writing. - the fifth wto ministerial conference to be held in cancun next september seems to be governed, once again, by the imperatives of free trade rather than rebalancing in favour of respect for national sovereignty. on the procedural side, the commission seems to want to use the negotiating mandate granted in 1999 for seattle, which was already of little relevance at the time and is now completely outdated. the european parliament is consulted only by this resolution, which concludes a short one-hour debate and has no binding legal force. the negotiations will therefore once again be opened without transparency, which is a bad omen. in the end, for us, what is at stake is the right of each people to regulate the society in which it lives. this includes the right to choose its own agricultural model (as dominique souchet said very well in yesterday's debate), the right to choose the way in which its public services operate (and their limits), the right to safeguard its independence or to apply the precautionary principle by prohibiting certain imports, and the right to freely apply a regional preference or a preference in favour of poor countries in order to express a choice of solidarity.
in writing. - we obviously voted against the joint resolution on the wto because we are against the capitalist system, as well as all the international organizations which represent it. we also voted against or abstained on most of the amendments because, while they express good intentions to make the capitalist world a better place, they are just part of the general cheating. capitalism cannot be improved by the rust of a few amendments from the european parliament.
in writing. - we vote against the joint resolution on the forthcoming world trade organization conference. this resolution takes up the positions traditionally defended by the european commission in favour of widening the scope of negotiations in the wto. on the so-called singapore issues, it advocated the formal opening of negotiations on competition, investment, trade facilitation and public procurement. this would give the wto greater powers. the resolution also considered that the reform of global governance could be satisfactorily achieved by establishing a more balanced and better articulated relationship between the wto and other international organisations. this is a misunderstanding of what the wto is. it was set up with the aim of promoting trade liberalization. it was designed to ensure the predominance of the imperialist countries within it. it is imposing itself as an undemocratic force, its decisions, taken without any popular control, having to be transposed into national or community legislation. the wto is a war machine for the money powers. it is not enough to rebalance the relationship to solve such a problem! democratic reform of international trade will be against the wto, not with it.
in writing. - the blokland report welcomes the appreciation of the euro against the dollar but warns that the intensification of this trend must not jeopardise exports. he points to a black hole in monetary union: no one knows exactly what the exchange rate target for the euro is. in any case, it is not for the ecb to define this, since the ecb is only responsible for maintaining price stability. the demand for a large-scale study of the euro confirms that the ecb does not seem to be taking a spontaneous interest in this issue. this ignorance, which is claimed or even asserted, confirms our analysis of the euro: it is not an instrument designed to support a better coordinated economic policy and more favourable to employment. it is essentially an economic policing tool aimed at putting pressure on wages and social budgets. it is therefore not surprising that this report, like the gasòliba i böhm report, is a strong reminder of the strictest orthodoxy, particularly in budgetary matters. far from deploring the breakdown of the stability pact, we see that its principles are both inapplicable in practice and profoundly harmful in their effects. that is why we voted against these two reports, which are nothing but a compulsive repetition of patterns that have long been shaken by the economic situation.
in writing. - this report does not derogate from the principle applicable to the examination of annual reports, which requires that the institution concerned be flattered. this time, the 'bold' rapporteur dares to deplore the fact that the introduction of the euro has had what he modestly calls an impact on inflation. the ecb is also asked to be cautious about the speed with which markets react to or ignore its monetary policy decisions. this is all the "negative" aspects of a report which, for the rest, is a thorough analysis of the ecb's activities. the ecb is praised for having responded correctly to economic and financial developments, and for the appreciation of the euro against the dollar. the ecb is now reaping the dividends of its constant allegiance to federalist and monetarist dogmas. in these circumstances, it is not surprising that passages concerning the ecb's independence are being used, let alone the attack on member states which have broken the stability and growth pact, which risks undermining the credibility of the euro area! i am not surprised, incidentally, that i reject this report.
in writing. - all is well in the best of all worlds! this is, in essence, the spirit of this report on the international role of the euro area. while everyone is worried about the appreciation of the euro against the dollar - a phenomenon which is severely penalising our exporters - and while some are questioning the criteria for interpreting the stability pact, and while the commission is increasing threats against states which cannot comply with the overwhelming constraints of maastricht, the rapporteur speaks of the euro as an important success of european integration on the road to greater prosperity and european identity, and sees only the independence of the central bank and the policy of price stability. in his view, the euro is such a success that a single representative of the euro area should be appointed to international political institutions! in short, once again the european parliament is being carried away by an ideological and demagogic interpretation of the observable situation. all this is truly astounding, and it shows an incredible blindness to economic realities. this report is off the table and i shall naturally vote against it.
the commission (es) mr president, as you know, the commission adopted on 2 april 2003 a decision confirming an infringement of the competition rules by six beef federations. the corresponding fines were imposed, amounting to approximately eur 17 million. this is an agreement concluded in france between four farmers' federations and two slaughterhouse federations at the end of 2001. the agreement consisted of a minimum price undertaking and a suspension-limitation of imports from other member states. it took the form first of a public written agreement and then of a secret oral agreement after the commission sent letters of formal notice. these agreements were concluded against a background of low prices on the beef market due to the crisis in the sector. on the basis of information provided by the directorate-general for agriculture, the directorate-general for competition opened an investigation and sent requests for information in mid-november 2001. on this basis, the commission - and i want to emphasize this - initially merely sent warning letters at the end of november 2001. all parties to the agreement then gave written assurances to the commission that they would terminate the illegal agreement. but the commission found indications that the parties were keeping the agreement secret. the surprise inspections carried out in mid-december 2001 confirmed the commission's suspicions. the parties were given the opportunity to make written and oral submissions. the decision of 2 april 2003 concludes, on the basis of settled case-law of the court of justice, that, first, there is a price agreement which is incompatible with the provisions of article 81 of the treaty and, second, there is an agreement suspending imports from the other member states, which is also incompatible with the community competition rules. the documents discovered by the commission in the course of the investigation show that, moreover, all the organisations concerned knew that the agreement they were concluding was illegal and that they were exposed to interference by the competition authorities. the commission imposed fines of eur 12 million on the fnsa, the main french agricultural federation, and fines of up to eur 480 000 on one of the slaughterhouse federations. let me remind you that in the case of very serious infringements of the competition rules, the commission imposes fines, the basic amount of which for each participant is, in principle, at least eur 20 million. the three main criticisms of the commission's decision are: firstly, that it is an attack on freedom of association; secondly, that the amount of the fine is excessive, given the context of the crisis; and thirdly, the commission's inaction in the second mad cow crisis. i will try to answer these three arguments. as regards freedom of association, the commission considers that the scope of the decision has been exaggerated. freedom of association is a fundamental freedom, recognised by all, as the commission reiterates in its decision. but this freedom does not give the right to do anything: a trade union cannot have as its legitimate activity the conclusion of an agreement on prices and limitation of imports in contravention of the principles of the common market. that's all the decision says. the amount of the fine is fixed according to the seriousness of the infringement and the aggravating circumstances. the matter was not without seriousness and aggravating circumstances, even the most serious ones. in this respect, it should be recalled that the farmers, by means of acts of physical violence, forced the slaughterhouses to sign the illegal agreement. it should also be recalled that the parties, after having given written assurances that the agreement would not be renewed, in fact continued to apply it in secret. the commission has also taken account of the difficult economic situation in the agricultural sector, the dual crisis of mad cow disease and foot-and-mouth disease, to which mr bernié referred in his speech to this house on 7 april, and it is precisely this particular situation which has led, for the first time, to a reduction of the fine by 60%, a significant percentage. the third criticism is that it was the commission itself that failed to take adequate measures to deal with the mad cow crisis. in this connection, it should be recalled that the commission has increased its market stabilisation measures. the intervention mechanisms were used extensively, including the conditions for their application, and specific crisis mechanisms were created to enable member states to withdraw additional quantities of channels from the market. in a few months, about 10% of european consumption was thus withdrawn from the market. more than eur 1 billion from the community budget was used for this operation and the commission also authorised member states to grant national aid to the farmers most affected. in the case of france, the commission approved over eur 300 million in state aid. finally, it should be recalled that, although the crisis in the beef and veal sector affected the whole of europe, the commission has no record of the parties in any other member state having considered it necessary to create an illegal cartel. the decision, setting out in detail the facts as established by the commission and its legal conclusions, will be published in the near future.
- commissioner, i asked the commission for this explanation because i was shocked by the fine you want to impose on the french agricultural unions. it condemns trade unionism twice: on the one hand, you condemn the initiative capacity of a sector which enables it to establish solidarities to face a very exceptional crisis; on the other hand, you condemn the very existence of the unions, since the amount of the fine exceeds their budgetary capacity. the french cattle sector has 200 000 farmers with an average annual income of less than 8 000 euros. by autumn 2001, prices had fallen by more than 45%, while, paradoxically, consumer beef prices continued to rise. moreover, european solidarity has not worked and the french market has been saturated by low-priced meat arriving from other member states. in this context of a very exceptional crisis, there was no longer even a market. the french agricultural unions have agreed, with the agreement of the minister and the french ministry of agriculture, to fix a minimum price. a price at a level which did not allow for any margin to be made available. it could not in any way have been a secret agreement since the same evening as the agreement was signed, the french unions held a press conference. this is not, therefore, the creation of a cartel, despite what has been reported in the press, but rather a solidarity approach to avoid the disappearance of a part of agricultural production: that of quality beef. if europe had not failed in its mission to ensure market stability, french farmers would not have had to replace it. in exceptional circumstances, exceptional measures. in conclusion, commissioner, i would like to ask you a few questions. can you tell me what measures the commission has taken and why they have failed? have you really taken account of the distress of farmers and the risk of the disappearance of a quality sector? can you tell me on what basis you have estimated the fine at eur 16.7 million, which seems to me to be a very high figure? do you not consider that the commission's position is contrary to the principle of fixing a minimum price? finally, do you not think that, in a context where the agricultural unions have asked for arbitration by the european court of justice, the commission should play the cool hand by withdrawing these penalties in the circumstances?
- commissioner, i disagree with your analysis. we must remember the dramatic situation in the european union in the autumn of 2001, at the time of the terrible mad cow crisis: an exacerbated consumer fear led to a precipitous fall in beef consumption, a collapse in prices to levels unknown until then. the catering industry, the supermarkets, the slaughterhouses, they refused beef. desperate farmers saw their stock piled up and their fodder resources depleted and threatened public order. and what was the european commission proposing? weak and ineffective measures, far from being adequate to the scale of the crisis and the disturbances it was generating. it proposed voluntary slaughter-destruction measures, which were not applied by some member states, notably germany and the netherlands, which exported their problems to france by refusing to come to the aid of their own farmers. in this context, the measures taken in france by common agreement between the public authorities and the profession, which consisted in fixing a buying grid with the slaughterhouses at price levels corresponding to the buying-for-destruction prices fixed by the commission and calling on importers to stop their beef imports, were perfectly adapted to the situation and had an immediate calming effect. the allegation of collusion raised by the commission therefore appears to be totally out of date and scandalous in relation to the gravity of the situation at the time and, to put it bluntly, both absurd and irresponsible. i therefore urge the commission to abandon these senseless prosecutions and to devote all its energy to tracing the real hidden cartels which are really undermining freedom of competition.
- mr president, commissioner, the right to information is one of the fundamental rights and freedoms which ensure the maintenance and strengthening of peace and democracy in the world. once again these rights have been violated and today it is the situation in laos that must be denounced. since 5 june, two journalists, one french and one belgian, have been detained in vientiane, laos, together with their accompanying persons. they were arrested in xieng khuang province while they were finishing a report on the situation of the hmong minority. after a sham trial on 30 june, thierry falise and vincent reynaud were sentenced to 15 years in prison for obstructing an official in the performance of his duties, according to the terms of the trial itself. the false charge and the sentence were not in accordance with the provisions of the laotian penal code. in fact, mr president, my dear colleagues thierry falise and vincent reynaud were sentenced while they were only doing their job as journalists, as photojournalists, filming a group of mountain people who have been persecuted for years by an authoritarian regime which flouts all democratic principles. the resolution which we propose parliament to adopt and which we ask its president to forward to the authorities of laos and all the asean member countries calls, firstly, for the immediate release of the two journalists and their accompanying persons; secondly, the application of international conventions, including that adopted by the francophonie in the bamako declaration, ratified by laos, in order to protect the rights of journalists, including all those reporting in conflict zones; thirdly, the immediate suspension of all policies of persecution and repression against the hmong people and other minorities in laos. fifthly, and finally, the re-examination, as soon as possible and with the european parliament informed, of the desirability of any economic cooperation between the european union and laos, as provided for in the agreements concluded mentioned in our resolution. i believe, mr president, and i declare on behalf of my whole group, that we cannot continue to help and maintain relations with countries which are known throughout the world to be violators of human rights. it is our responsibility as a european parliament to denounce and say without ceasing what is totally unacceptable.
- mr commissioner, mr president, i just feel a little uncomfortable with this. the issues that are being discussed, as they are again today, in the context of emergencies, are extremely important. i would therefore like us to consider the possibility of not always putting human rights on thursday afternoons, when there are only a few members left. i believe that such serious issues as human rights and freedom of expression should be moved from time to time to a more appropriate time on the agenda, when there are more members of parliament. uganda has long been seen as a showcase for development in east africa. but today it is the worst hotbed of physical integrity and human rights violations, which today should perhaps be called human rights. yesterday's slaves were kidnapped, put in the bottom of the hold, traded for goods or wealth. after a moral clearing-up - notably in durban where they denounced slavery as a crime against humanity - the western countries eventually forgot that other forms of slavery existed today. today, slaves don't wear chains, don't work in cotton fields, slavery doesn't need the question of color to better establish its authority over the black who is soulless. no, you can't! slavery today takes the form of armies that claim to be resistance, that claim to be in the service of self-proclaimed masters, and all this leads to the tragedy we know today: that of child soldiers. child soldiers, you have to know, are children who, as kourouma explains very well in his book, are forced to kill a member of their family in order to be a child soldier. you have to know that they are sexually exploited, as it was said here. you have to know that these children today number 20,000 in uganda and that if this tragedy is possible, it is also because a whole series of countries are helping logistically, financially, militarily countries like sudan and uganda. so i would like to say that, in this respect too, i feel that in the framework of the policies we are pursuing, there are two weights and two measures. a few weeks ago i went to togo, a country to which we have refused aid in the fields of health and education, and perhaps rightly so. so he's grounded. at the same time, a country like uganda is supported by the united states. at the same time, conventions we have signed, such as 'everything but arms', do not apply as such in uganda, where the arms trade continues everywhere. i would like to be sure that all the conventions on trade on the ground, including arms sales, are actually applied in the case of countries like uganda. i would also like to be sure that the various conventions we sign are not just labels to give ourselves a good conscience, because when you are a signatory to the convention on the rights of the child or to a whole series of conventions to protect basic rights, you have no right to continue to act as if nothing had happened. if serious human rights violations, violations of children's rights and murders are indeed the daily lot of uganda today, we must take responsibility. this is not a matter of double standards but of real sanctions and monitoring of the aid we are giving to that country.
- mr president, article 12 does propose to request that the matter be placed on the agenda of a meeting of the cen, the national electoral commission, as the commission representative has said. that doesn't seem relevant to me. laos is not a member of this assembly, so we could ask instead for the asean assembly to be seized. that is not exactly the role of asean, but at least laos is a member and we could take this matter to asean, if the assembly agrees. there is also an error in the original text, mr president. in the original text, we talk about the american journalist. we should talk about the american interpreter since that is his qualification.
in writing. - europe is once again at the top of its game in the culture of paradox. while it is destroying our agriculture by dismantling the cap and the system of direct aid to farmers, it is advocating in this report a special place for family farming and support for small and mediumsized farms, the strengthening of rural development measures and the protection of women on farms and in rural areas in the european union. unfortunately, at a time when the death of our agriculture is being planned - in this respect all the agricultural unions are denouncing the reform of the cap which will take place from 2005 onwards - it seems that the wishes of the committee on women's rights are nothing but wishful thinking. the report rightly denounces the ageing of the female agricultural population, the low number of women in the status of spouse, partner or carer, which places them in an extremely difficult situation as regards their pay, social security, medical care, retirement or professional development. the report also notes the high unemployment rate of women in agricultural regions. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - we obviously voted for this resolution to improve safety on buses, whether it be the wearing of seat belts, driver training or the limitation of driving time. the recent series of fatal accidents has once again highlighted the over-exploitation of drivers, who are driven to sleep at the wheel. we also want to denounce the profit-making race to build buses with ever greater capacity, especially double-decker buses. for the bosses of the transport sector, profitability is far more important than safety.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, many of you know ingrid betancourt, representative of the colombian greens, whose parents have come to this house on several occasions. she was abducted by the revolutionary armed forces of colombia a year and a half ago. the position of the family and the colombian green party as well as the european parliament's green group has been to encourage a humanitarian exchange, while criticising the farc and saying that it is unacceptable to propose a political exchange. yesterday the colombian press received a tape in which ingrid betancourt delivers a triple message. first, if you want to do a military operation to get me out, go ahead, but be careful! secondly, there can only be humanitarian exchanges between the military and, thirdly, as far as we abducted politicians are concerned, there can only be an unconditional release by the farc. i believe that this message, which is quite surprising, is explained both by the extreme courage of ingrid betancourt, who does not hesitate to take risks in the name of her political principles, and, on the other hand, by the farc's willingness to show that they are ready to let their prisoner address public opinion, although it is basically to tell them "attack us!". i ask, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, that resolute support be given to ingrid betancourt's third proposal, namely to ask the farc very clearly for the unilateral release of all their political prisoners, because it is unacceptable to take hostage negotiators or representatives of the population.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to raise the same subject. i would like to express my indignation at a decision by my government, the french government, which classified the transport of radioactive waste as a defence secret. this means that it is now forbidden in france to inform the public and elected officials about the passage of radioactive material. we all know how dangerous highly radioactive waste is and we also know how concerned our fellow citizens are about the issue of radioactive waste, particularly from nuclear power stations. this decree, dear colleagues, is an offense to our freedom of speech. it goes against the european parliament's resolution on the transport of radioactive materials, which we voted for here in february 2001. this resolution called for elected officials and local authorities to be informed of the passage of radioactive waste trains. we also stressed our right to freedom of expression and to demonstrate peacefully during these crossings. i would therefore ask you, mr president, to intervene with the french government to convey the european parliament's resolution to it and to ask it to reverse its absolutely surreal decree. i will continue to inform colleagues and citizens who ask about radioactive train passages.
- mr president, we have seen the disastrous effects of the heat wave this summer - drought, fires, water and air pollution - but above all we are appalled by the deaths of elderly people in particularly high numbers in a country like france. but normally we should not call on the union for help, our european neighbours have also been hit, and a properly run large country should be able to deal with this kind of situation on its own. but france is now in a situation of extreme vulnerability, as fiscal room for manoeuvre has not been restored when it was possible, at a time when tax revenues were plentiful. france also has two very negative features: the operation of the care system is made more difficult, particularly in the summer, by the lack of practitioners and the reduction of weekly working time to 35 hours. a family, it seems, more broken than our neighbors, so natural solidarities played less easily. in this connection, i would point out in passing that the imperative of geographical mobility of workers, often defended by the european union, should be strongly nuanced in order to better preserve, wherever possible, the family and social bond. above all, a major task for the union in the future will be to step up its internal and external action to combat the greenhouse effect and thus global warming. maintaining the current level of co2 emissions would have, among other things, irreversible effects on the climate, and we call on the union to pursue diligently the implementation of the kyoto protocol with a view to better integrating energy and environmental policies. on this point, it will be necessary to promote renewable energies, of course, but above all nuclear energy, which is very economical in terms of co2 emissions. but for nuclear power to be more widely accepted, it is imperative that the question of radioactive waste management and disposal be resolved. to this end, we want to see a major joint research effort which is absolutely a priority, because everything else depends on it. finally, mr president, a third line of thinking: the reduction of greenhouse gases also requires better control of road transport. we believe that the proposal for a directive on the charging of road infrastructure should accept the inclusion in the price of tolls not only of the costs of maintaining the networks but also of the costs of the damage, currently unstated, inflicted by these transports on the environment, and thus on the community.
mr president, commissioner, unfortunately it is the tragedies of this summer that bring us together again to discuss subjects which have already been the subject of much discussion in this house in the past. first of all, as regards forests and forest fires, we express our deepest sympathy to the victims of these fires, particularly in portugal but also in other countries which have suffered the same disasters, because these are real ecological disasters in southern europe. the burned forests will have to be rebuilt in accordance with the climatic and ecological characteristics. these forests have burned, but other forests will also suffer the consequences of the drought. we have to go through our mountainous regions to see these trees already completely roasted before the autumn arrives. we must restore these forests and we can ask ourselves whether we have succeeded in making a real rural development policy with our agricultural policy. the agricultural policy has cost us some farmers. unfortunately, we can now say that if we had had a few more farmers on our land, the land would have been better maintained and the forests would have been better established, which would not have been the only alternative to desertification, but productive forests. a colleague of mine spoke earlier about wood as a source of energy, and i am in favour of it and i am developing it myself in a field for which i am responsible. we must perhaps review our agricultural policy and support our farmers first, who will suffer terribly from the consequences of this drought, since everyone says that this is a year of income that will disappear to take account of the consequences of this drought. farmers nowadays do not know how to feed their animals and are waiting for help to arrive quickly. they've been promised, but most of the time they're too late to get to the field. we must show at european level that we are capable of implementing a policy of proximity. the grasslands will also have to be rebuilt, and in the medium-mountain areas - areas which you know well, commissioner, and to which you are very attached - they will have to be rebuilt, even though there is no irrigation and no mechanical means available to farmers in areas which are very difficult to exploit. finally, i would also like to mention the water problems, since we may not have been able to put in place a water policy capable of overcoming the difficulties encountered. we also talked about the ageing of populations. i had asked, during the work of the convention preparing the future european constitution, that public health be an important element of that constitution. unfortunately, this has not been taken into account so far, and i regret it. so if i have one more point to make, i would simply like this link between disasters and climate change to finally encourage us to respect and implement the kyoto protocol. i don't think taxation is the answer. europe must innovate, it must convince governments and people that it is better to support a different agricultural policy, that forests that are productive forests must be restored. we also need decentralised, neighbourhood policies and, above all, a redefinition of energy and transport policy. finally, we simply need to have a genuine european policy on sustainable development.
- mr president, commissioner, it is true that many european countries have suffered from exceptional temperatures all summer long, and that is the subject of this evening's debate, and today is indeed the time to take stock. the consequences of this heat wave on the people and the territories are terrible. in portugal, colleagues have mentioned, the fires have destroyed 5% of the country. this is a national disaster. as far as france is concerned, i would first of all like to express my emotion, but also my indignation, at the scale of the human tragedy we have experienced. the french government announced on friday that more than 11,000 additional heat-related deaths were recorded between august 1 and 15. these numbers are terrifying. they should certainly make us reflect on the duty of solidarity of each of us towards the most vulnerable. but national governments, particularly the french government, as well as the european union, must also reflect on the importance of public health policies, the need for quality hospital emergency services that are accessible to all and in sufficient numbers, and the need for retirement homes with trained staff and the means to provide high-quality services, in short, an ambitious policy for the elderly and the most vulnerable. all of this requires budgets, so political choices that direct public spending toward meeting the needs of all. as regards the fires, which have particularly affected the var region in france, and even more so other european countries, we are faced with a number of questions. what is the current response to these disaster areas? how can we manage these crises more effectively in the future? and more importantly, could this have been avoided, and through what prevention policy? these questions also apply to the terrible consequences of drought for agriculture. you, commissioner, have provided a number of answers and ideas to these questions, but in both cases, fires and drought, it is indeed necessary to provide for emergency aid - such as the european solidarity fund - in addition to national aid, in favour of the regions affected by the fires. for farmers, many of whom are facing dramatic situations, the european union must at least allow national governments to grant them exceptional short- and medium-term aid. in france, the situation in the affected areas is dire: it is estimated that 50 to 100% of the production of non-irrigated cereals in the lot and garonne will be lost. the lack of fodder is a direct threat to the herd. farmers everywhere are facing a very significant drop in income. in parallel with this aid, it is necessary to consider the mechanisms to be implemented and the effective management of crises linked to exceptional natural situations. this too requires public resources which cannot be used in competition. finally, on prevention and causes. i would like to follow the example of other colleagues and stress the need to rethink the models of land use planning, of the development of our agriculture and of transport, as they exist today. it is clear that the tendency to make space more and more profitable, to not invest in fire prevention under the pretext of saving money, to give priority to large farms and yield, to favour road transport always at the expense of rail - and i am not developing - is fraught with dangers. another model is indeed to be invented, one based on a genuine consideration of the environment, the collective interest and solidarity. we must indeed show a much greater determination to implement the kyoto protocol, but in conclusion i hope that all the tragedies experienced by our fellow citizens in recent weeks will at least raise awareness.
- mr. president, 12,000 deaths in ten days, that's three times the number of the twin towers. a thousand deaths a day, dying in solitude, in abandonment. the bodies were stored in refrigerated trucks, in army crates, in a fruit and vegetable market in the paris region of rungis. you have to go back to neanderthals, long before antigone, to see the taboo of burial being violated. where is this timisoara? where is milosevic? baghdad under saddam? in heider's austria? in the camps guarded by the kapos that berlusconi spoke of? in somalia, in rwanda, the thousand hills? it's happening in france! the france of the world championships in athletics, the france of human rights, the france of gold medals, the france of valéry giscard d'estaing, the father of the constitution, whose first article recognises the right to dignity, including for the elderly. where did these dead come from? 66% were in nursing homes, hospitals, special centers. we didn't give them anything to drink. they died of dehydration. why would you do that? because there were no nurses, there were no staff, there were no doctors. why would you do that? because the fiscal stability pact requires savings and cuts must be made. so cuts are made at the expense of the weakest, who cannot demonstrate, at the expense of the old. most of the dead are women. they didn't die from domestic violence, as the women's committee believes. they didn't die of discrimination or lack of parity, they died of dehydration. which brings us to the causes, namely the accumulation of collective errors over the last twenty years. the collective error of ultraliberalism, of economism - in the 19th century, ultraliberalism caused zola, victor hugo, the proletariat and millions of deaths, and ultraliberalism is starting to cause deaths again. the collective error of right-of-humanism, which forgot lenin between formal rights and real rights, not to mention the pharisaism whose proclamation of values is proportional to their violation. so what do you do? of course, mr barnier, we can announce appropriations, plans, a new economy, a new hierarchy. the truth is that among the dead, statistics say, there is not a single representative of the caste and the upper middle class. it's the poor little ones who died. it's a good thing they banned meat meal, otherwise it would have ended up in granules in the pig battery farms. but it is true that pigs are not abandoned, unlike the old french.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as commissioner barnier has said, it is important that the union express its solidarity with the countries affected in their forest stocks and agricultural production. however, it would be very serious to reduce this summer's ecological disaster to the economic losses it caused. firstly, it is a huge humanitarian catastrophe, equivalent to ten times the attacks of 11 september for the whole of europe. in fact, it is the first major economic and humanitarian disaster caused by climate drift in the temperate zone. this climatic drift has come into contact with another equally catastrophic trend: the development of a population that is increasingly isolated, although increasingly dependent because it is aged. i leave it to my colleagues in the green group to develop the absolute urgencies arising from this terrible experience, from this condemnation of our development model: the need to accelerate kyoto, the rejection of economic recovery based on a highway programme, the discrediting of nuclear energy as an alternative to fossil fuels, the obligation to adapt our flora and our habitat to the changes already undergone. but just as important is the adaptation of our healthcare system and social solidarity networks to protect our seniors from the climate shock. the loosening of family ties, including geographical proximity, due to the individualisation of our societies and increasing mobility, is largely irreversible and not always a negative phenomenon. our elders, ourselves tomorrow, will be able to cope with this, provided that services of general interest are developed as compensation, whether in the public sector or in the third sector, associations and cooperatives. if france has been particularly affected, is it not primarily because for the last two years the subsidies to the associations which run the retirement homes have been halved, as have been the reductions in the allowances for the support of dependent persons? this is why we are asking the commission to start drafting a green paper on the protection of older people against climate and health risks in general, building on best european practices.
- mr president, commissioner, i should first like to express my deep concern and a little fear at the deaths of many people associated with the health crisis which has so cruelly affected the elderly in our country, france, but also in other countries. i think our concern should go to them first. but i shall be speaking mainly about the problems of forest fires. every year, unfortunately, we are in the habit of showing our compassion: last year it was the floods in central europe, this year it is the fires. we generally find the right words and our sincerity is not in doubt, but we often feel powerless to put in place a genuine european response. for a long time, we had nothing but words until, after debates across all our political groups, and on your initiative, commissioner, and i congratulate you, we set up this solidarity fund which today responds to a very broadly shared commitment to ensure that the european union is as close as possible to its citizens, especially when they are in great distress. you have informed us of the commitment of this new instrument. i think he's doing a great service. it is a great relief in times of crisis, but we are now, in a strange twist of history, experiencing the same situation with forest fires. we used to have a specific policy, instrument and budget. this was mentioned by mrs ferrer, it is not old, it dates from 1992. it was a european regulation of direct access for all forestry farmers or public authorities who own a forest, allowing them to invest preventively - as you said, commissioner, it is better to prevent than to cure - in concrete firefighting equipment: firewalls, water points, access roads and so on. we thought it appropriate to abolish this regulation at the beginning of the year. the regulation had a budget of eur 52 million for the period 1992-97 and eur 77 million for the period 1997-2002. today we are being offered another regulation with a very different purpose, in which forest fire protection is not mentioned and is not budgeted, namely forest focus for 41 million euro. if we continue along this path, we would remember that in 2003, a catastrophic year for forest fires, the european union took the decision to withdraw from its policy of protecting the forest against fires. i think we must avoid the ridicule of dismissal in the eyes of our fellow citizens. mr commissioner, there are a number of us here, in all the seats, who consider that €60 million is a very high price to pay to damage europe's image, to disengage us from a preventive tool that works, that gives satisfaction and that is required by all european foresters, should a disaster of this kind occur. i therefore ask you to repeat the curious exercise we did on the solidarity fund with very strong opposition. it was only after the german floods that the need for a solidarity fund was finally recognised. perhaps it was the dramatic portuguese fires that led us to return to this regulation on forest fire protection, which has honoured us and whose abandonment would, i believe, now be a very bad sign.
- mr president, commissioner, at this very moment, fire is still ravaging part of the maures massif in france. desolation, dismay, anger, that's what you feel when you walk through these burnt areas. and if it is true that, for the commission, you proposed the solidarity fund, what can the fund do in the face of the scale of the claims and the costs they generate? whole sectors of the economy are being wiped out. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. who will pay for the restoration of nature, for the rehabilitation of natura 2000 areas which we have such difficulty classifying because they are too coveted by the development of tourism? and have we not missed other disasters, such as the water from our rivers which no longer cooled the nuclear power stations, the water from these rivers into which the french government, for example, has allowed the discharge of even warmer water? it is high time that we stopped charging, mr president, commissioner. you yourself have recalled our kyoto commitments on global warming. but what is the union doing to impose another transport policy, another energy policy? because this heat wave, as we all know and have said time and again, is a foretaste of the problems we will have to face. the weather forecasters are unanimous: we must expect more heat waves. after these disasters, we must act immediately, commissioner. and that's where, as we all know, the stick hurts. even here we do not give the same meaning to the terms we use. sustainable development, sustainable transport, sustainable economy, all european policies today are sustainable. but to deal with the ecological crisis, we need to change our policies, and our policies need to be environmentally sustainable. we must have an environmental policy which is not always the fifth wheel of the cart, as it is today. the environment must be a priority in our policy choices. we know that this is still not the case. we also have the technical means - it is not necessary to elaborate on them here - as you know very well, in the commission, to cope with this, but it is the political choices that are sorely lacking, and this, whatever our governments say. so, commissioner, we are really counting on you to convince politicians to make other choices.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to express my sympathy to all the regions of southern europe ravaged by the dramatic fires. these events are a real human, environmental and economic tragedy. as you said, commissioner, repairing costs more than preventing, so prevention must be given the attention and funding it deserves. in this respect, i can testify that the networking of the forests of aquitaine by the installation of tracks, firewalls, ditches, the multiplication of water points and the establishment of watchmen has allowed a very significant limitation of the spread of the fledgling fires. these preventive measures were financed by a european regulation on forest fire protection, the famous 2158/92/eec; unfortunately, it expired at the end of 2002. however, despite the undoubtedly beneficial effects of this regulation, the commission, in its forest focus proposal - as many of us have pointed out - has only taken up the fire monitoring aspect. the prevention part has been integrated into the rural development framework, which is much more random in its financing. the commission thus demonstrates its intention to abandon a purely european policy of forest fire protection and to renationalize this policy. i consider this abandonment to be a political, economic and environmental mistake. long before the terrible fires of this summer, i mean long before, and more specifically on 29 april last, i wrote to the president of the european commission, romano prodi, to express my surprise at the commission's position. the commission has voted in favour of rejecting parliament's amendments incorporating fire prevention in forest focus at first reading. in reply, i received only a reassurance of this surprising line of conduct. as the european parliament prepares to discuss the forest focus proposal at second reading, we must mobilise to include measures on fire prevention in forest focus. in the community budget, this funding is a drop in the bucket, but, commissioner, it is a drop in the bucket that will put out many fires.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the owninitiative report by mr pomés ruiz, which i commend for its clarity, stresses the need to take account of the territorial dimension of cohesion policy beyond its purely economic and social aspects. this policy must be based on the principle of solidarity, so that disparities between regions are reduced and the principle of equality between european citizens is established, regardless of where they live. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations, in particular the future of the union's external relations. i support the rapporteur's view that it would be a mistake to concentrate all the financial efforts on the new member states and forget the existing eligible areas. it should be borne in mind that regional disparities will increase as a result of enlargement. i welcome the proposal to supplement article 158 of the treaty in order to take better account of the structural handicaps of islands, mountains and sparsely populated regions in relation to the intensity of the constraints they face. it is essential that these regions, which were left behind in previous programming periods, be recognised in terms of accessibility, communication, infrastructure, financing and access to public services, in order to avoid exodus and an ageing population. the endelave declaration was signed during the edd group's study visit to endelave, an island of 183 inhabitants in central denmark. it aims to take into account the specificity of small european islands that can function perfectly and allow their inhabitants to have access to quality services, such as ferry transport, doctors, veterinarians, schools, pastors, domestic helpers, libraries, etc., while financial efforts are made in terms of solidarity. finally, in the name of the principle of subsidiarity, i would like to stress the importance of involving the states and their decentralised authorities more closely in cohesion policy, since they are closer to and more aware of the territorial realities of their region.
- mr president, the rapporteurs say that ensuring social cohesion in an enlarged europe means leveling the differences between countries and regions, but they do not say a word about inequalities within countries, including the richest ones. how can we talk about economic and social cohesion in a society where the gap between the incomes of the richest and the poorest is widening? how dare we talk about it when large companies, in order to increase the market value of their shares, lay off part of their staff knowing that they are pushing their employees towards poverty. what does the term social cohesion mean when the policy of governments is, by using the word reform, to attack workers by reducing their pensions, extending the working week, reducing social protection, blocking wages, spreading precariousness, all so that large companies can make more profits and shareholders can increase their wealth? what does it mean when governments reduce the allocation of funds for essential public services in order to reduce the tax burden of the richest? the european union, therefore, cannot tackle social inequalities and will not eliminate inequalities between regions either, because the two are linked.
- mr president, commissioner, there is today, in the context of the debate on the future of regional policy, a very broad consensus to maintain priority for the regions whose development is lagging behind. the concentration of resources on objective 1 regions should thus be one of the key pillars of cohesion policy for the period 2007-2013, as it is already the case today, following the principles of solidarity and redistribution. the entry of the candidate countries into the european union will statistically lower the average community gdp and the commission's progress report states that 18 regions should be excluded from objective 1 for this reason, while still benefiting from aid under the phasing-out mechanism. the dom will not be affected by this threat and will therefore continue to benefit from objective 1 in 2007, as their gdp per capita will remain well below 75% of the new community average. equity between territories should also be strengthened by taking into account the permanent constraints on island, mountain and sparsely populated regions. this community intervention would be weighted by a number of territorial criteria, both in the definition of priorities and in the amount of funds to be granted. it seems to me, however, useful to recall that the concept of the outermost regions cannot in any case be confused with that of peripheral, insular or structurally disadvantaged regions, whatever the links of solidarity which may unite all these regions, since the outermost regions owe their particular legal status primarily to their remoteness from the european continent. the contribution of the other union policies is the weakest point of this progress report, from the point of view of the governance that should be put in place to ensure the best possible impact of cohesion policy on the territories. i am thinking in particular of agriculture or rural development, transport, innovation, education and training, and competition policy in the context of regional state aid and derogating tax regimes. i would like to conclude, however, with two encouraging observations. first, the unanimous desire for a real improvement in the financial circuits and the way the structural funds are managed. secondly, and lastly, there was a marked decline in the theses advocating a renationalization of regional policy, which would have certainly marked a sudden halt in the construction of europe.
- mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i too thank the two rapporteurs who have stressed the importance of cohesion policy and solidarity policy, particularly in structurally disadvantaged areas, for the european union and therefore for its citizens. in the general context of the challenge to the basic policies of the european union, which sees the press relaying demagogic remarks about their 'additional costs', it is urgent to emphasise its essential nature, especially in all the regions that have benefited from it so far. we can see how far behind they would be if the union had not come to their aid. these policies have made the european union come alive in the eyes of its citizens, by talking to them about solidarity, redistribution and creating bridges between areas that were not experiencing the same difficulties. i do not hesitate to say that these policies have made the union a reality. it is our responsibility to ensure that they can continue. let us not be mistaken: the european budget must not be restructured to regain its dynamism, but increased. if the union wants to do more, it must provide the means. i would like to emphasize one point: it concerns our development indicators. gdp alone is no longer a relevant criterion. having achieved a certain degree of macro-equity in europe, it is time to refine these criteria. the consideration of microeconomic indicators - and i am thinking in particular of regions in the process of desertification, suffering from structural handicaps in the fields of employment, training, equipment, accessibility and demographic change - must be a permanent guide in our approach. i also hope that the commission, with all the necessary staff after the reform, will ensure that all the appropriations from these funds are actually spent.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the first challenge facing the future of regional policy is, of course, enlargement. the development gap between the richest and poorest regions will be doubled; we must therefore rise to the challenge of cohesion. territorial cohesion, firstly, to take account of the union's geographical diversity, so that all european citizens are treated equally. economic and social cohesion, so that the union's most fragile regions are not sacrificed on the altar of enlargement. it is the acceptance of enlargement by the people themselves that is at stake. it is the coherence of our common project that is being put to the test. we must build a regional policy which is solidary, fair, unitary but not uniform, which takes account of the different regional situations. it is therefore welcome that the convention has chosen to maintain the content of article 299 (2) of the treaty on the outermost regions in prominent place in the future constitutional treaty. this is a first victory, but it has yet to be confirmed by the heads of state or government. there is still a long way to go, and the crucial questions remain unanswered. how important, for example, is the report published this summer, which raises fears of a possible renationalization of regional policy? how can regional specificities be better taken into account in the next financial programming? finally, how can the unique and original dimension of the outermost regions be translated into practice in the future programming period? commissioner, it is by the proposals you will make in the coming months that people will judge the europe we are building. i want a europe that is socially just, economically competitive and, above all, territorially balanced.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, a happy autumn to all and a fruitful start to the year. i hope we all learned over the summer that there is life outside parliament. but it is time to ask ourselves honestly whether the current regional policy is responsive to real needs. i do not think that policy should be continued in its present form with only minor changes. parliament has stressed that 0.45% of the union's national income must be used to finance this policy. but why this? first, the needs of the regions should be identified and the most cost-effective ways of meeting them. it is not wise to commit a certain amount in advance. of course, you can sink any amount into a bottomless pit, but is that wise? we still need a responsible regional policy in the eu, of course. but does it make sense to distribute aid to all the regions, leaving each one with only the crumbs at the greatest administrative cost? the uk proposal to support only the poorest regions of the eu should be considered. in practice, this would mean that only the new member states would receive aid. other regional subsidies would be nationalised to avoid eu bureaucracy. but, ladies and gentlemen, i would stress that the present member states would not be lost in the reform, because with enlargement the subsidies would in any case be dramatically reduced. naturally, the membership fee of the present member states would be reduced by the amount of the reduced subsidies. unfortunately, a change of this magnitude will still hit the wall of politics. it's always been the job of a politician to share other people's money. but the common money should be treated even more carefully than our own, because all waste is always out of the reach of the least advantaged in society. if we are to make the eu a dynamic area, as we have said in lisbon, we must understand that even in the era of gmos, money does not grow on trees. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we owe it to our voters to act honestly and in their long-term interests.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is my second speech in less than an hour - a rare one! now i can slow down my pace for the fall. i am glad that we are finally getting a common eu airline policy, because the current situation is ridiculous and needs to be reviewed. the court of justice's ruling last year was very positive news. before the judgment, the us had a real throttling effect on the member states, thanks to bilateral agreements. the open skies agreements have prevented mergers between our airlines, because they have not been allowed to fly to the united states from any country other than the one where the european company is registered. the impossibility of mergers has kept our airline market fragmented, which in turn has undermined the competitiveness of our airlines and led to high price levels. once again, the consumer's interest has been overshadowed by the benefits achieved. instead of a national approach based on a cap and trade approach, it should be seen that national airlines are not intrinsic value, but that low and efficient air fares are, because the customer - the european - is always right. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the commission's proposals on air transport agreements are therefore entirely appropriate. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr schmitt, for his thorough and pragmatic approach. when autumn comes, the birds fly south. if we allow air travel to become more competitive, then even the less well-off europeans will have the opportunity to follow them by flying.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, we must put this text back into the whole maritime safety framework. it is one of the elements, a piece of this maritime accident prevention system. the commission proposal, as the commissioner has just said, is intended to make things easier, that is to say to prevent duplication of work and to limit the administrative burden. i would like to remind you of some figures: the european union has 120 000 seamen, of whom seamen from outside the community have increased from 29 000 in 1983 to 34 500 in 2001. it is therefore legitimate to ensure that their training is the best possible and fully complies with the international convention known as stcw - which aims to safeguard human life at sea and improve the protection of the marine environment, as well as to combat ships that do not comply with the standards and practice social dumping. in short, it is an illustration of the rules that can be applied to globalisation. the text deals with two points. the first simplifies the recognition of the training of seafarers from third countries. the report supports this approach, which i could sum up as follows: before, the initiative came from the member states, now it belongs to the commission. the current procedure is very complicated and very long and as such it deserves to be simplified. the second point concerns compliance with the linguistic requirements of the stcw convention. our committee also supports your proposal to establish a common language, whether known or learned, in the event of a ship taking on board seamen from different countries, in order to ensure dialogue with those responsible on shore. the committee responsible and the committee for opinion, which is involved in the preparation of the report, want things to go quickly, much as they did for the elimination of single-hull boats. we must not delay because we all remember the double, i would even say triple or quadruple accidents off our coast, namely the accidents of the tricolor, the ivoli sun, the erika and the prestige. since we are never immune to an accident, we must make our decisions quickly. hence the spirit of compromise which, i believe, prevailed at the informal trilogue meeting of 17 june between the commission, the council and parliament, of which i shall give you a brief summary. parliament had proposed in its amendments nos 3, 12, 15 and 17 the recognition of individual training establishments. the commission tells us that it is impossible to inspect them one by one, citing the example of the philippines where there are perhaps a hundred. the country as a whole must therefore be considered, even if it has only one or two establishments. we note this. parliament wants to introduce a certificate of conformity to limit fraud as much as possible. at the aforementioned meeting, the commission undertook, and i think this line must be maintained, to propose a draft text on this issue within the year. that would be the condition for us to agree with his opinion. amendment no 10 poses a problem for the member states as regards continuing training, since it must be financed by the seafarer's states and not by the european union. we note that. on the other hand, our committee does not want to drop amendments nos 1 and 2 on the promotion of the seafarer's profession. the same applies to quality assurance or fraud prevention. as regards amendment no 23, which concerns an evaluation report to be submitted after five years, i think you agree with this proposal. our committee has also been asked to amend the time limit for transposition of the legislation into the member states. we said 12 months, you're proposing 18 months. we can take note of that suggestion. finally, amendment no 19 has been amended by the council and we can accept the new text.
mr president, the text we are considering today is in fact directly linked to the fundamental question of maritime safety and we must approach it with the recent disasters that have struck our coasts in mind and which are clearly linked to issues of insufficient training of crews. the increase in recent years in shipwrecks caused by human error, as well as in fatal collisions and escape attempts, is a sign both of serious shortcomings in the training of crews and of the absence of the basic culture of demanding solidarity among seafarers. our fishermen are working today in the fear of a collision with a merchant ship. unfortunately, these collisions have become common along our coasts. we also note, and i am thinking in particular of the case of the french fishing vessel cistude, which was gutted just a year ago by the norwegian freighter bow eagle, the difficulty of the families of seafarers who were victims of these accidents in obtaining compensation for the damage they suffer. in this case, the offence of absconding, which led to the deaths of several seamen, should be punished only by a light prison sentence. in fact, the recruitment of crews in third countries and in fact from manning agencies, these recruitment agencies which, according to some, are more concerned with collecting high commissions on the salary of seamen they provide to shipowners than with ensuring their qualifications, must be considered a bad idea. a genuine prevention of disasters in which the human factor plays a decisive role must therefore be organized around two aspects and not one. the first is a voluntary component of training crews composed of nationals of the member states of the european union, before encouraging and facilitating the recruitment of seafarers from third countries, as this directive aims to do. the real causes of the current shortage of qualified seafarers in the union must be seriously examined and a proactive policy developed to correct this negative trend. that is why i find amendments nos 1 and 2 tabled by the committee quite relevant. the second aspect of this prevention concerns the absolute need to ensure the highest possible guarantees of quality and effective training when foreign seamen are recruited by ships flying the flag of a member state of the union. although this is difficult, it would be desirable to have control extended to the level of training establishments, as suggested by amendments nos 12 and 15; i also think that it is appropriate to introduce a progressive check to avoid the provisions of the directive being frozen for a long period, as proposed in amendment no 23. but why should we want to discharge the member states of their responsibilities in this area, which is primarily a matter of security? the european maritime safety agency will certainly be able to provide useful expertise in the assessment of training. but why should this evaluation of third countries be reserved exclusively for the commission and the agency? finally, mr president, why would you want to deprive member states of the right to revoke recognition visas when they consider it essential for their security?
in writing. - we voted in favour of this report on the protection of workers against the risks related to exposure to carcinogens or mutagens, which requires employers to take measures to protect workers and to restrict their use. but the best protection would be to avoid products with such serious health risks and to replace them with less harmful products as soon as techniques are developed and alternatives are discovered.
in writing. - this report is another attempt to unify the patchwork of disparate national regulations on fertilisers. why not? why not? but we do not want to endorse, by a positive vote, in advance, what this regulation might be used for once it is made available to the fertiliser chemistry trusts. this is all the more so since, in the case of the highly toxic presence of cadmium in certain fertilizers, the european authorities are once again refraining from putting pressure on certain states, and behind them on their chemical groups, to stop producing and authorizing fertilizers harmful to the environment or to health. thus, not only did they not meet the deadline of 31 december 2001 which they themselves had set, but they have just granted them a further scandalous delay until the end of 2005.
in writing. - vat, like all indirect taxes, is a scandal. it is a tax paid at the same rate by the poorest and the richest, by the unemployed and the billionaire. in other words, the real problem is not the "administrative cooperation" between states, as the author of the report proposes, but the fact that the share of vat in state revenue is much higher than that of income tax, which is at least somewhat proportional to the income of the taxpayer. we demand the complete abolition of vat and its replacement by a tax on income and wealth, which should be graduated sufficiently to ensure that the tax paid by the rich classes compensates for the shortfall in income generated by the abolition of indirect taxes. we voted against this report.
in writing. - this report takes up in substance, if not in form, the complaints of dutch employers against european provisions which might have the effect, not of preventing, but of making it a little less easy to dismiss their employees residing in another member state. this situation, although the result of a combination of exceptional circumstances, is considered intolerable by employers and the dutch authorities, as is the rapporteur who calls on the commission to 'look into (this) problem'. as if the european authorities needed such encouragement to trample on the rights of workers, whose hearts, concerns and actions are already too much in favour of employers! we have of course voted against this report.
in writing. - air transport is one of the many illustrations of the fact that the so-called european union is above all the result of rivalries of interests between states and their trusts and large groups. the european authorities would like europe to be a bloc in global competition. they can't do it. and not more so in the airline sector than elsewhere because the big european airlines are also competing with each other. when they have an interest in associating or concluding agreements with non-european companies, particularly american ones, the opinion of the european institutions cannot prevent them from doing so. the report's author, a supporter of free competition, would like to reconcile the search for added value for community airlines with the domestication of the savagery of rivalries. the defence of capitalist europe may be trying to square the circle, but we are voting against this report because we are against this system based on competition, regulated or not, because it is a huge source of waste.
in writing. - we voted against this report. not because we would reject a european agreement with china on shipping, but because the agreement in question bears the stamp of inequality in europe's imperialist relations with the rest of the world. the main points of this agreement are clear, which takes account of the interests of european shipping companies and their shareholders, as well as the interests of the companies linked to them. all this, without the rapporteur, as natural as it must seem to him, even pretending to care about the way in which the shipping industry's supporters, these workers, who are often asian, are treated and the sufferings of which ship owners, especially european ones, and the large groups for which they operate, are fed.
in writing. - this society, fundamentally unequal because of the inequality between social classes, secretes a multitude of other inequalities. thus, certain regions which, because of their geographical location, do not offer all the facilities from the point of view of capitalist profit, inevitably benefit from less investment. the advocates of the liberal economy themselves have no other means of compensating for this inequality than to appeal to the state or, what amounts to the same thing, to the european institutions. we would not be against this type of compensation if it compensated for the disadvantages of the working classes which stem from the very functioning of the capitalist economy. however, the destructive forces of the capitalist economy are more powerful than the ridiculous resolutions of the european parliament. even if subsidies are voted for the less favoured regions, it is not said that in the end it is these regions and their working classes who benefit. the report presents the outermost regions as a model for isolated mountain regions. despite the aid and subsidies, both national and european, reunion, guadeloupe and martinique, to name a few, have a particularly high unemployment rate and particularly low wages. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
- the next item is the continuation of the debate on the report by mr poignant.
the commission. madam president, i would like to thank mr poignant and all the members who took part in the debate. the amendments tabled confirm the commission's approach to the specific procedure for the recognition of seafarers' certificates and are broadly in line with the council's position. the commission is prepared to accept almost half of the amendments voted by parliament which actually improve the proposal. however, the commission cannot agree with the amendments introducing the possibility of withdrawing the recognition of individual maritime training institutions in third countries, namely amendments nos 3, 12, 15, 17 and 20. this would be neither practical nor efficient. the commission is in favour of full and comprehensive recognition of the systems and procedures of the third country, which itself guarantees the educational value of individual institutions. the commission is very grateful to parliament for considering withdrawing these amendments. on the same subject, the commission can accept amendment no 19, which has been slightly amended by the council, which provides for a third country warning mechanism in the event that there are indications that an individual training establishment no longer meets the requirements of the stcw convention, which is the convention that essentially deals with training and certificates. the commission, however, rejects amendment no 24, which proposes to remove the requirement that english be used for ship-to-shore communications when the parties to the conversation do not speak the same language. this provision, which has been approved by the council, merely aligns community legislation with the relevant requirements of the solas convention, which has been applied worldwide since july 2002. i believe that in order to avoid ambiguity in ship-to-shore communications, the parties directly involved in the communication must communicate in the language with which they are most familiar. so if the parties do not speak the same language, they are obliged to communicate in english, otherwise they will not be able to understand each other. i would also like to thank parliament for its very interesting amendments concerning the establishment of a european standard of conformity for the member states' certificates of competency and endorsements, namely amendments nos 4, 5 and 6. this is a valuable indication which the commission will incorporate in a specific legislative proposal on member states' certificates of competency, seeking to facilitate the recognition of certificates between member states while ensuring compliance with the applicable requirements. i would also like to draw your attention to the council conclusions on the improvement of community shipping and the maritime professions, which were adopted by the transport ministers in luxembourg this year, and which called on the commission to submit legislation on the recognition of certificates between member states. the commission will be submitting a legislative proposal on this subject in the near future, so the amendments can be withdrawn because the subject will be specifically covered next year. i would also draw your attention to amendment no 16, which requires member states to inform the commission and the other member states before revoking any visa confirming the recognition of certificates issued by a third country. the commission considers that given the urgency of such a situation, member states should be given the opportunity to withdraw their observations even before informing the other parties. the council agrees with this view and we really think it is important that parliament has decided to reconsider this amendment. last but not least, i fully agree with amendments nos 7 and 13 as amended by the council, which raise the assessment of third countries by ensuring that adequate measures are taken against fraud in respect of certificates. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the member states, and to extend it to cover the whole of the european union. we are confident that the european parliament will support the commission's views on the above amendments. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the directive at first reading will enable us to have an efficient and reliable system for the reception of qualified foreign seafarers on board our ships in the short term.
- thank you, commissioner. during your speech, mrs scallon, who was among the registered speakers, joined us.
- thank you, mrs scallon. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0226/2003) by mr lambert, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the coordination of social security systems (com (98) 779 - c4-0137/1999 - 1998/0360 (cod)).
- madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report by our colleague mr jean lambert contains a number of very interesting measures. the main objective of this report is to ensure that people moving within the union are not disadvantaged in their social security rights. for us in the house, who are very much looking forward to the increase in cultural and human exchanges within the framework of the free movement of persons, this report is a step in the right direction. regulatory simplification, coordination and harmonisation of procedures based on the application of the principle of equal treatment, which grants employees and self-employed persons of other member states the same rights as citizens of the competent state, all contribute to the construction of europe. some of the measures in the report are particularly noteworthy. i personally think that they are in line with the evolution of our societies. i am thinking in particular of the desire to regulate motherhood and fatherhood together, the proposal to include third-country nationals in the scope of the directive, and the definition of household members which applies to unmarried partners in a lasting relationship, regardless of their sex. while i and my group support this report, i would like to stress the paradox, madam commissioner, between the will shown and the threats of a regression in the social security systems in many european countries. france, italy and germany, for example, are on the verge of or already affected by reforms aimed at breaking up existing social protection systems, under the pretext of excessive budget deficits in the light of the maastricht criteria. the increase in the scope of action of private bodies is leading to a decrease or even a disappearance of national solidarities, which are a serious danger for the future. yet the principles and objectives that underpinned the establishment of social security systems in europe are still relevant to developing a european social model that has proven itself in enabling growth and the well-being of people for decades. i would add that these objectives are even more necessary in the light of the increase in precariousness and poverty in europe today. according to a recent eurostat study, 15% of the eu population is at risk of poverty and social exclusion. if all social transfers are removed, the rate rises to 24% and the situation is likely to worsen. the question we face today in europe goes far beyond the establishment of coordination, which is essential. it is a genuine choice of society. do we want a model of economic and social development based on fairness and solidarity, which will enable us to foster growth, or are we heading towards the disappearance of all social systems, at the risk of increasing the number of the precarious, the poor and the excluded? choosing the former would require the establishment of genuine european social governance, based on harmonisation from the top down. this would of course also involve reviewing the maastricht criteria.
- madam president, freedom of movement is one of the four fundamental freedoms enshrined in our treaties. ensuring that people moving within the european union are not prejudiced in their social security rights and, therefore, coordinating national social security legislation is therefore an essential element, as a number of my colleagues have said. i am therefore convinced that harmonious and coordinated social security systems are a valuable asset for our european societies. the rights acquired, the simplification policy on early retirement, the clarity in the event of illness, the advantages suggested by our colleagues on disability are the fundamental elements for improving this report, which is particularly concerned with the social protection of frontier workers and those who move within our territory. although they represent only a small percentage of the total population, the problems they face must of course be given our full attention. i have a specific example in mind: i remember bringing doctors from belgium to paris who had practised in their country for 20 years. when they arrived at the public assistance in paris, they had lost all their rights. we should therefore welcome this text. however, some amendments in this report seem to pose problems. i am thinking in particular of amendment no 3 and the extension of the scope of the regulation, which i do not think is appropriate, given the financial impact such a measure could have. amendment no 20 seems to me to be an unnecessary disturbance of the rules of procedure. that is why i believe that our parliament must be quite reasonable in adopting amendment no 49, as our colleague mrs oomen-ruijten suggested earlier in her speech.
- madam president, as my predecessor did, we must not only congratulate my colleague jean lambert, the rapporteur, for the work he has done, but also, madam commissioner, your services for the work they have done and for the coordination that has been able to be established between the parliamentary committee and the commission in order to succeed in simplifying and modernising a text which concerns one of the fundamental elements of our european union, namely the freedom of movement - as you said - not only of workers but of all our fellow citizens. this text is simplified and modernised and takes account of the interpretations of the court of justice, but also of the current realities of work and of certain types of individual workers. i think we should be happy about this and ask that this work be completed before the end of the year, before enlargement, because this will simplify progress. in the short time i have, i would like to concentrate on one issue: the situation of frontier workers. these people are europeans par excellence and ultimately they are the ones who suffer the differences in legislation and understand the advances of europe the least, while they are in a situation where everything should be done to facilitate the exercise of their work across borders. we can see the progress that has been made, as has been said. however, i would like to stress the need to seek new consultations, new institutional cooperation between the member states, when difficulties in applying these regulations persist, particularly in cases of divergent application. these differences are numerous, and there are delays in resolving them. on this essential question, proposals are being put forward in amendments nos 51 and 52 which will be put to the vote tomorrow. i believe that this question of coordination involves continuous effort and adaptation. today, coordination is necessary as the responsibility for these areas lies with the states. but that does not prevent us from raising the question of the harmonization necessary to defend the european social model.
- madam president, it is obvious that the myriad of laws and regulations governing social protection in the various countries of europe must be harmonized. but harmonization is achieved at least and never by seeking to align the social legislation of all countries with that of the country where it is most favourable to workers. some of the amendments tabled by the european parliament improve the proposal for a council regulation and we shall vote in favour of them. but how can we discuss these few adjustments without denouncing the policy followed by the european states, the general meaning of which is to weaken the social protection of workers, to reduce pensions, to increase social security contributions while reducing benefits: in short, what we are witnessing in the majority of european countries? the situation is gradually or abruptly brought to a point where it becomes virtually impossible for low-paid employees, precarious workers or the unemployed to obtain adequate health care. access to healthcare is increasingly becoming the privilege of the rich. it's not decent. why this policy when national wealth is increasing, albeit slightly, but it is still increasing? for example, in france we are told that the social security system is in deficit. why is she in deficit? partly because of unemployment, a situation for which workers are not responsible but are, on the contrary, the victims. partly and more because the state draws from the social security funds to give gifts to the big business through reductions in social charges. what governments call pension reform or social security reform is a large-scale robbery at the expense of the wage earners and for the benefit of a minority of rich parasites. well, i take this opportunity to say that the workers of europe have a moral right to defend themselves, to strike, to demonstrate because there is no other way for them to oppose what is really organized robbery.
commission. madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs lambert, for her excellent report, especially because in order to draw up this kind of report on this particular issue it is not enough to be a sensitive politician: one must be a very committed technocrat. it is such a complex and difficult area. i would also like to thank mrs oomen-ruijten and all other members involved. they really have had to work hard, not only in terms of the complexity of the file, but also as regards the problems surrounding unanimity and the huge differences which exist from member state to member state. it is very important to repeat what mrs thorning-schmidt repeatedly underlined: the whole effort aims to modernise and simplify the regulation. it is not a political exercise of harmonisation, which, for legal and political reasons, is totally impossible on this issue. the position of the commission on the various amendments is as follows: the commission can accept in full amendment nos 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 19, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 39, 41, as well as amendment nos 46, 47, 48, 50, 51, 52, 53, and 54, which aim either to clarify and to render more precise the commission's proposal; or, via recitals, to draw attention to certain specific problems which cannot be solved by the rules on coordination of social security schemes; or to incorporate recent case-law of the court of justice. the commission accepts in part amendment no 11, which concerns declarations to be made by the member states about their legislation. however, the proposed text is too rigid. a yearly declaration would be sufficient. although i understand and agree with the ideas behind amendment nos 38 and 40, the commission cannot accept them because these provisions should figure in the implementing regulation instead. the commission cannot accept amendment no 42, which would not amount to simplification at all. the commission has sympathy for the philosophy behind the amendment. the same result can, however, be achieved in another way. this is exactly the objective of amendment no 55, which the commission can accept in full. this amendment is also in line with the proposal the commission presented in july which concerns in particular the list of the so-called special non-contributory benefits, which are not exportable under the current regulation. the commission's proposal aims to reduce the list of these special non-contributory benefits. the majority of the benefits which will be deleted from this list are disability benefits. it is important that this point has been underlined by many members. the disability organisations are also satisfied. the commission has to reject amendment no 1, which aims at coordination between taxation and social security schemes because there is no legal base for such harmonisation. the commission could, however, envisage a recital that is worded in a different way. therefore, the commission can accept amendment no 48. amendment nos 2 and 43 also have to be rejected by the commission because there is no legal basis for such a provision. the coordination rules cannot require a member state to guarantee the right to unemployment benefit to a person who decides to leave employment. we could, however, envisage a provision which reflects the philosophy of these amendments while respecting the limits of coordination. as i said earlier, one of the effects of the commission's proposal will be that unemployed frontier workers will receive unemployment benefits from the state of last employment, rather than from the state of residence as is currently the case. i am aware that this change might have considerable financial consequences for luxembourg, which has a very large number of frontier workers residing in other member states. a transitional period aimed at avoiding a sudden shock for luxembourg seems reasonable. therefore, the commission can accept amendment no 56. the commission cannot accept amendment no 20 because it lies outside the scope of the coordination of the social security schemes. only the applicable national legislation can determine who is a 'member of the family'. there were two particularly interesting comments from mrs weiler and mrs bastos on this point. i could agree with the philosophy behind these comments, and the modernisation of the sense and the definition of 'family', but we must take into account the fact that there is national legislation which defines and determines what a 'member of the family' is. for the same reason, the commission cannot accept amendment no 49. amendment no 27 is too rigid and could lead to problems of interpretation. it cannot be accepted by the commission. amendment no 54 aims at guaranteeing a retired frontier worker the choice of obtaining health care either in the state of residence or in the state of last employment. amendment no 41 has exactly the same objective. although the conditions under which such a right is guaranteed differ in the two amendments, the commission can accept either of the two. in the same way, although there is a difference between amendment no 50 and amendment no 33 as regards the conditions under which the members of the family of a frontier worker are guaranteed a right to obtain health care in the state of employment of the worker, the commission can accept either of the two amendments. finally, as regards amendment nos 44 and 45, these cannot be accepted by the commission because they are outside the scope of the rules on the coordination of social security schemes. to sum up, the commission can accept in full amendment nos 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 34, 35, 36, 37, 39, 46, 47, 48, 51, 52, 53, 55 and 56. it can accept either amendment no 50 or amendment no 33. it can accept either amendment no 53 or amendment no 36. it can accept in part amendment no 11. it cannot accept amendment nos 2 or 43 as proposed, but could envisage another wording for these. it rejects amendment nos 1, 20, 27, 38, 40, 42, 44, 45 and 49 – i think this is the first time i have partly agreed with mr bushill-matthews! i would like to thank mrs lambert and the committee again for their cooperation and for their work on this issue, which is so important for european workers.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0228/2003) by mrs miguélez ramos, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on a communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament entitled 'mid-term review of the fourth protocol on fisheries between the european union and greenland' (com (2002) 697 - 2003/2035 (ini)).
- mr. stevenson, i heard you clearly. you see that the report by mrs miguélez ramos is accepted, since the debate will begin immediately. as regards the second report on fisheries, we shall see whether it is possible to deal with it immediately after mrs ramos' report. we shall now begin the debate on the report by mrs miguélez ramos.
- commissioner, after the reform of the cap, french farmers are worried, we understand them. the drought is also causing a further blow to the livestock industry, particularly the poultry industry. the profession fears that european agriculture will be relocated, that is, sacrificed in the negotiations on the world trade organisation. what strategy do you intend to adopt to make the european agricultural model sustainable? our agriculture is subject to a number of economic, social and environmental constraints. it must therefore continue to be supported as us agriculture has been regularly. what price policy have you negotiated to limit distortions of competition, that is to say to prevent our farmers from selling at world prices by producing at european prices?
commissioner, i appreciate your answer and your effort generally regarding the environment in europe, but what you say is simply not coherent with everyday facts. when this was implemented in finland it was mainly based on old protection schemes, which do not meet directive criteria for natura 2000 sites. therefore, you must understand the position of the private landowners. their right to use their own land was wrongly prohibited and in fact, contrary to what you say, the appeals in the finnish courts were handled en bloc. 99 times out of 100 they were rejected outright. people therefore feel frustrated and powerless. we believe in europe, but how do we convince ordinary european citizens or the finnish farmer if they feel they have been steamrollered by europe and, in this case, by the finnish authorities? they have simply been the victims of injustice.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of binding international legal instruments aimed at promoting and protecting the rights of disabled people - in other words, their dignity - emanating from the united nations is - as you said, commissioner - certainly historic. the european union must therefore encourage and participate fully in this adoption. disabled people want to be able to choose their own way of life freely, with the greatest possible autonomy, and to participate, like all citizens, in the elaboration and decision-making process not only in relation to them but also through the recognition of all their fundamental rights. a community policy worthy of the name must, in my view, be based on existing provisions, as it already is, but must also promote declined legislative measures at all levels, as mrs lynne's report emphasizes. we also know that while legislative measures are necessary, they are not sufficient. a real awareness-raising effort by civil society at all levels - enterprises, social partners, teachers - must therefore be undertaken: all must be encouraged to take account of the specific situations related to disability. this awareness is also necessary for the transposition of the existing directive to be carried out, which is not entirely the case today. the second point is to match our political ambitions and real financial planning to real needs. i could speak of the immense needs that exist, for example, in the fields of education and schooling, whether it be specialised education staff or ordinary education staff, the two are not contradictory. we know that some of the disabled live in situations of exclusion, poverty and dependency. we must respond with actions to develop autonomy, solidarity and integration. in this connection, the report before us today explores a whole series of directions which we must support in all areas of daily life, and these areas are mentioned in it. i believe that the european union and its member states really need to be able to accommodate people with disabilities. it is not about charity, it is about rights and it is about responding to the effective exercise of citizenship, which is the outright demand of disabled people. in this european year, i think the recommendations of our rapporteur are part of that mobilization, which aims to ensure that all those concerned are genuine citizens, as we all are in this house.
in writing. - i would first like to thank mrs lynne for her report which stresses the need for binding international rules to better protect the rights of disabled people. this is a good opportunity to point out that member states are not doing enough to ensure equal rights for disabled people in europe with those of non-disabled people. these are essentially 'access rights' - i.e. access to employment, buildings, e-mail and the internet. these rights may exist on paper, but not in reality. the current eu legislation on discrimination against disabled people only concerns employment. but discrimination is manifested in all areas of daily life, so we must take a horizontal approach and integrate this dimension into all policy areas. the european year of disabled persons is in full swing. it was to mark the beginning of lasting changes for our "invisible citizens". its success will be measured by concrete results, namely the enhancement of the visibility of people with disabilities and the development of more comprehensive anti-discrimination measures. we want the commission to make a firm commitment to the disabled. (abbreviated written declaration pursuant to article 120 (7) of the regulation)
- mr president, yes, there are thousands of women, thousands of children who are beaten every year. this summer we in france experienced the tragedy of the trintignant affair, but such tragedies happen every day. in france, a recent incident reported that a father had stabbed his two children, aged two and three, to death. it's cold in the back. this is the importance of the daphne ii programme. in this connection, mr president, i would like to say that it is regrettable that the conference of presidents is putting such important debates as disability and violence against children on the agenda at such a late hour. these issues deserve more attention from our colleagues. no one will dispute the importance of the daphne ii programme, which is now widely recognised as a major instrument for anti-violence programming and a model of good practice at european level. nevertheless, it seems that this programme was originally designed to provide european added value by complementing actions implemented at national level. however, for the daphne i programme, which expires at the end of this year, only 13% of the eligible projects were selected because of the increasing number of projects to combat violence. i therefore believe that in future, commissioner, it would be necessary to target the categories of people who may be affected by this text more precisely and sometimes to do so with greater openness and flexibility. it is clear that all types of violence deserve to be included in the scope of this text, especially when they affect the most vulnerable. today we are talking about children, tomorrow we could be talking about the elderly or the disabled who are experiencing violence that is equally invisible. the amendments tabled draw our attention to the importance of prevention, public awareness and the need to develop accurate statistics to assess the extent of violence. i do not want to repeat what my colleagues have said about the need for a substantial financial envelope. i also agree with amendment no 39 by my colleague mrs lulling, which draws our attention to the need to set up an assistance service to help ngos in the new member states to develop their projects, since they have not yet received this community funding.
- mr president, we can be pleased that the european union and the european institutions, the commission, parliament and council, have succeeded in building a programme against violence against women. why is it a success? because we know very well that in our own countries it is not so easy. i would like to comment on the difficulty of combating violence against women, an institutional difficulty that was raised earlier by mrs gröner, the rapporteur. it is true that we lack a legal basis. the legal basis for health is not up to the social project that is at stake in this fight against violence. that is the only comment i will make today. i also agree with all the comments on the budget. i also support the idea of putting such important subjects on the agenda at such a late hour. in france, a survey has just been published on violence against women. i would like to say a word about this, because i know that in each of our countries we have enormous difficulties in getting this form of violence recognized and the need to fight against it, but also in getting the existence of this violence recognized. this survey says one very simple thing: there is a continuum between all kinds of violence. the various reports on daphne have already emphasized this, but it should be noted that in our countries it is difficult to say. there is a continuum between domestic violence and violence that occurs in public spaces. this continuum, which should be acknowledged, is being called into question in the media debates i am witnessing in my country. it can be strengthened or weakened by the debate on the various dramatic events that took place this summer: the death of marie trintignant. therefore, my first comment is that we must be able to say, affirm, acknowledge and insist that small and large-scale violence against women and children are one and the same phenomenon. the second problem raised in the media debate - and i suppose it exists in other countries as well - is the denunciation, including by some women, of the existence of a kind of victimization of women, who would exaggerate their status as victims, as well as the need to rebalance the perception of the damage and violence done to women or other victims. in this respect, i think it is important to know that we are dealing with a kind of imaginary confusion, where the fantasy or the representation of love and sex life in the form of passion prevails over reality. i think we have an important task to do in this area: simply to say that there is no victimization and to realize that violence exists and kills every week in each of our countries.
- mr president, commissioner, for those of us who love cuba, its sincere and genuine people, it is with a heavy heart that we see the castro regime's persistent violation of human rights, in particular the right to freedom of expression. the european union, whose objectives are to promote the universality and indivisibility of human rights, civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights, cannot but strongly condemn this authoritarian attitude of the cuban regime towards its people who legitimately aspire to fundamental values. but the european union is not doing away with customs. relations with cuba can easily be described as special relations. cuba is the only latin american country not bound by a bilateral cooperation agreement with the european union, even though some of its member states consider the union to be cuba's main source of trade and investment. after the collapse of the soviet bloc, the union became the island's main partner and as such we believe that the union's leading role offers it exceptional opportunities to exert moral and political influence to advance democracy and respect for human rights in cuba. the other particularity is the island's status within the acp-ep joint assembly. cuba has been integrated as a member of the acp assembly but remains an observer in the joint committee. it is also the only country for which the union requires preconditions for accession to the cotonou agreement. is it not our responsibility, the responsibility of the union, to apply equal treatment? no more or less for cuba than for any other country. in this sense, the union must play a key role in relation to cuba. in respect of its sovereignty and dignity, it can work for an internal democratic transition, a peaceful transition and pursue a policy that can lead cuba to adopt positive measures, such as the signing and application of the united nations conventions on civil and political rights. the cuban people are suffering, they are suffering from the policy of confrontation with the united states after 44 years of embargo and the helms-burton act. they suffer from an authoritarian regime with a ruined economy and it is in the values of the union that these people put their hope. so the union must hear it and the castro regime must accept it.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cuba is today the only country in latin america with which the european community has not concluded a cooperation agreement. i think we are making a mistake on three counts. firstly, we should generally stop choosing the states with which we have cooperation relations on the basis of highly subjective criteria which are linked to political, humanitarian and, often, far too often, to the interests and dictates, it must be said, of american policy. in cuba as elsewhere, we should stick to objective criteria, that is to say, as general de gaulle put it very simply - and this is still the inspiration for french policy - we should recognize states, nation states and not governments. secondly, we should take into account the fact that cuba is one of the countries in latin america closest to europe. the european union is its largest trading partner and largest investor; the cuban culture, literature and music are among the most popular among young people in europe. finally, president castro remains, after many vicissitudes of which we have many witnesses and which, of course, we do not disregard, the incarnation of the rebel of the twentieth century, the defender of the freedom of peoples, which earns this island many sympathies. finally, we should be all the more discreet in the field of human rights, given that the united states - which german minister fischer, during a visit to washington last july, described as the first ally of every european state, without a mandate for that matter - has been using a cuban enclave, guantanamo, for the past year and a half to violate almost all the principles of international law and to settle accounts with methods of another age, in a slightly barbaric way. for all these reasons, i think we should reassess our attitude towards cuba and be more fraternal.
- mr president, at the next part-session we shall have a thorough debate on the institutional dimension of the draft constitution. my group will emphasize what it considers to be positive developments, new parliamentary prerogatives, a provision to stimulate citizen involvement, certain elements of transparency. he will also speak on other institutional aspects which are much more controversial and explain why he is in favour of ratification by referendum. but today i'm going to address a more global problem and ask a sort of preliminary question. a constitution is basically a fundamental law that determines the form of government of a country. it may also set a number of reference values and fundamental rights. in no case can it claim to be able to hold out for 30 to 50 years, since that is the longevity promised to this text by president giscard d'estaing, the freedom of the peoples to choose their model of society sovereignly. democracy is the choice, and what we have before us is not only a reform of the institutional system but also the constitutionalisation of the model of liberal europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the liberal slogan of an open market economy with free competition is repeated four times. but it is precisely against this obsession with all-out competition, against this tendency to reduce all social life to the status of a commodity, that a growing number of our citizens are rising up and mobilizing. the convention's bureau found it aggravating that the bulk of the provisions establishing liberal europe as an untouchable model were contained in the third part of the text. but, as everyone outside this house knows, the 340 articles in this part, that is to say three quarters of the entire draft constitution, were not discussed at all in the convention during the 16 months of work the results of which were presented to the european council in thessaloniki. they were added, it must be said, in secret, in the middle of july, so that most of the editions of the constitution in circulation simply ignore them. it is, in a way, the hidden side of the draft constitution. however, it is in this part that the economic and monetary policy and the exorbitant powers of a european central bank obsessed with price stability and the evolution of wage costs are defined. in other words, it is the most contested substance of the maastricht treaty that you have thus taken up and perpetuated. it is also in these articles that the drastic restrictions on social policy and the design of public services are listed, tolerated as simple, i quote: "services to be reimbursed", in derogation from the rules of competition and the provisions prohibiting state aid. i am deeply convinced that europe is needed more than ever to change the world, and i think it would be very harmful to encourage many anti-liberals to become anti-european. that is why i ask you, mr president giscard d'estaing, whether there will be no change in the future direction of the european union, whatever the political developments in any given country in europe. isn't that a legitimate question? it applies to the economic and social dimension of this project as well as to its political dimension, since article 40, for example, provides that the common security and defence policy will be, i quote, 'compatible with the policy decided within the framework of nato'. will nato be a part of the identity of europe? we can do better in terms of european ambitions, the rehabilitation of politics and the promotion of civic responsibility! as you have very rightly said, mr giscard d'estaing, never forget the people! i'm waiting for your answer.
mr president, do not regard the rashness of some of my remarks as a malicious intention, but as the consequence of the short time i have to speak. i would first like to say that the talents of a midwife cannot be sufficient to erase congenital malformations, in obstetrics as in politics. whatever the intellectual merits of the convention and its president, whatever those of our distinguished colleagues who took part in these proceedings, and first and foremost those of the vice-presidents of my group, mrs muscardini and mr queiró, there was certainly a great naiveté in believing or letting believe that a european constitution alone would make it possible to transform a technocratic european construction into a democratic political entity. everyone agrees that the european union is a democracy. therefore, if there is to be a constitution, it can only come from the constituent power, namely the sovereign people, and it can only be ratified by that same sovereign people. where is the constituent? no one in this convention has received the slightest popular mandate to draft a constitution, and i am surprised to hear the convention members, and the most prominent among them, say that no amendment to the text being drafted can be accepted either by the intergovernmental conference or even by the european council. this is an exorbitant claim. given the importance of a constitutional text, i would add that only a referendum would be able to legalise this major institutional change in the union. but what referendum? the european referendum is necessary, i.e. a consultation organised on the same day in each member state. however, apart from the fact that the referendum procedure is not provided for in all member states, how would one assess the outcome? the whole of europe? nationally? in this case, what would happen if the 'no' vote was a majority in one member state? no satisfactory answers were given to all these questions. it is a political deadlock since the two questions on which success depends are not being asked. how can the power of the people be preserved to approve or reject the stages of this construction? on the other hand, do the peoples of europe want to build an independent europe capable of influencing the world's balance? that is what i wanted to say to you on behalf of a group united in its diversity. let us therefore stop giving in the baroque style and remember the principles of a genuine european construction, the peoples and nations. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after having welcomed the excellent remarks made by president pasqua, i would like to remind you that history teaches us that it is better to make constitutions after making revolutions, rather than the other way around. unfortunately, this has not been the case in the drafting of this so-called european constitution, which for the moment is really a friendly little musical party between old and new, small and large, within the european institutions and between the european institutions themselves. but there were many revolutions within our reach. we could have made an economic and social revolution, overturning the stupid dogmas - i quote president prodi - which, established in maastricht and reinforced in amsterdam, condemn europe and especially euroland to deflation and unemployment, as we see more and more every day. we could have made a political revolution by declaring our independence, affirming our vision of a multilateral world and defending the central role of the united nations in world affairs. we could have even made a cultural revolution by opposing the right of peoples to choose their own way of life and their own solidarity to the commercial organization of the world. above all, we could have made a democratic revolution that would have made europe an extension of our national democracies, instead of organising their withering away, by creating a genuine political space specific to europe, through the congress you proposed and by resorting to the referendum. however, mr president, to do so, it would probably have been necessary to draw more inspiration from rousseau than from montesquieu. everyone knows, mr president, that you have chosen a turtle as your emblem, a symbol of punctuality, of perseverance, perhaps, but not really of the revolution. that's too bad. that is why i doubt, mr president, that the peoples of europe and the citizens of europe - which is a bit the same thing - recognize themselves in this constitution which is being imposed on them. we shall see who has the courage to call a referendum. i would like to add a short post-scriptum to the attention of the intergovernmental conference: 'do not give up strasbourg!'
- mr president of the convention, you once asked the convention a question which was both pertinent and impertinent, to which we never received an answer. when you presented the report of the working party on legal personality, you asked: 'but what exactly should be given legal personality? to a state or to an international organization? " it was a great question, but it was a little disturbing. the convention never responded, preferring to remain ambiguous. however, if it was possible to say at the beginning that the construction of europe was sui generis in nature, that it was an unidentified legal object, today, with the passage of the treaties and especially with the end of the convention, the object is becoming more and more identifiable. it is, in fact, a state, a central supranational decision-making authority with its unique institutional framework, its superior law to national constitutions, its decision-making procedure based on common law by majority vote and even, now, its constitution with its supreme constitutional court. perhaps some of its elements, in some respects, considered in isolation, may be part of an international organization. but when they are all brought together with this strength, this generality, this intensity, they obviously form the shape of a european state. i would therefore like to ask you, mr president, whether you think that this european superstate is really what our peoples want. those of you who quoted the polls earlier, you know the answer is "no". our peoples certainly want european cooperation, they even want more policies with transnational impact to be dealt with at european level. but at the same time they want their country to retain its freedom of decision, the freedom of choice of its national democracy, the only democracy in the full sense of the word to date. in these circumstances, mr president of the convention, do you not think that the european superstate is a very bad answer to a good question?
in writing. - a right of withdrawal recognized at the end of part i and 'constitutional' amendments to be ratified unanimously at the end of part iv, the 'european constitution' set two reasonable benchmarks in a text which, from the outset, however, went to the absurdity of a legal hold-up by stealing the name 'constitution' to make its intergovernmental nature be forgotten. with more than 400 articles, progress is being made in the following areas: a classification of legal acts into european laws, framework laws or delegated laws, a minister for foreign affairs, three presidents - of the european council, the council of ministers and the commission - and a whole orchestra of institutional instruments in which, if we cannot identify the leader, we can locate the big money of the european parliament, which is gaining in volume without gaining in political credibility. but while making a lot of noise with its institutional hardware, the european constitution fails to cover two of its major silences: on the one hand, the silence on the necessary protection of democracies crushed by the power of the media, from the empires of murdoch to that of berlusconi and, on the other hand, the silence on the protection of taxpayers against taxes that will be increasingly confiscatory.
, in writing. - mr giscard d'estaing stressed that the central point of the draft constitution drawn up by the convention was the recognition of the 'dual nature' of the european union, which becomes the emanation of both citizens and states. this special distinction implies that states are separate entities from the will of the citizens. it therefore prepares the way for the eventual challenge to the democratic legitimacy of the states and changes the nature of the union, which has hitherto been a union of states representing their peoples. a very perverse germ was thus introduced into the new "constitutional treaty". it is based on a mythical entity, the european citizen, who is not unlike the old proletariat, to whom one can lend whatever intentions one wishes. mr giscard d'estaing was right when he said that the citizens of europe were looking forward to a european constitution, a european foreign policy, a european foreign minister, etc. on this basis, any slip-up is possible, especially since the amnesiac barbarism characterizes this new man who is the european citizen, as evidenced by the refusal of the conventionalists to mention in their text the historical role played by christianity in the true constitution of europe.
in writing. - the sinking of the tricolor and the prestige have been a stark reminder of the urgency and need to make maritime safety a major issue, and therefore of the importance of ensuring a high level of training for seafarers on european ships, including seafarers from third countries. the possibility of bringing seafarers from third countries into the union is of real interest to the european fleet. of the approximately 140 000 seamen serving on ships flying the flag of a member state of the european union, about one third (i.e. 47 000) come from a third country. in addition, in many member states, shipowners have difficulty finding nationally trained staff. this proposal, which aims to replace the current procedure for the recognition of certificates of competency by the member state with a procedure for recognition at commission level, with the assistance of the european maritime safety agency, is therefore a major step forward in ensuring the highest possible level of safety. i shall pay particular attention to the amendments on seafarers' skills, access to training, the evaluation report and the fight against fraudulent practices.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this directive. i welcome this proposal. today, unfortunately, we are faced with a shortage of personnel in the european union, and particularly in france, for all maritime professions. we are therefore forced to use third country nationals. it is therefore necessary to ensure that these people have received quality training. this level of training has a very important impact on maritime safety. the shipwreck is not the only cause of the disasters we have experienced. human error, lack of experience and lack of communication between staff increase the risks at sea. in the face of these realities, it is necessary to harmonise the rules for the recognition of qualifications and to introduce the use of a single language on board ships. we must also think about the future. at a time when the european economy is stagnating and unemployment is no longer falling, the various professions in this sector need to be promoted, particularly among young europeans, to encourage vocations. this will enable our european companies to employ eu nationals who will be engaged in these maritime professions.
in writing. - recent events have reminded us of the importance of this issue and of the number and seriousness of the violence, hidden or not, suffered by children and women in all social circles. the causes of this violence are male violence against women and the unconscious and even morbid treatment of children by parents. hence the need for a programme that is largely funded and accompanied by a strengthening of preventive and repressive legislation in this area.
in writing. - as it aims to ensure the continuity of the current programme to combat violence against children, adolescents and women, which expires at the end of 2003, this second phase of the daphne programme must be able to be implemented without delay. however, the financial allocation envisaged by the commission does not allow the most efficient implementation of this programme. the allocated amount of eur 40 million seems to me to be insufficient if we really want to enable more non-governmental organisations to benefit from the programme and if we want to meet the needs of the new member states. to continue the programme and to be able to extend it to the new member states, it is therefore essential to have resources that are up to the challenge. a more appropriate legal basis than article 152 of the ec treaty also seems to me to be a desirable development in treating violence as a violation of the rights of the human person.
in writing. - european union law, when it exists, is abused by the member states who are supposed to enforce it. this is acknowledged in this report, but it is also worthwhile asking what legal bases would be needed to enforce this. the members of this union of states, forced to associate but competing with each other to defend their national bourgeoisie, apply community law only to the extent that it suits their large industrial and financial groups. the rapporteur cites the action of the court of justice of the european communities in favour of community law. but this court cannot prevent the law of the jungle from being the only law that prevails in this competitive society. then, at most, it will succeed in enforcing some rules on the smallest of the european powers, but it will lie down before the smaller ones, as it has always done.
in writing. - the report of the legal affairs committee is based on the principle that these proposals are not intended to 'directly lay down criminal rules or to achieve criminal harmonisation'. this is the right starting point and is the result of serious preparatory work and reflection by the legal affairs committee. the commission's opinion was based in particular on a hearing of criminal law experts who confirmed the major upheavals and difficulties that such harmonisation would create. unfortunately, the report's follow-up takes us in exactly the opposite direction, relying on the extensive interpretations of the court of justice, calling on the commission to lodge complaints in its capacity as guardian of the treaties and asking the intergovernmental conference to define a community criminal jurisdiction. for this reason, the members of the edd group, representing the interests of hunting, fishing, nature and traditions, voted against this report, which, in accordance with a technique often used in this house, ultimately requires us to do what we say we do not want to do.
in writing. - who can vote against a text full of such declarations of good intentions? yes, disabled people must be treated 'as human rights, not as charity'. yes, we must "facilitate the realisation of the aspirations of the disabled"! but the mere fact that we need to reaffirm such basic truths as that disabled people are human beings shows that this is far from the case in this inhuman society. and despite the title "towards a legally binding instrument (...) to protect the rights and dignity of disabled people", there is nothing binding in the text. how could it be otherwise? how, for example, can access to employment for disabled people be ensured when 30 million people in the european union are denied access to employment, whether disabled or not? how can the right to live independently and with dignity in society or the right to affordable housing be guaranteed? how can we ensure this, when all governments are cutting back on social benefits and the minimal allowances that are given just allow the disabled to eat as well as they can?
in writing. - i have always said that the full integration of the disabled person in our society is more than an imperative of justice and solidarity, it is a source of fantastic human wealth for our society and for each of us. it is so obvious that we should not need to legislate. experience shows that legislation and binding measures are needed. our parliament has therefore proposed categories of rights which should be included in the future convention. i agree with them and i support the request for a precise and tight timetable made to the commission in this respect.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this text without hesitation because, in europe and in the world, there is obviously an urgent need to develop an anti-discrimination policy for disabled people, a voluntarist policy reaffirming their rights to employment, to school and to all aspects of social life, including sexuality. it is necessary, however, to stress that such a concern is largely at odds with the current orientations of the european union and the main international economic organisations. these guidelines lead in practice to the dismantling of public services, their privatisation and the reduction of social protection and social budgets. the social integration of disabled people, including their occupational integration, is based on a logic of solidarity which is difficult to reconcile with that of profitability. the commitment to move beyond separate structures, which do very little to prepare disabled people for integration and autonomy, to enable full participation of disabled people in society and to combat prejudice comes at a price. it is a battle that is inevitably opposed to the voracity of private interests, hidden behind the high competitiveness, alpha and omega of dominant thinking.
- mr president, before speaking on iraq, i would like to pay tribute not only to the memory of mr vieira de mello but also to that of one of his collaborators, mr jean-sélim kanaan. mr kanaan had worked in the european parliament, as an assistant to pierre pradier, and for the commission, notably in burundi. as far as iraq is concerned, i believe there is a great danger. some say the united states should admit its mistakes. where does that get us? personally, i don't want to be right and tell the americans that they were wrong, because, at the time, there was a question that we didn't have an answer to: how to get rid of saddam hussein? if we were right to be against war, we were not proposing any alternative to get rid of saddam hussein. but mr patten is right in this respect: the iraqi people have the right to live in peace without saddam hussein. today, saddam hussein is no longer in power, but the iraqi people still do not live in peace. in these circumstances, the important thing is not whether or not we are satisfied with what the americans are doing, but to help them, as well as the british, to break out of their isolation. it's up to us to be the smart ones, whether we were right or wrong before. unfortunately, this is too expensive, which is why britain is now reviewing its position. this is a diabolical story, because it's more about money than morality. but that's life. even if the un passes a resolution tomorrow, if the us gives them command of the operation, they will not be able to bring peace to iraq without difficulty. the un is not god, nor are the europeans for that matter. how can we act in such a situation, where a society today completely broken has experienced such power? some say you have no right to occupy a country. i will answer that the allies had the right to occupy germany. if the united nations had decided that iraq should be occupied, it would have been legitimate. the problem is that the un has not made such a decision. sometimes, if you want to overthrow a dictatorship, you have to occupy a country. i would like the european union to make proposals today, for example to set up a conference for stability and peace in the region, including iran and other countries in the region, which would allow the united states and britain to slowly get back on the un path. indeed, by focusing the debate on the advisability of a un resolution, we are in a deadlock because, at the moment, neither side can overcome the divisions of yesterday. we must therefore work towards a solution by taking another route, that is to say, a conference for stability in the region, and then passing the baton to the un, which will ensure the democratic reconstruction of iraq. unfortunately, i do not believe that next year's elections will bring a solution to the problem of stability in this country.
- mr president, the prophets of doom, including myself, mrs frahm, and many others, when we discussed possible intervention, unfortunately seem to have been right for the moment. after the bombing of the un headquarters in baghdad and the attack on the shiite holy sites in najaf, the fragile hopes of a lull allowing the gradual legitimisation of the authorities set up by the coalition disappeared and, with them, the prospect of a more or less short-term transfer of responsibilities that today rest on this coalition. i do not believe that it will be enough to take saddam hussein, which is what is likely to happen, to end the chaos that the dictator on the run has every interest in maintaining but that many others with him and, if necessary, after him are determined to amplify further. i am thinking of course of the madmen of god, ready to die fighting the united states under the banner of al-qaeda or any other fundamentalist organization. i also think of our great neighbour iran, which cannot remain indifferent to the situation in iraq. i am thinking in particular of the iraqi people themselves, who rightly or wrongly - as many have said here - regard the occupation of their country as unacceptable, whatever the reasons for this may be. in this last area, which is essentially psychological, it seems to me that the international community, rightly desiring to put an end to the chaos as quickly as possible, has no other recourse than to legitimize its action by voting a new security council resolution, which entrusts the united nations with the task of putting the country back into order and preparing the necessary transitions towards a legitimate iraqi government. i understand that this is your objective, mr president-in-office of the council, and i am pleased that the latest known american proposals seem to be moving in this direction.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, history often takes time to judge the relevance and effectiveness of a political decision. in this case, it hardly needs time to judge the decision taken by president bush and his cronies, the british prime minister, to destroy iraq, since that was the aim. in fact, history will record that this sad affair was based on a double lie. i won't go into the first lie, because it's been raised many times. it is the famous excuse that you have to destroy a country to get rid of weapons of mass destruction. we said there was no such thing, the inspectors said there was, and it was verified. the second lie, just as serious and even more so, should be a cause for concern. did president bush and tony blair really want to eradicate islamism or, on the contrary, did they not want to encourage and install it in iraq? as i said in this forum, a year ago iraq was the only arab country that was absolutely free of any trace of islamic fundamentalism. today he's settled there, playing like a child in a playground. will the empire continue to play with islamic fundamentalism for long and will it continue to receive support from those who support it unconditionally? alas, three times alas. there are many members of the european parliament who have supported this policy in this house. i regret it on behalf of europe, because in the end they have only encouraged a sad politics of doodling.
- you will have noticed, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that the french political authorities have been constantly talking about sovereignty and independence these days, but the federalist militants are reassured that this is not about france, it is about iraq. an iraq where the initial strategic mistake that was made is mechanically producing its effects. the prolongation of the military occupation regime is turning the country into a favourite theatre of operations for terrorists, even succeeding in creating another unlikely coalition of returning exiled islamists, jihadists of all stripes and survivors of the baath apparatus. it doesn't take a geopolitical genius to understand that as long as there is foreign military occupation, there will also be insecurity. the solution is therefore not to be sought in the direction of an enlargement of the coalition or a un cover given to the coalition. we see what it produces. if we want to stop the growth of terrorism in iraq, there is no other way but to return sovereignty to the iraqis. it is urgently necessary to establish a timetable for a political transition led by the iraqis themselves with the assistance, mr president, of the entire international community.
- ladies and gentlemen, when one studies carefully a resolution on human rights which has no less than 56 recitals and 197 paragraphs, after having examined 284 amendments in committee, one gets mixed and contrasting impressions. i will mention a few: does the report make sense, is it useful, are the points raised well-ordered, are they always checked, what is the proportion of errors, the choices of news agencies and the dominant media? not to mention political preferences. what answer can i give to those who say that the underlying ideology is that of the rich and powerful countries, which judge others according to their interests and criteria, without always having the same rigor at home. the attitude of the united states in this area provides us with a more than caricature illustration: treatment of its prisoners, refusal of the icc, preventive war, death penalty, etc. i would like to end with a list which is not exhaustive and which anyone could add to. thus, as regards utility and overall validity, it is up to each individual to make his own choices. personally, despite my many doubts, i nevertheless conclude that such a report is useful and i congratulate my colleague mr van den bos on it. this principle has been stated, and we must then go into detail to measure and weigh the shortcomings and excesses which are wrongly included and those which are also wrongly not. with my colleague pernille frahm we tabled nine amendments in committee, seven of which were voted on, and of the 27 amendments tabled in plenary, eight were tabled by members of my group. this shows our interest and therefore our feeling that this report is useful. finally, it will be seen that no one, i mean none of us, will agree with everything that has been voted. personally, i could list all the points that bother me, or even that i disagree with. however, without denying the negative, the positive seems to me to prevail and i am prepared to vote for this report, if it is not distorted by some votes. i am still concerned about the desire of some to substitute religious freedom for freedom of conscience and some other fears arising from certain political ties. other colleagues will make different choices than i, including in my group, it is democratic. the important thing remains - and i say this emphatically - the need to defend human rights, all human rights, including economic and social rights, everywhere in the world. yes, i insist, in all countries, without exception!
- mr president, this report is intended to suggest that the european union has a major role to play in the field of human rights worldwide. the fact that in the rich countries of western europe and the united states, personal rights and freedoms are somewhat better protected than in the poor majority of the world is a fact, provided that we do not look too closely at it. if we turn a blind eye to the hunting of immigrants, so-called "undocumented", the deportation charters, the laws against the poor, we forget that the right to adequate housing is denied to many. but let us not forget that in a country like france, freedom of expression stops at the factory gates, and the distribution of a political leaflet inside can be grounds for dismissal. it is important to note that in some eu countries women are denied basic rights, such as the choice to have a child or not. the right to work and to a decent wage is not recognized as a fundamental right and is not applied. while human rights are only guaranteed in rich countries because they are denied to the poor of the world, it is precisely the rich countries, so proud of their human rights, that maintain in poor countries many infectious regimes based on oppression and, above all, on unlimited misery.
i suggest. mr president, i should like to give a very brief reply to mr alavanos, who has tried to present a situation of which the council is not aware. i can assure you that we will do our own checks within the council's powers. i reserve the right to give the honourable member a reply, possibly in writing.
commission. i only need make one final, general remark. i sensed quite a lot of frustration in many of the contributions reflecting the lack of clear decisions with binding effect and the lack of effective instruments to enforce respect of human rights in the world. some of it almost had an air of extra-territoriality, even coming close to unilateralist language. we have to take care and stay faithful to other values that are important for our self-esteem and our project. we have to remain multilateralist. and when addressing these difficult issues no short-cut is possible. when the poor from the third world look at us in europe – even if they do not understand the figures, this illustrates their image of us – they see that every cow in europe gets two euro per day in subsidy. over there, 1.2 billion people live on less than one dollar a day. more than half of the population in the world gets less than two dollars per day. this is not to move away from the core theme of this debate, but when we talk about perceptions and how this world sees itself, we have to keep it in mind. everybody talks about the international society. we do not have one. we are trying to create one. this is where we have a good case for being europeans at this time. we have to combine that with the issues we discuss here.
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the following shall be considered as a written declaration:
in writing. - the report rightly denounces the human rights situation in many countries. it is regrettable, however, that the countries of the maghreb, as well as israel, are curiously absent. however, 2002 marked a worrying turn in the repressive policies in these countries, particularly with regard to freedom of expression: detentions and prosecutions of the leaders of the kabyle citizens' movement in algeria and now attacks on press freedom; imprisonment of a cyber-journalist in tunisia; censorship and prosecution of the journalist ali lmrabet in morocco and attacks on western sahara by the moroccan authorities. in the west bank, the construction of the wall of shame leads to multiple violations of the right to movement, the right to land for the palestinian population; he is a danger to human rights and to peace. finally, in many countries, the so-called fight against terrorism is used as a pretext for security and law enforcement. you have to resist it. moreover, we must not allow the questioning of international law, dangerously trivialised by american power, to lead to a world in which economic and political interests will forever take precedence over the rights of individuals and peoples.
- the next item is the report (a5-0281/2003) by mr sylla, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2002) [2002/2013 (ini) ].
the rapporteur. - mr president, first of all, i am honoured to present to you the annual report on the situation of fundamental rights. it is a synthesis of the fundamental values on which the european union is founded. this synthesis is recognised and appears in part ii of the text of the draft constitution drawn up by the convention. i believe that under article 7 of the treaty on european union, the european institutions can monitor, each in accordance with its own area of competence, the strict observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms by the member states. i hope that, as a result of this vote, the legally binding nature of the charter, once it has been implemented, will allow direct and individual referral to the court of justice and the european union by european citizens. i say this because i, for my part, wanted to involve citizens in the drafting of this charter. i have thus associated two schools, one german and one french, with the first hearing, and they have been following the work for six months now. i then wanted to bring together all the major non-governmental organisations - amnesty international, human rights watch, the international federation for human rights - but also representatives of national parliaments, including those of the candidate countries. i think this has enabled me to add to the information and to verify it on my own travels. too much information, far from being a handicap, can be enriching. it is also in this sense that i wanted the report to highlight the strong points. first of all, i wanted to reflect on one of the biggest rifts that europe has experienced since the fall of the berlin wall, namely the impact of 9/11, both within and outside the union. i also had the opportunity to go on a three-week study trip to the united states. as i traveled through this country, i saw how many negative effects of 9/11 still remain. people are afraid and, most importantly, everyone recognizes that an unprecedented wave of islamophobia is taking place: it is their honor to recognize it. churches, judges, citizens, ngos have even been protecting muslims. i think that from this point of view we should also learn a lesson. why should this be a lesson for us? because, in my opinion, too often we forget the primary objective of terrorists: to destabilize the rule of law. but whenever we do something that is not in the direction of strengthening the rule of law, somewhere we are participating in the terrorist objective which is precisely to destabilize the rule of law. secondly, it is important to bear in mind, in the context of defending the first fundamental right, the right to life, which constitutes the first chapter of the charter of fundamental rights, the need for all of us to remain united in the fight against terrorism. i think that is the least of it, especially since the terrorists strike blindly. an anecdote came to mind while working on this report. in 1994, i had the good fortune to be received by nelson mandela, who was about to take power in south africa. just as he was about to take power, a report was released that listed the anc as a terrorist organization. it should also be remembered that the german occupation did not consider the resistance fighters as terrorists. the un has identified more than 142 definitions of terrorism. somewhere in there, you want to say, "to each his own". the fact remains, mr president, that terrorism today is, i believe, a real source of conflict in all its forms and can lead societies to become frivolous, to close in on themselves. it is therefore our responsibility to ensure that, within the framework we have, solutions are found as quickly as possible. i am thinking in particular of the concern that citizens, european nationals, are now being held in what i would call the utmost secrecy in cuba because they are suspected of having committed terrorist acts. so fighting terrorism is also helping to maintain the rule of law. the second thing that concerned me was the situation in prison. i think it is particularly shocking, at the beginning of the millennium, to see what is happening in the prisons of the european union, where the situation is far from satisfactory. there is an almost universal prison overcrowding. in france alone, 60,000 prisoners for 50,000 places. another concern is the threats to freedom of expression. i am thinking in particular of the economic mega-groups and the case of italy. finally, equality. in this context, it is urgent that more european political parties sign the charter of european political parties for a non-racial and non-racist society, adopted in 1998. in addition, the transposition by the member states of the directives adopted by the council on combating discrimination of all kinds at the workplace is often incomplete or non-existent. other topics, such as solidarity, civil and social rights, equality between men and women, equality in the workplace, seem to me to overlap with european citizenship and justice. there is still too much progress to be made. i did not want to point the finger at any particular country. i simply wanted to bring together the best of each of our countries.
- mr president, in addition to congratulating mr sylla on his work, i should like to make two comments on the method which i think should be used in this report. firstly, i would like to point out that this is the third report after an extremely important reform, which our parliament wants, which is actually to read the situation of fundamental rights in the union in the light of the charter, which brings with it a number of obligations. we have the means - a network of experts who produce a report, normally a working group - but the keyword is the whole charter and nothing but the charter. this naturally obliges the rapporteur and all those who would like this report to be adopted very widely to ensure that it does not become a pretext for militancy, that it does not become an opportunity to put forward personal opinions, or that it does not serve as a fodder for the action of lobbies that have nothing to do with it. not just the charter, but the whole charter! i think this principle should be reaffirmed. my second point concerns countries. this report is in two parts because that is the european union's regulation. in reality the report forms a whole and therefore the resolution should contain only the substance of the report and only highlight what parliament would like public opinion to take into account. this would avoid nationalistic reflexes on the part of a number of our colleagues who cannot bear to see their country mentioned. i think that, from this point of view too, we would be better off keeping only the important points in the resolution, which actually correspond to why parliament has chosen to make this report. it has chosen to do so as the guardian of public freedoms and to be able to answer the question: has the charter of fundamental rights as it is written, and not as it would like to be written, been respected, during the year under review, in the territory of the union? this is the subject of the report. it is very important not to forget these questions of method if we want this report to be adopted with the widest possible political support.
- mr president, allow me to welcome this report, which is an instructive instrument in more than one way: an excellent compilation of existing legislation, a good follow-up of the evolution of legislation and in particular of the effects of 11 september, and unavoidable proof that the perception of danger has changed the terms of the balance between freedom and security, that the multiplication of emergency laws has severely limited and disregarded our fundamental rights. with the adoption of european provisions such as the framework decisions on terrorism and the european arrest warrant, or the one on the freezing of the assets of certain entities or individuals considered to be terrorists, the european union is supporting the proliferation of anti-terrorism and repressive legislation adopted by the member states. however, while the imperative of combating terrorism should not be an excuse for the introduction of discriminatory and arbitrary legislation, the absence of a clear and precise definition of the terrorist fraction in european legislation now allows the implicit criminalisation of social movements linked to freedom of expression and freedom of association. the mere suspicion can lead to detention. whole populations already vulnerable have become more so since 11 september: third country nationals, asylum seekers, roma, muslims. in disregard of fundamental rights and public freedoms, these populations are often treated as a threat or danger to the security of the state and 9/11 has a good back. it allows the real issues facing society to be avoided: integration, xenophobia, immigration and asylum policy. the fight against terrorism is now used as a pretext for the fight against illegal immigration. the association agreements with algeria, for example, are a good illustration of this amalgamation of terrorism and immigration. the same applies to readmission agreements for undocumented persons returned to third countries. the list of violations committed within the european union by states and institutions is long: xenophobia, double punishment, arbitrary detention, discrimination in employment, housing, and the crime of convenience. but human rights have no borders, so let's be frank, let's start by sweeping in front of our door. let us stop making human rights a bargaining chip with third countries; the aim of the european union is to promote peace, the values of freedom, justice and solidarity and the well-being of these peoples. so let us give ourselves the means to finally ensure that human rights are respected within the european union for all residents, whatever their nationality. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, i would first of all like to underline the importance of this report and, contrary to some of my colleagues who have just spoken, to say how courageous it is to point to countries which are guilty of breaches of the most basic rights. unfortunately, mr sylla's report is full of such examples, and we cannot, as members of the european parliament, simply denounce violations of fundamental rights in third countries without pointing out those committed in our own countries. it's our honor. the conclusions of this report are also of crucial importance in relation to other challenges we face. the current crisis and the many economic redundancies it has caused require us to be extremely vigilant in respecting social rights. in this connection, we are unfortunately faced with the dismantling of an assembly line in france, more precisely in the somme. recent events, particularly in france but also in other european countries, also show us that freedom of the press is often violated - this was the case during the heatwave. on a completely different note, i would like to reiterate, as has been done before me, that if the fight against terrorism is legitimate, it must not be carried out in violation of the most basic rights. in conclusion, mr president, since the annual report on fundamental rights in the european union is the fourth of its kind, i would like to ask the same question as my colleague, mrs swiebel: what is the situation with regard to these rights, and what changes has this brought about?
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would simply like to say that we can have a debate without stigmatising people, without insulting them, without humiliating them. i believe that the least we can do is to be tolerant, and if we cannot tolerate, we can at least respect. but that's too much to ask of the person concerned. so i won't send back the bird names and the insults, i think she's the one who doesn't deserve to sit in this chamber.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i should like to clarify one point: i am indeed responsible for this report, but i would point out that it was adopted in committee by 24 votes to 17. it has also been the subject of a number of amendments, and i discussed them again this morning with the chairman of my committee. therefore, the authorship of all the proposals and amendments cannot be attributed to me. i think we should be careful. there are also debates, and some points are not settled. that doesn't mean i don't think about it. the committee of the regions is also concerned about the lack of transparency in the way the commission is handling the budget. i simply wanted to highlight the points that i felt were important, namely, in particular, the aftermath of the attacks of 11 september 2001, prisons and discrimination. then various proposals were made, none of which i have made. as for the adoption of children by homosexual couples, i am neither for nor against, the issue is simply not settled.
- i would like, first of all, to stress the importance and the need to draw up such a report regularly in order to continually improve the situation of the fundamental rights of european citizens. developing strategies to promote equal access for all to fundamental rights such as education, healthcare, culture, as well as sustainable employment and housing remains essential. europe is not just a geographical and historical reality with shifting borders. it is, above all, a community of men cemented by a community of values and shaped over time by a political, economic and spiritual history. i do not think that this report reflects and defends some of the values of our european civilization. it seems to me that imposing a particular moral conception on the european union as a whole is contrary to the principle of respect for diversity, which is at the very heart of the european construction and is enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. local cultures and different ways of life should not be destabilised. the histories and sensibilities of each of our countries, which have been built up over a number of varied and innumerable experiences, are of course different. we must respect them, because our cultural and religious specificities enrich us. (abbreviated written declaration pursuant to article 120 (7) of the regulation)
- mr president, we have just seen the presentation of two excellent reports by paul lannoye and luisa morgantini, and we fully support them. we are fortunate to adopt them before the opening of the wto ministerial conference in cancun, and i hope that commissioner lamy, who will be working there next week, will be obliged to draw inspiration from them in the context of his negotiating mandate, particularly on the vital issue of non-privatisation of water. my friend paul lannoye will not be offended if i emphasize the report by luisa morgantini. the commission wants to help developing countries to take advantage of trade. but do the wto rules allow it? i am not sure, given the current disagreements between developing and western countries on the singapore issue, for example, that the european union is in a better position to support the position of the southern countries, when it has its own interests to defend. the agricultural and fisheries sectors are clear examples of this. helping developing countries to benefit from trade means first changing trade rules to make them more favourable to developing countries. encouraged and then confined to their role as exporters of raw materials with low added value, the countries of the south are suffering the full effects of falling commodity prices and difficult access to the markets of the countries of the north. the wto is not meant to regulate markets, but to liberalize trade. the common market organizations for coffee and cotton and the systems for stabilizing the prices of raw materials have now disappeared. and besides, is helping countries really helping people? do the supposed benefits of trade really reach the poorest, or are they stuck at the top of the state? promoting fair trade remains the only viable long-term strategy today. on the one hand, we must pay the producers of the south a fair price for their basic products; on the other hand, we must urgently open our markets to imports from developing countries and abandon the subsidies for our farmers. in this respect, the cancun conference could be a source of hope. i hope they won't be disappointed. only by transforming and diversifying their production can developing countries really gain autonomy and play a leading role in world trade. this is the objective which the commission must strive towards and the cancun conference must focus on. helping developing countries to develop their trade is first and foremost helping people in those countries to try to live better. can trade be a way to live better? perhaps, but he's certainly not the only one.
- mr president, we can only agree with the report's critical aspects, which is why we will vote for it, despite the impotence it expresses. what is this society where almost a third of humanity does not even have access to this basic good of drinking water? millions of people in poor countries die each year, if not from thirst, then at least from a host of diseases spread by contaminated water. is it because providing clean water to everyone on the planet poses insurmountable technical problems? no, i'm not going. everybody knows it's just a question of money. it is also common knowledge that 21st century society has accumulated more than enough material and financial resources to be able to do this. but water itself and its distribution have become a colossal source of profit for multinational trusts. these trusts (vivendi, ex-generale des eaux, suez, bouygues) have a free hand to raise the price of water while the international institutions vote resolutions and prepare the ground for them by systematically breaking the public water services of poor countries. their profit is the dirty money, the blood-soiled money of millions of people who have died of dysentery, cholera, typhus, malaria and bilharzia. in ten years, the number of people without access to safe drinking water has risen from 1.2 billion to 1.7 billion. it is a crime against humanity and an expression of the deadly harmfulness of the present economic organization, which plunges part of humanity into barbarism.
- mr president, with regard to the lannoye report on water, i would like to stress two points. as we will be in cancun next week for the wto conference, i will first mention the link with the general agreement on trade in services. the european union should clarify its position. if we consider - and this is rather the view you have defended, commissioner - that water is a public good, then we must ensure that the public authorities retain control, in each country, of the distribution of water. of course, public-private partnerships can be used for funding. but you yourself have drawn a comparison, which is rather bold, i must say, with what is vital for other countries: missile defence, for example, for the united states. no one could imagine proposing to the us that its missile defence should be placed under the authority of the wto dispute settlement body with rules such as national treatment, the most favoured nation rule, the obligation to award a contract to a company from any other wto country if it responds to a public tender in this vital area. in the field of water, if we follow your comparison, we need burkina faso, for example, so that the developing countries can, even if they have recourse to investors, to multinationals, really keep control of the conditions under which such investors will intervene. i therefore believe that in the context of the gats - and i hope that the commissioner responsible for development will press on with these discussions, and that they will not be purely a matter of trade policy - we must not pressure these countries to liberalize public services, especially water, in exchange for what we will give them in the context of market access, for example in agriculture. as far as financing is concerned, a european fund is certainly needed, but i agree with mr lannoye's remarks. as with the european structural funds, we know that it is not enough to make a market to create a community. sometimes it is necessary to support the recovery of development delays, which makes public financing essential. a european fund is needed. we should even have a global water fund, just like a unaids global fund for treating people with aids. private funding alone will not be enough to achieve this, and we cannot simply do engineering. more public contributions will also be needed. as regards mrs morgantini's report on the link between trade and development, i would say that while everyone agrees that trade can contribute to development, it is not enough to open borders, as has been suggested by some speakers, including mr de clercq, to automatically have the key to development. diversification of the economy is essential. we should be more inspired by what we have done ourselves. for a while we must accept, pragmatically, gradually and through sectoral aid, that the countries of the south can protect their own economies. encouraging them to create sufficiently large markets is in principle the objective of regional integration. but we must not adopt a systematic, dogmatic, general approach to liberalization, because that would only worsen the deterioration of the terms of trade, which mrs kinnock mentioned. it is true that these countries will export in greater quantities, and mr deva is right, their agricultural products must have better access to the eu market and we must reduce our subsidies to limit the distortive effects. but they will still export products that will have less and less value on the world market. these countries must be able to export diversified, more sophisticated, industrialized products. we should therefore review trade policy towards developing countries, giving priority to the visions and objectives of development policy and those of the commissioner responsible for development.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the description of the vicious, hellish and deadly circle which denies the underdeveloped countries any real right to the health of the greatest number, which then aggravates their underdevelopment even further, is the basis of the commission's communication and of mr bowis' report, as it was also the basis of my report on the fight against aids, malaria and tuberculosis through the financing of clinical trials, adopted a few months ago. i therefore wholeheartedly support the rapporteur and his proposals and those of the committee on development and cooperation. the financial contributions foreseen, particularly in the water sector, must be increased. the lack of clean water - several colleagues have said - causes three million deaths worldwide every year. large vaccination campaigns are still needed. health prevention must be strengthened. medicines must be available and treatment adapted to developing countries, including palliative care, the provision of painkillers and the fight against the trafficking of counterfeit medicines. by having the european parliament adopt a €600 million research programme on aids, malaria and tuberculosis under article 169 in march 2003, i had already, after the sixth eprf, helped to take concrete action in this direction. i take this opportunity to inform my colleagues this evening of the implementation of this programme after its final adoption on 16 june. commissioner busquin has just returned from africa, where he saw firsthand the interest of researchers from these countries after the establishment of the ad hoc management structures. progress has already been made in recent years, often at the instigation of our parliament, in close partnership with the european commission. it also, if not above all, shows the dramatic nature of the situation in the underdeveloped countries, and therefore the distance to be covered, and the enormous efforts to be made in terms of imagination, partnership and budget. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate my support for the proposals of the committee on development, my full support for our rapporteur, my personal commitment to these areas, and that of my group, the gue/ngl, and i would urge the commission, and above all the council, to step up the pace of european engagement if we are to avoid a future deterioration of the situation in the developing countries, which is far from improving.
- mr president, up to now we have focused on the fight against communicable diseases, in particular hiv/aids, tuberculosis and malaria. we have repeatedly called for this scope to be extended to other diseases explicitly linked to poverty, in particular poor hygiene and environmental conditions. i therefore welcome the report by mr bowis, which takes health in its broadest sense and takes account of the health implications of food, environmental and educational policies. preventing diseases requires improving the living conditions of the people of the south, i.e. through a coherent and integrated development strategy. prevention is a necessary strategy, but it is a long-term one. the shortest possible time, patients must be provided with access to health care and medicines. these still need to be available. it is true that in most countries in the south, health systems are weak, but privatising the sector will not solve anything. only public services can ensure free and universal health care. as such, health must be kept out of the gats, and i am glad that this report recalls this basic principle. i of course support the amendment calling for the implementation of the doha declaration on medicines, especially as the agreement which the trips council has just reached is supposed to allow for its entry into force. while welcoming the entry into force of this agreement, we must also acknowledge that its complexity raises questions about its applicability. countries without production capacity are thus subject to a dual system of compulsory licences and constraints which can often be costly. if health is truly a priority of the european union's development policy, then its member states must make a strong commitment to granting the compulsory licences needed by developing countries to protect their public health. we must, as members of parliament, keep up the pressure together so that this communication does not remain a dead letter.
- mr president, mr howitt's report opens up some interesting possibilities. citizen participation in cooperation with developing countries is a central concern of ours. this communication must be the basis for genuine collaboration with non-state actors. but who are these non-state actors? who are these privileged partners? are they partners in crime? we believe that participation must involve a plurality of actors, including the partners from the south, and prevent the marginalisation of the poorest countries. a genuine mechanism should therefore be put in place to optimise the representation of participants. this communication must not be used by the commission and the governments of developing countries to justify their action by exploiting non-state actors. the people of the south must themselves democratically appoint their representatives and organise themselves collectively in the form of associations, unions or local communities. this is the process we must support by providing the structural support necessary to guarantee the independence of non-state actors, which is essential for dialogue and participation of all sections of the population. our european companies have a responsibility by no longer prohibiting, but on the contrary encouraging, the trade union and associative organisation of workers and local populations. the recognition of civil society is only effective in the text of the cotonou agreement. we must still get out of the text and put it into practice. when the ala regulation is revised, it is essential to include this dimension in our cooperation with latin american and asian countries, which would also allow funds to be allocated to non-state actors in these countries. involving non-state actors in their governments' development strategy is essential to guarantee pluralism, freedom of expression and democracy, which serve the european union's missions in the world. we therefore welcome this report by mr howitt. this is an important avenue that is opening up and we must not fail to explore it.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr ebner, on his report on the promotion of regional and minority languages, which is in harmony with the values defended by our group, in particular those of rural life. preserving and promoting these languages is essential. they are the legacy of our past, they cement peoples and territories and give many regions across europe their specificity and their character, as here in alsace, or in catalonia - northern catalonia - where i come from. mr vallvé, we are the expression of geographical diversity for the same so-called minority language. however, i wonder about the means of achieving this objective and, in particular, about the need for a european agency for linguistic diversity and language learning. how will it act concretely on the ground to promote this learning? would it not be better to act, within the framework of subsidiarity, at national level, closer to the local level? this would make it possible to act in accordance with the cultural traditions and administrative and constitutional organisation of each state, by encouraging them to become involved, first, in the learning of regional and minority languages from kindergarten onwards and, secondly, in the organisation of cultural events such as twinning operations and school exchanges, which would be conducive to a return to the identity and history of the peoples. let us not deprive the member states of their power of action in the field of training and culture! amendment no 5 seems to me to be in the right direction, because it encourages the continued support of minority and regional languages in a context of political neutrality and independently of any financial considerations of a commercial nature. it is also necessary to provide a legal basis for these actions, in order to get out of the impasse generated by the judgment of the court of justice of the european communities and to allow the use of european funds. as a member of the disabled people's intergroup, i welcome the reference to sign languages, which, according to the council of europe, are used by more than 3 million of our fellow citizens. perhaps more emphasis could have been placed on these languages as their users face the same problems on a daily basis as other people who use the languages targeted by this report. it is imperative that all the members of the union ratify the council of europe's european charter for regional or minority languages. after 2001, the european year of languages, i hope that the excellent links we have with the council of europe will be further strengthened, in particular with the charter secretariat. this seems to me to be a pragmatic and effective way of encouraging and developing the use of our regional languages.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr ebner's report has the merit of emphasizing the value of regional languages as constituent elements of our heritage and cultural wealth. i regret, however, that the report did not set out to define its subject-matter and that it left that task to the commission, which is asked in paragraph 2 to establish criteria on the basis of scientific evidence. i think that our role as legislators is precisely to define these criteria. we would have been led to distinguish, no doubt, between regional languages and minority languages. minority languages can be national, official languages in a member state, as in the example given by the rapporteur - german-speaking populations in upper tyrol or south tyrol. if these populations speak german, it is more questionable to consider german as a regional language in alsace because the alsatian dialect, indisputably germanic, differs significantly from it. what is the content of the regional languages? should we consider occitan, for example, in the south of france, or its differentiated components such as provençal or gascon, as such? but above all, we must not forget that many of our national languages are themselves endangered. the fact that the european parliament itself provides its own delegations travelling abroad with an interpretation service in english only, as was recently the case for the delegation to japan, leads me to believe that we are on a dangerous track. my own language, french, is unfortunately losing ground every day as a language of international communication, but others are also threatened in their existence. i am thinking of the irish gaelic and the baltic languages which narrowly escaped russification. the development of regional languages, of course, and that is my conclusion, mr president, but let us be careful not to damage or weaken our national languages. let us beware of any artificial reconstruction of abstract languages that are far removed from regional realities. we must not set up a system of authority and constraint. it is on this triple condition that regional languages will contribute to our cultural wealth.
- the next item is the report (a5-0251/2003) by mr perry, on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, on 'television without frontiers' (2003/2033 (ini)).
- mr president, i would first like to congratulate our colleague, mr roy perry, on the quality of the work he has done on an essential and, moreover, extremely sensitive subject. it's true he's used to difficult cases. we are all aware of the real cultural and economic challenges posed by the 'television without frontiers' directive for each of the member states of the union and the candidate countries. we therefore support the reasonable position of the european commission, which rightly sought to obtain the opinion of each member state before any decision to review. the directive may need to be improved from time to time to take account of technological developments, but care must be taken to ensure that these adjustments are not made in a hurried manner. if we look objectively at the situation on the audiovisual market, we can see that national markets are gradually adapting to new technologies. recent technological developments have not really changed the audiovisual landscape, which remains largely dominated by traditional television. any future development of the directive must in no way lead to a change in its content. a revision calling into question the cultural objectives on which all the member states had reached agreement, under the pretext of extending the scope of the directive to all broadcasting media, would in reality amount to a complete change in the original objectives of the directive, namely the defence and promotion of cultural diversity. the essential provisions of this directive must not be called into question. the promotion, circulation and dissemination of european works within europe, the production and dissemination of works by independent producers, the existence of television broadcasting quotas, the guarantee of protection for minors, measures against excessive advertising - all these principles must continue to be the basis of community audiovisual policy. the 'television without frontiers' directive is a legal instrument which has proved its worth and is now being applied satisfactorily. the revision of the directive will only be justified if it brings about real improvements in a few areas, such as the worrying issue of media concentration, which obviously undermines pluralism. this directive must remain an effective tool for the promotion of cultural diversity and not become a legal instrument allowing exclusively the promotion of commercial channels where we would see, for example, advertising in continuous transmission in defiance of the works broadcast. beyond economic and financial issues, which are of course essential, there is simply the question of our cultures, our identities and the values we believe in.
- thank you, mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. this is a difficult and evolving case. we can thank mr perry for the work he has done and at the same time not know whether or not to revise this directive. this has been made clear by both the professionals and the commission. this series of articles deals with the problem of defining and understanding the transport of images, the evolution and acceleration of which we do not currently control. what concerns me is the lack of a definition of a "work". the 'television without frontiers' directive gives a negative definition. we know what it's not. it is not information, it is not advertising, it is not this, it is not that. it's produced by x or manufactured by y. i would like to know what it is - and i think some professionals would like to know what it is. this may help to settle the debate on reality tv in france and other european countries. the problem is to define the margin of the audiovisual work. there are not only works that are very easy to define like documentaries or films. i don't know how to define reality tv. this is a serious concern. the second point that i think this debate raises is the circulation of works. the circulation of works and artists - as i had stressed in the report on the living spectacle - is a recurring problem in the cultural field. in the context of television without frontiers, it is amplified by concentration and non-national character. how can we get the non-national works into each of our countries? we shall have to decide on this fundamental question. mr perry, you have paid a great deal of attention in your report to the question of media concentration, which can prevent the circulation of non-national works. i am very pleased that you have stressed this point, which i think is essential and which we must also consider very seriously.
- mr president, the fundamental problem which is currently arising in the audiovisual debate is that we dare not define the quality we want to defend. when we talk about european works, for example, we include talk shows which are completely ridiculous, on the pretext that they are european productions. until we have the courage to define - and geneviève fraisse is right - what a work is, that is, what we want to defend, our television will not be able to defend european production and european works in europe, for lack of the appropriate instruments. second, with regard to concentration, the problem is very simple. if we do not define what we cannot accept democratically in europe, we shall have an increasing concentration and domination of non-european forces in the market. for these two reasons, i believe that the european union must have the courage to define what a work is and what the boundary, in a democracy, should be between political power and the power of the media.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place at 12 noon. common positions of the council: see minutes.
- the next item is the report (a5-0276/2003) by mrs zorba, on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, on the cultural industries (com (2002) 2127 final).
commission. - mr president, i should first like to thank mrs zorba for her excellent report. it is timely to underline the importance of the phenomenon of european cultural industries not only from an economic point of view - as has been said - but also because of the potential they represent for cultural diversity in europe. it is a pity that we do not always realise the economic weight of the european cultural industries. i'm talking about the media, the music, the publishing. a 2001 study of the employment potential of the sector estimated that 4.8 million people were employed in the broadest sense of the creative industries, representing 3.1% of the eu. the european audiovisual sector alone directly employs over one million people. thus, beyond their contribution to diversity, cultural industries make a large contribution to the economy. of course, they play an obvious social and cultural role, because they are different industries. they're related to creation. it is not a question of producing and selling products like any other but cultural goods. these goods are the vectors of an identity, they are vectors of reference. so, in relation to the cultural industries, the normal industrial policy cannot play the same role, because it is inadequate. we have to go further. cultural diversity presupposes a strong and diversified industrial fabric guaranteeing the pluralism of the cultural offer in a globalised market. this phenomenon alone shows the importance that must be attached to this sector of activity which concerns our identities. i would like to highlight a few key actions to show you that europe is taking care of this sector not only in the context of cultural programmes but also far beyond. you all know about the media programme and the work we do for film. but did you know, for example, that in the culture 2000 programme, support for publishing houses to encourage literary translation has supported 1 300 translations in recent years? did you know that the structural funds are extremely committed to the development of the cultural industry? in the swedish town of hultsfred, for example, the erdf has co-financed projects to develop the music industry. since then, it has become the rock capital of sweden! as you can see, european aid can lead to a real concerted and concentrated development of the cultural industries. in your report you are asking for a communication on the structural funds and culture, a communication which will highlight this type of action. i should also like to point out that since 2002 we have been developing experimental actions to support the music and book industries. for example, we are planning to develop the export of european music beyond our continent. you can see, ladies and gentlemen, that these cultural industries are supported only by programmes and actions of the european union. i would add that we will soon have a unique opportunity to strengthen this action. that will be when we discuss the extension of the media and culture programmes and the new generation of our programmes. to this end, very systematic action will have to be taken, with the help of parliament, so that the creativity of this sector promotes economic and cultural diversity and thus our european roots.
- mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mrs zorba on her very interesting initiative of devoting a report to the cultural industries. indeed, we are now seeing the emergence of cultural industries which have an increasingly important economic dimension and at the same time play a vital role in europe's cultural diversity and identity. one of the problems raised by this report is the complete absence of a precise definition of cultural industries and of any industrial strategy for europe in this field. the european commission must study these questions and make proposals, perhaps through the green paper. in the future, support for cultural industries in regional and urban economic development projects should be strengthened, through the structural funds, but also by encouraging private-public partnerships. similarly, the european union will have to put in place measures to support smes and the self-employed, who play an important role in the fields of artistic creation and production. finally, i would like to stress the importance of the printed press, and in particular the regional daily printed press. it is the best guarantee of linguistic and cultural diversity and the one that is largely forgotten in the cultural policies of the union. it is essential that the commission, in the course of drawing up its green paper, finally make proposals for active support for this sector, which is also essential for pluralism. in the same spirit, the commission will have to propose specific measures to combat media concentration. in conclusion, i believe it is time to mobilise our efforts so that the draft unesco convention on cultural diversity can be launched soon. more than ever, we need to promote a european cultural spirit to foster creativity and to make the cultural diversity live without which europe could neither exist nor shine abroad.
- thank you, mrs. kratsa-tsagaropoulou. - i'm not sure what to say. on behalf of the session department, i would like to apologize for the commotion you have caused. the debate on the cultural package this morning is closed. as culture is about listening to others, i can assure you that sometimes we are not always very correct. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
the rapporteur, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, would like to remind a number of colleagues who have asked for no less than five or six passages to be deleted from the report that we are not in a supermarket with a shopping cart. this is the charter of fundamental rights and we are not here to decide what should be retained or totally removed. it is, however, the charter which must be included in part 2 of the constitution. so when colleagues propose that we remove access to the right to education, to asylum, to citizenship, the reference to racism, when colleagues question the equality between men and women, question sexual orientation, i tell them that next time we will not have to call this text the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, but the charter of random rights of the european union.
in writing. - the martínez martínez report calls on the european parliament to approve the commission's 2001 annual report on its development policy and the implementation of external aid. we voted against the report to show our opposition to the commission's policy and to its justification. even the very official undp report finds that the situation in most poor countries has worsened over the past year and for some of them is catastrophic. in these circumstances, the very title of the report, which speaks of development policy, is an insult to the hundreds of thousands of human beings whose situation, instead of improving, is deteriorating. it is also an insult that the report dares to praise the importance attached by the commission to the fight against poverty. the amounts of aid provided are paltry; they are not on the scale of what the plundering of these countries brings to the oil, construction, shipping trusts and the countless european companies that enrich themselves on the miserable wages distributed in these countries. the report calls for specific actions to protect indigenous populations. in addition to a language that flourished in colonial times, which should be protected above all from the poor countries, especially from africa, it is from these predators that the large trusts are ... (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - i am a strong advocate of maintaining and even developing cultural diversity in europe, particularly at the time of enlargement to 25. and since languages are the primary component of this diversity, i am in favour of linguistic enlargement, whatever the material and technical difficulties that may arise. i am afraid, moreover, of the double-dealing of those who advocate the multiplication of languages in order to better impose, in practice, the monopoly of english. we must therefore work on the question of languages, in particular by looking objectively at esperanto again. the monopoly of english is not good for europe or for britain, whose language will become "a language of the kitchen".
in writing. - this initiative shows that it is illusory and clumsy to want to deal at european level with issues which must remain strictly national. because, not content with weakening the states by emptying them, from above (supranational integration) and from below (sub-national regionalization) of their sovereignty, 'we' are here attacking one of the essential components of the national unity of some member states: language. the proposed system is not only aimed at objectively recognising linguistic diversity, but also at promoting it at the expense of national languages. furthermore, recognition of minority or regional languages undoubtedly prepares for the recognition of the peoples who speak them. i cannot therefore accept that the commission establishes 'the criteria for defining, in the context of a possible programme to promote linguistic diversity, the concept of a minority or regional language' or, another source of concern, the desire to give binding force to the charter for regional or minority languages. i am fully in favour of preserving regional cultural and linguistic identities, but i remain also faithful to the principles set out in our constitution: 'france is an indivisible republic', 'the language of the republic is french'.
in writing. - we could agree with some of the calls made in the joint resolution and we are of course in favour of cooperation between countries in the face of disasters, particularly to help countries like portugal. but the whole text is only intended to mask the responsibility of the states in their inability to cope with the consequences of the heat wave and forest fires. the heat wave itself is obviously not the responsibility of the states, and forest fires in general are not either. but why were there not enough staff in the nursing homes and hospitals to deal with the effects of the heat wave on the elderly? why weren't there enough firefighters, equipment, to fight forest fires? because all governments, even the richest, have been cutting back on essential public services for years. the funds allocated to them are being reduced, and not enough staff are being hired. even in normal times, hospital emergency services and firefighting services are at the limit of their capabilities and only meet their obligations by imposing unbearable working conditions on their staff. what good are the vague promises that it will not happen again? (explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - the heat wave in europe this summer should, beyond the media emotion, open the eyes of decision-makers on two points. we are responsible for the climate change and the dangerous world we are leaving to our children. for some things, it's already too late. for others, it will mean making bold decisions very quickly, even if they are unpopular! the thousands of deaths, often of elderly people and sometimes of anonymous victims, remind us that it is not enough to "prolong life" but that we must give people the means to live, whatever their situation, disability, health or age. our society is far from it and, worse, it is moving away from it! (see the french government's decisions to reduce taxes).
in writing. - we did not vote in favour of this joint resolution on the heat wave for the simple reason that it does not take account of the social, health and ecological catastrophe. the heat wave was not inevitable and its dire consequences were not inevitable. this climate catastrophe is primarily the result of the greenhouse effect due to global warming generated by human activity. however, other options are possible, including forcing the industrial powers to comply with the kyoto protocol. liberal choices in energy and transport policy are harmful and criminal. when will we have a renewable energy resolution to move away from fossil fuels and nuclear power? a resolution on rail and railway priority and, above all, other development and spatial planning choices is needed. finally, in order to reduce public deficits and dismantle public services in accordance with the dogma of the stability pact, social and hospital services are being closed down. by reviewing the pension and benefit systems, we are pushing the elderly into precariousness and poverty, making them even more vulnerable and destroying systems of solidarity. this policy has killed over 14,000 people in europe. other social choices are urgently needed.
in writing. - we are of course denouncing the heavy sentences and the violations of freedoms in cuba, but we must not forget the immense responsibility of the united states, its economic embargo, its political pressure and its military threat, the aim of which is not to ensure greater freedom for the cuban people but to strangle this small country which has dared to escape its direct grip. but if the majority of members voted for this resolution against the arrests in cuba, how many of them remain silent when the great power they represent supports, finances and arms authoritarian regimes or dictatorships, particularly in its former colonies, that is to say in its spheres of economic influence today? the virtuous indignation at the violations of freedoms in cuba does not deserve any credit when it is selective. everyone should start by sweeping in front of his own door. for our part, we want to denounce our own state, france, which, while posing as a country of human rights, maintains troops in several african countries and defends, if necessary with weapons in hand, as in côte d'ivoire at the moment, authoritarian regimes that have infinitely less legitimacy vis-à-vis their own peoples than the cuban regime vis-à-vis its own. we did not participate in this charade.
in writing. - this year again i see that this report on human rights in the world is far from achieving the objectives it should have. who can fail to see that the moral lessons given to each other, the unfair accusations, the risky accusations, are all acts of inadmissible interference in the internal affairs of the states concerned and, consequently, are not likely to bring about a positive change in the situation? furthermore, in the name of what does this parliament judge the diplomacy of the member states in denouncing those who 'support anti-democratic regimes in different parts of the world, when economic, military interests ... are at stake at their national level'? as the delusional remarks on the fight against international terrorism, which is stigmatised in this report on the grounds that it 'is a serious threat to the protection of human rights' (!), finally show, moralising evangelicalism always trumps objective realism. if there is one area where naive idealism often proves disastrous, it is foreign policy. it is high time that europe recognized this geopolitical constant and quickly stopped its fruitless inquisitorial campaigns.
in writing. - mr fodé sylla's report on the situation of fundamental rights in the union, which is based on extremist proposals, gives an idea of what might happen if the union gained a more solid competence in this area (as proposed by the convention). the commission's proposals on immigration are as follows: extension of the right of asylum; wider legal channels of immigration; relaxation of naturalisation procedures; extension of the concept of european citizenship to legal immigrants from outside the community; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the disabled are respected. these proposals are accompanied by severe and peremptory judgments on a specific european country, which is ordered to make amends to rehabilitate itself. in the meantime, france is being asked to ratify the charter for regional and minority languages, which the previous socialist government had signed. i hope she never does. it is clear that if the charter of fundamental rights were to become binding, the union would have the means, thanks to it and to article 7 teu, to impose a genuine rights policy geared - or rather disoriented - towards the disruption of our societies.
in writing. - what the european authorities pompously call fundamental rights is at best only a vague notion whose content is reduced to little for the workers and the most vulnerable of the inhabitants of this europe. and, with a few exceptions, the report does not record progress but retreat in this area, because, more often than not, the policies are intended and applied by states which would like us to believe that they are the guarantors of real rights for the people of europe. the people who are denied the most basic individual, economic, social or political rights in this society are first and foremost the 'little ones', and the ones who are harshest treated are women, children, the disabled, the elderly, homosexuals, asylum seekers, immigrants, members of national minorities, etc. for millions of workers, the prospects are unemployment, low wages, the arbitrariness of employers, exploitation, and death at work. where do they find the fundamental rights on which the european union is founded? our vote in favour of the report was motivated by the accuracy of its critical description of the actual state of human rights in europe, but it does not imply that we share the illusions of its author about the capacity of the european institutions to fundamentally change things.
in writing. - the epp was forced not to vote on this text despite the importance which our group attaches to respecting and defending fundamental rights. the whole charter, but nothing but the charter. once again, this principle, which was approved by our parliament, has not been respected. from shopping lists to activism to the promotion of personal opinions, this report is a catalogue of ideological but irrational wishes. many of the points raised do not concern fundamental rights in general or fundamental rights within the european union. the epp does not share the so-called progress in certain areas (notably asylum law) or the tendency to extrapolate the letter of the charter on certain points relating to discrimination. moreover, mentioning countries only adds weight to the text and awakens unnecessary nationalistic reflexes. has the charter as it is written been respected in the union in the year under review? this is the subject of the report which our parliament must produce and which must be adhered to in order to give it a strong political base.
in writing. - among the many annual reports adopted by parliament, many are of real interest. this is not the case, however, with the famous report on fundamental rights in the union, which, far from serving the european cause, highlights the worst aspects of community federalism! the approach of such a report is in itself rather incongruous since it consists, for parliament, in denouncing alleged violations of fundamental rights, allegedly committed by the member states of the european union! in fact, it is hardly an exaggeration to say that anyone who reads this indigestible document inevitably has the impression that, composed of quasi-banana republics, the european union has become a zone of no rights! overcrowding of prisons, the challenge to freedom of conscience, discrimination against minorities, (economic) control of the media, the increase in racist acts, restrictive migration policies, etc.: no member state is spared and, in the end, the whole of the european union appears as a freedom-killing area. of course, all of this is fantasy. however, the fact remains that, controlled by powerful human rights lobbies, parliament would make a fool of itself by adopting such a report.
in writing. - the question of water services will not be discussed at the wto meeting in cancun. it's a shame. the lannoye report examines the commission's proposal to create, among other things, a european water fund for the acp countries. these countries are, it should be remembered, major trading partners. they are also affected by a cruel lack of access to safe drinking water and sanitation. access to water is a right, as is the possibility for people living in rural areas in our member states to have basic public services (post office, education, clinic, etc.) at their disposal. access to water must therefore remain a public service and not be managed on a purely commercial basis. the 1980s were marked by the failure of the imf and the world bank policies on aid conditionality. only countries that privatize their water and electricity distribution networks received aid from international institutions. the commission is about to make the same management mistake with the european water fund. i support the lannoye report in its critical analysis of the commission's programme.
in writing. - i approved the lannoye report on water management in developing countries because it rightly emphasises the urgency of the problem: today, out of six billion people, 1.7 billion do not have access to clean water, and 30,000 die every day. the johannesburg conference set the target of halving the number of people without access to safe drinking water by 2015, and europe must work together to achieve this. that is why we particularly approve the creation of a european water fund for the acp countries in general and african countries in particular. the projects supported by this fund will have to be defined, not from above, but with the national authorities and the populations concerned at the bottom. priority should be given to a management model based on public-private partnership, in which the public sets the general framework for private sector action and its objectives. however, the lannoye report remains wary of the actions of private enterprises. i think that privatisation of water management, even on a small scale, if it is used well, should allow for more rational management.
in writing. - by abstaining, we finally refused to vote on this report because, at the time of the vote, an amendment, amendment no 15, was adopted by the epp in favour of the private interests of the large water companies.
in writing. - the summer heat wave and its thousands of deaths confirmed this in europe and in the developing world, the 30,000 people who die every day from diseases linked to the lack of clean water reminds us: water is the most crucial problem threatening humanity. climate change will make it worse. the commission is therefore urgently in need of developing massive, targeted and funded action plans. paul lannoye and the committee on development and cooperation have made us some minimum proposals which must be implemented quickly.
in writing. - the draft resolution tabled by mr paul lannoye is a very comprehensive response to the scandal of the shortage of drinking water experienced by hundreds of millions of people in developing countries. it calls into question the responsibility of the major international organisations for the dismantling of public services that has led to this situation. however, a majority in parliament was found to empty part of the resolution of its content by amendments which refuse to point out the responsibilities and thus, beyond good feelings, to weigh in for a real improvement in the living conditions of the populations concerned. the adoption of amendment 15, which 'stresses that the key issue is not whether the water supply is provided by the public or private sector but what are the specific obligations arising from the regulatory framework', changes the spirit of the report. it is the commodification of this essential commons that is the cause of inequalities of access, scarcity and excessive cost in our developed countries, as well as in developing countries. i therefore abstained in the final vote.
in writing. - while access to water has recently been proclaimed a human right, the number of people without access to safe drinking water worldwide has been increasing steadily in recent years, reaching 1.7 billion today. we must recognise and tackle the causes of water scarcity, whether it be intensive and productivist agriculture, export-oriented economies that often undermine local economic development, or the liberalisation of public services in the water sector, often a condition imposed by the world bank and the imf on countries in the south to receive loans. the costs of water services have also become unaffordable for the poorest populations. to remedy these divergences, we want, in the north and in the south, the establishment of new modes of production and consumption based on sustainable water management. we want to promote ecological agriculture and new irrigation systems. in the face of the tragedy facing the people and the total inadequacy of the responses provided so far, the creation of a european water fund for the acp countries is a good initiative. access to drinking water and sanitation services must be defined by national authorities with the participation, through civil society associations and movements, of the populations concerned.
in writing. - the morgantini report rejects the logic of the european commission's communication on 'how to help developing countries to benefit from international trade'. the commission is in favour of liberalising services, helping the private sector and increasing trade in goods, which should help the development of the least developed countries. we know that these "recipes" of the capitalist economic system are increasing the scandalous income gap between rich and poor countries every day! on the eve of the cancun summit, whose objective is to deepen the commodification of the world, we support the proposals aimed at cancelling the debt, establishing fair trade rules, removing the response to the needs of the people from the market sphere, and abolishing export subsidies for agricultural products from rich regions. we therefore voted in favour of this report, even though we believe that the wto, an instrument of domination by rich countries over others, should not be 'democratized' but abolished!
in writing. - if any black african has heard of the discussions we have in the european parliament, he will soon realize that many of our debates are about questions that only rich countries can ask themselves. indeed, when he looks at his own situation and that of the vast majority of his people, he realises that there is a gap between the old continent and this africa in the making. but we have a message for him. since europe, as we have constantly proclaimed, is based on the values of humanism and solidarity, we must put these noble sentiments into practice. we must help those who suffer, we have the means. medical means first, to stop the fact that over 28,000 children under the age of five die every day from diseases that can be cured, many of them easily. we can also support and assist aids patients with the same treatments we provide for our european patients, but which are expensive for developing countries. is there any greater inequality in the face of disease than this? we also have the financial means. how can we remain indifferent when, for example, funds we have earmarked for development are not being used and these funds could save lives? (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - we did not vote for this report because we do not want to support capital investors, whether in the cultural sector or in other sectors. in fact, they are often the same: many capitalists who profit from investments in private television, cinema or publishing, derive the bulk of their profits from public works, the monopoly of water distribution or even the manufacture of weapons. we want to protect those who make this 'culture industry' work. we therefore express our full support for the entertainers in france who have been fighting for several months to defend their living conditions. the french government, which makes such a big deal of the "cultural exception", does not make an exception for the workers of the entertainment industry: on the direct recommendations of the big employers, it has just attacked their social protection, as it is preparing to increase the attacks on the social security of all employees.
in writing. - we must always exercise great caution whenever the union intends to invest in a new area of competence. this is precisely the case with this report, which aims to strengthen cooperation between european cultural industries. in principle, this objective does not raise any major objection. however, there are strong reservations about certain points in this document. the same is true of the lack of a clear definition of the concept of cultural works (in this case, almost everything could be considered "cultural"), which opens the door to many abuses. it is also necessary to stress the danger of the instrumentalisation of culture for the purposes of europeanist propaganda and, finally, the possible questioning of national cultural identities (what exactly does the definition of culture as 'an essential and unifying element (...) of the citizens of europe' mean?). finally, what about the risk of public funds being squandered on projects of no real cultural or popular interest - european taxpayers' money should no longer be used to subsidize elitist productions for a minority of 'privileged' people? for all these reasons, i shall not vote in favour of this report.
- mr president, last july i put an oral question to the commission on the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technical cooperation with israel, which received the following reply, and i quote: 'the commission considers that the development of relations with israel is an important contribution to the peace process.' you told us pretty much the same thing today, mr. nielson. if i share the idea that knowledge and the exchange of knowledge contribute to the construction of a better world, as well as economic cooperation, i am particularly astonished by this answer. this position completely ignores the european parliament's resolution of april 2002, which is clearly worth recalling here in view of the general title of the debate. it is well known that in paragraph 8 of the resolution parliament asked the council and the commission to convene the association council as a matter of urgency to convey its position to the israeli government, asking the latter to respect the un resolutions, and that in this context it called for the suspension of the association agreement. what is the situation a year and a half after the demand was made? the agreement was born in 1995, in the wake of the oslo process, as a contribution to peacebuilding. however, the situation is radically different today. what kind of cooperation is the commission talking about? any partnership can only be conceived on the basis of mutual trust and shared rights and duties. the criminal attitude of the israeli authorities shows every day not only that they ignore the union's concerns, but also that they are bidding for a murderous escalation. for more than a year now, israel has been building a wall in the west bank for supposed security reasons. it is in fact an iron curtain that is slaughtering palestinian lands and driving tens of thousands of inhabitants from their homes. thus, new lands are about to be annexed. it is time to put parliament's resolution into practice. there are precedents. in 1990, the commission had applied the parliament's recommendation to partially freeze scientific cooperation until the full and lasting reopening of palestinian schools and universities which had been unilaterally closed by the israeli authorities. this reopening had been made possible for at least a few months. today, with the fundamental rights clause being brutally violated in full view of the world, why is the request for suspension too much? why is it too much to ask for the law to be enforced and respected? finally, mr president, i am aware that the council, which is today shamefully absent, has an overwhelming responsibility. as a theoretical member of the quartet, the union has the means to weigh in. he lacks the political will.
- mr nielson, may i take this opportunity to remind you that on 10 april our parliament voted a resolution calling for the freezing of the association agreements. eighteen months after that resolution, it is still being ignored. can this be considered as unwavering support for the policies of the israeli state despite its violations of human rights and international law? yes, you talk about economic agreements, trade, financial interests, but let's also talk about the right to life. this colonial war is taking more and more victims. while the road map provided for the freezing of settlement, jewish settlements continued to grow and bypass roads were built. the situation in israel is dramatic. discrimination against some israeli citizens is increasing, they are persecuted, excluded from certain rights, because they are israeli arabs. the knesset has passed a law that prevents palestinians from obtaining israeli citizenship by marriage. it's a discriminatory and racist law. a recent report by fidh, the international federation of human rights leagues, reveals a form of modern slavery for migrant workers. even mr. abraham burg, former speaker of the knesset, is sounding the alarm. he says that israel is a scaffolding of corruption, built on foundations of oppression, injustice, which is reduced to a colonialist state, with a clique of immoral, outlawed and corrupt individuals at its head. the situation in the occupied territories is dramatic. a wall of shame materializes apartheid and injustice, and palestinian society is experiencing a tragedy. we will not, of course, count the dead. but who are the victims of terrorism, of the state terrorism that murders refugees every day? in conclusion, mr president, i would say that we cannot remain silent. is it not our duty to put pressure on the israeli government by all means at our disposal, including economic and commercial means? and why not paralyse these association agreements as we did yesterday, courageously, in south africa against apartheid?
- it has now been more than three months since aung san suu kyi, nobel peace prize and sakharov prize laureate, was held by the burmese junta who simply kidnapped her. un envoys or red cross representatives are not allowed to visit regularly. last july, a delegation from the international committee of the red cross was reportedly aung san suu kyi's last contact with the outside world. no one's seen her since. today, just as the dictatorship denied the young woman's secret detention, the burmese authorities deny her hunger strike, made public on august 31 by the us state department. the imprisonment and arrest of national league for democracy party activists in may rightly caused a lot of emotion in the world. the united states then seized the opportunity to strengthen its economic sanctions against the rangoon regime. today, the us's use of this announcement, which is probably demagogic, cannot hide the regime's harshness or its hypocrisy in promising a roadmap officially designed to restore democracy. this programme, which includes - i quote - free and fair elections and a new constitution, still does not set a timetable and remains silent on the release of the opposition leader. he is coming, and it is a bad omen, after the junta has shown its willingness to ignore the democratic demands of its people. the military did not recognise the results of the 1990 elections, which, it should be recalled, resulted in a landslide victory for aung san suu kyi's party. the association of southeast asian nations is now threatening to expel burma from its membership. she called for aung san suu kyi's release before her next summit in bali in october. the european union must do everything possible to force the military junta to release the nobel prize. the council and the commission must now show, by means of tough sanctions, their determination to make a concrete contribution to the process of democratization in burma, in collaboration with the united nations. political pressure must be increased. under the leadership of one of the most brutal dictatorships, with a head of government who has also been the head of military intelligence for the last 40 years, the burmese people need all our solidarity. the concern about the rangoon lady is very real. let us hear the opposition who have just declared that this hunger strike is the announcement that the burmese generals are poisoning them by stealth.
in writing. - the reason for our abstention in this vote is twofold. firstly, under the terms 'protect acp bananas' or 'supplier countries', the protection actually goes to the capital invested in this sector, often by large financial groups in the french or english capitals. but nothing protects the real producers, the banana workers, from the low wages imposed on them under the pretext of competitiveness, or from the redundancies imposed by both the winners and the losers of the trade war. secondly, the vote is ultimately intended to favour one or the other of the protagonists of global competition in this sector. we refuse to support either side in this rivalry, the winner of which will be one of the multinational groups, and certainly not the workers in this sector or the consumers or the taxpayers.
- mr president, the commission must decide by this evening on the rescue plan for the alstom group. it is a group with 118 000 employees and includes industries of high importance to the european union. far from seeing the problem only from the european perspective, there are heavy responsibilities for the former management of this group and for the french state. that said, the european union is challenged on the competition rules, on state aid and also on the commission's exorbitant power in these matters. that is why i think that the alstom case is, in a way, indicative of the strategic choices we have to make for the future of europe, particularly in the perspective of the adoption of a constitution. that is why my group would propose that this question be included, if possible, in the form of a commission statement followed by a debate on tomorrow's agenda.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has adopted a report on the proposal for a council regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of consumers. - mr president, i would like to ask the presidency what the purpose of the strengthened hughes procedure is. since this report is part of the enhanced hughes procedure, the committee on the environment and the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism would normally have prepared it in the same way. finally, that is not the point, it will be an occasion for another debate. as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, i can say that society has rarely had a debate as lively and as intense as the one on prestige. after all, we're a long way from disaster here. the prestige has really been a shock in galicia, but also in france and throughout europe. no one, no citizen, was insensitive to this catastrophe, especially after erika in 1999, when we had already said here: "never again!" mr president, commissioner, we have to answer questions that have not yet been answered. for example, if we know how it happened, we don't know why it happened. it's not clear why the prestige was towed to the high seas, and citizens who ask have a right to know. but parliament and the commission have also reacted very quickly. we had asked for a committee of inquiry which was rejected by the majority of this parliament and so this is a report that has followed, with this strengthened hughes procedure which unfortunately does not do much good. nevertheless, it was a very thorough work and good cooperation that was put in place with the various stakeholders and the various colleagues. for my part, with the rapporteur in the background, i participated in all the initiatives on behalf of the committee on the environment to arrive at this report, which is relatively complete, the committee on the environment having worked on the more specific aspect of the environment. i would therefore like to take up four points, four demands from the committee on the environment: the first concerns the priority of recovering fuel oil. there is no question of letting the 13 000 tonnes of fuel go down the drain: that would be to be complicit in a stealthy black tide which would continue to pollute our coasts for years to come. the second point is the rehabilitation of the natural space. we are calling for the implementation of the habitats directive and the classification of natura 2000 areas, as well as for the means to restore the natural environment, the coasts, the marine environment and the marine flora. the question of volunteers, mr president, is also very important. we are asking for an epidemiological study to be carried out on the population, to find out whether, in fact, the volunteers should continue to collect the fuel or not in case of a problem, etc. but i'm not going to do the whole inventory. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the vote tomorrow. the vote tomorrow is not about the wrong committee of inquiry; it is a temporary commission that we want, to have all the truth and to know what to do and what not to do in case of disaster. this is really the decision-making aid we are asking for from the temporary committee. so it is not a committee on the application of the erika i and erika ii directives that will tell us and make things happen.
- i know the reporters have all worked hard. unfortunately, i have to make sure that i'm on time. the rapporteur for opinion is registered for two minutes and has exceeded his speaking time by 40 seconds, or even by one minute, and even by one minute and thirty seconds for the last rapporteur. i will ask my colleagues to stick as closely as possible to the time allotted to them.
the committee on fisheries has tabled a number of amendments. - mr rapporteur, i looked for what you had forgotten and, with the exception of the headquarters of the maritime safety agency, which will have to be determined one day, i did not find it. let me return to some of the points made in the opinion of the committee on fisheries. first, we must recover the oil, even if there is less of it. the peace of the fishing depends on it. secondly, responsibility: sailors, like everyone else, want to understand. tomorrow, when we vote on the question of the temporary committee, we must hope that it will contribute to the understanding of what has happened and of the shared responsibilities of france and spain. thirdly, commissioner, firefighting vessels will have to become pollution-removal vessels. tomorrow, in the event of an accident, we will need a fleet capable of quickly retrieving that fuel or oil. fourthly, as regards the maritime corridors that the report advocates in order to model the organisation of maritime navigation on air navigation, i think everyone in the fishing world will agree with it. finally, the question of technical control in ports, which everyone is concerned about, i think it would be good to think about social control and a form of labour inspection. it should be remembered that maritime safety and regulation are first and foremost about protecting the lives of seafarers on board, whether they are fishermen, traders or other modes of transport.
mr president, madam commissioner, the report which opens our session deals with a major subject, not only for those countries which are geographically designated to suffer regularly from the trauma of oil spills, but also for all those states whose hydrocarbon supplies are located along the north-east atlantic, the channel and the north sea, one of the world's most frequented routes for oil tankers. the mutual information and solidarity between the two countries should be seriously improved. that is why a temporary committee of our parliament could be useful in the wake of the double disaster of the erika and the prestige - my region suffered both - provided, of course, that it is not turned into a forum for political settling of accounts, as might have been feared by the conditions in which some had launched the idea of a committee of inquiry. this would be a very different exercise. it is obviously not a question of judging the government of a member state, but of listing, collating, comparing and taking stock of the various initiatives taken at all levels in europe, by the member states, local authorities and the commission, to deal with the consequences of these two terrible shipwrecks. parliament would be in its role if, in strict compliance with subsidiarity, it sought to draw lessons for the benefit of all from what has worked and what has not, from the limits of union action, from the shortcomings of international law, from exemplary initiatives to be promoted, from joint actions to be developed and co-financed between the countries concerned. the report we are debating this afternoon is beginning to venture in this direction, but it is doing so, by force of circumstances, in a very partial way and sometimes by proposing unrealistic and ineffective solutions. i am thinking in particular of the idea of a european federal coastguard service or of the proposals to give joint responsibilities to the european agency and the member states for emergency plans, which can only lead to a dangerous confusion of roles. the major weakness of the current system is still the question of liability and compensation. the increase in the ceiling for fipol, commissioner, is good news, but it is not enough - we know that. we cannot tolerate a system where - as is the case today - a large part of the compensation for victims is borne by the taxpayers of the countries or regions that have been polluted. all those responsible for the pollution chain must be able to be held financially and criminally liable. it is to this end, mr president, that the member states should now give priority to their work within the framework of the imo.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too, along with other members, would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr sterckx, on the work he has done in rather difficult conditions and on his attentiveness during the many debates that have taken place. i believe that this report will make useful progress towards greater maritime safety. i shall therefore merely insist on a few points which i think need to be improved. in retrospect, new evidence has been uncovered regarding the prestige. for example, we now know the impressive amount of fuel that is leaking from the tanks, which we were told we had to empty. indeed, i too think that a temporary committee of inquiry seems more timely than ever. it is essential to know as objectively as possible the causes and consequences of shipwrecks, in order to make the best decisions for the future. it would be incomprehensible to the citizens of europe if the organisation of such a committee were not proposed or accepted by our assembly. secondly, in the face of such disasters, how can we fail to see that those responsible are not the ones who suffer the most from the financial, economic and social consequences? the reign of irresponsibility and impunity must end. these disasters are not usually due to natural causes but are often the result of management behaviour and methods that are geared solely to financial gain, with no other considerations. the cost of investments in ship quality, maintenance, social conditions and training of seafarers is thus continually being cut. in this race for profitability, honest professionals - and there are some - who invest in safety are suffering. we must therefore now set up a system of compensation whereby the responsible parties, charterers, shipowners, owners and insurers, pay the full amount of the damage caused. the victims must be compensated fully and effectively. if mr sterckx's report is right about flags of convenience and their control, i think it would be necessary to go further with the banning of flags of convenience in european waters, as parliament has already called for in a previous resolution. nor will maritime issues be resolved without seafarers, their knowledge, skills and representatives. any decision should be made in a process of consultation with those who make and care for the life of the sea. i think that is not yet the case. finally, i would like to draw attention to one last point. these debates on maritime safety issues highlight the importance of public and socially responsible actions. today, however, a policy of liberalisation is being advocated everywhere. in the name of competition, we are constantly looking for lower costs. is this not what we suffer for in order to improve security? on the contrary, i believe that europe must, in maritime matters as in other matters, take the side of public responsibility, which says loud and clear that the first criterion is safety, the first criterion is the planet and the lives of the people who inhabit it.
- mr president, madam commissioner, i should first like to congratulate mr sterckx on his excellent, well-researched, balanced and constructive report. never again! this is the watchword and the objective sought in relation to maritime disasters with serious ecological, economic and human impacts, such as oil spills. however, there is still a long way to go to improve maritime safety. at european level and after erika, the commission has proposed a whole series of appropriate and courageous measures, the erika i and erika ii packages, to prevent this kind of disaster. these measures would clearly have prevented a further oil spill. madam commissioner, how courageous you have been! how right you were! unfortunately, due to the culpable delay of some member states, the erika i and erika ii packages did not come into force until this year, and again on 23 july. the commission initiated proceedings against ten member states for failing to fulfil their notification obligations. in any case, these measures came into force far too late to prevent the prestige disaster, and the heavy fuel oil it was carrying continues to pollute the coasts of galicia and brittany, passing through my region, aquitaine, with the very serious consequences that everyone knows. it is already known that the compensation proposed will cover only a small part of the damage suffered. what human tragedies! what poorly closed scars! this is why it is urgent to know what decision has been taken to recover the thousands of tonnes of fuel oil still in the prestige wreck. there is a burning obligation here. in addition, it is already known that the compensation proposed by fipol will cover only a small part of the damage suffered. i therefore ask the commission and the council to do everything possible to ensure that the european supplementary fund for the compensation of flood victims, the cope fund proposed by the erika ii package, is set up to provide the additional aid. many documents have been published on the prestige disaster. i would like to quote the remarkable report of the french national assembly. the european parliament, for its part, has twice heard the european commission. furthermore, the investigation is still ongoing. legal proceedings were initiated in france, spain and elsewhere to establish definitively the exact circumstances of the sinking and to determine the responsibilities of the various actors in this tragedy. those who advocate a committee of inquiry into the prestige do so, it seems to me, on the basis of political criteria. we must look to the future, to prevention, and not to political politics in this painful matter. that is why, as a member of the european parliament, i am thinking first and foremost of the victims and, therefore, of preventing new disasters from occurring in the first place. i want to move on. it is in this spirit that i tabled an amendment, which my group has adopted, calling for the creation of a temporary committee to assess the effectiveness of the erika i and ii packages, in order to prevent any further disasters and, if necessary, to propose their strengthening. there are many questions for us and for public opinion. it's time to answer them. what is the situation in the member states? how reliable are double-hulled ships? mr sterckx spoke about this earlier, what about the concept of safe havens? this is the question, as well as others, to which the temporary committee can give a reassuring answer: this is its sole purpose. i hope that, despite the political divisions, you will agree to support this forward-looking initiative on this important subject. it is the best way to say, never again!
mr president, after the shipwrecks of the prestige, the erika and many other oil and chemical tankers which caused enormous damage, who would not want to strengthen maritime safety? however, if the intentions announced in this report are good, one may ask who will enforce the resolutions taken. will the european institutions dare to touch the big oil companies by imposing on them the polluter pays principle? will they dare, above all, to prevent them from doing harm by forcing them to take precautions, even if they lose out on their profits? everybody knows the answer. in france, the oil company total only partially compensated the erika victims, leaving the rest to the state - i.e. taxpayers. two years after the accident, total has not taken responsibility for the catastrophe at the azf plant in toulouse. these large trusts can pollute, ruin thousands of people who live off the sea or, as in the case of azf, be responsible for reckless homicides without even being held accountable. they rely on national or european law, because they know that the states, ruthless against small offenders, do not worry about the large groups responsible for damage of a completely different scale. the sanctions against the lampworkers, like the captain of the polluting ship, are unworthy because the real culprits are not concerned, that is to say the real beneficiaries of the race for profit, the owners and major shareholders of the oil or chemical trusts. as you will have seen, we take this report at its very best, but we have no illusions about its implementation.
- before giving the commission the floor again, our rapporteur, in accordance with rule 121 (4), asked for the floor. i'll gladly give it to him.
the commission (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking all the speakers for their very interesting speeches. let's be honest with each other. for a long time, the best policy for maritime safety in the european union was precisely the absence of maritime safety. i shall refer to the last 15 years only, because that is when we have the single act - and therefore majority voting - in the field of transport. and i'm only going to refer to the most spectacular cases. 1987: casón, europe, chemicals, 23 dead; 1989: exxon valdez, in the united states, 40 000 tonnes of oil spilled; 1991: haven, in europe, 144 000 tonnes of oil; 1992: aegean sea, europe, 74 000 tonnes of crude; 1993: braer, also in europe, 85 000 tonnes of oil spilled; 1996: sea empress, 70 000 tonnes of oil spilled also in europe; 1997: the nakhodka spill occurs in japan, with 19 000 tonnes of crude; in 1999 the erika spills 20 000 tonnes of heavy oil in europe and in 2002 the prestige, also in europe, 63 000 tonnes of heavy oil. it is important to note that in 1987 (casón), 1991 (haven), 1992 (mar aegean), 1993 (braer) and 1996 (sea empress) there were national, regional and european governments. there was a commission, a parliament and a council of ministers and nothing was done. that's what happens, your honours. we must wait until 1999, with this commission and this parliament, for action to be taken. in 1981, immediately after the exxon valdez sinking, the united states introduced the oil pollution act (opa); if we had done the same here in europe in 1987, 1991 or 1992, the accidents of the braer, the sea empress, the erika and the prestige, to name only the most serious, would certainly have been avoided. ladies and gentlemen, we must prevent this from happening again. there are two aspects: prevention and dealing with disaster, if it occurs. mr sterckx's report is very comprehensive, and i congratulated him on it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of ships is not compromised by the fact that the ships are not equipped with safety belts. i am not at all comforted by the fact that we are polluting other seas of the world and that is why we have to work to see how we can avoid it. i would like to answer a few questions very briefly. the double helmets, as mr sterckx's report very well says, help and improve, but they are not the solution. we must look for a series of measures to strengthen security. we are also monitoring and analysing the ageing of these tankers, which have other problems which must be monitored closely, and we will also have to set a maximum age and a type of monitoring and controls from a certain point onwards. on the question of the european coastguard, i fully share the position of the european parliament, but we must also know where we stand. we are taking the first steps, through the agency, to better coordinate the actions and the control and rescue capacities of each of the countries of the union. the third issue is recovering the oil. the commission is very clear on this point and i must say that the spanish government has also insisted and reiterated its determination to recover. fourthly, the cleaning vessels. one of the interventions that has been made was on 'firefighting vessels'. that is what we are proposing, and we ask for your support in the matter of the modification of the agency's capacities and next year's budgets. fifthly, i myself have referred to the social aspect and the question of a communication language on each ship and, of course, the ability to communicate with external control systems. we have discussed this and are working on it, to make a clear proposal on this, in what will already be the prestige ii or erika iv package. sixthly, we cannot say that the same thing could happen today as three or four years ago with the erika, or even a year ago with the prestige. for two reasons. firstly, because we have adopted measures that are already being applied in advance with the greatest urgency, and secondly, because part of the erika i and erika ii packages are already in force and are forcing, for example, countries which did not carry out port controls to do so. we are actually seeking compliance with its obligations before the luxembourg court. the baltic sea. i have heard a number of speakers on this and i understand their concern. i am concerned about the baltic sea and other closed seas, such as the black sea, which is already a european coast and will be a sea of the european union, and the mediterranean sea, which is already a sea of the european union. they are also closed seas where there is a very important traffic of oil tankers, and where any catastrophic pollution would have far more negative consequences than in the baltic sea, because of the problem of regeneration, cleaning and renewal of the waters they have. in this respect we are working with our russian neighbours, because they are key players in the baltic sea and also because they are major oil exporters, to improve safety, to improve guarantees and to improve and implement a maritime traffic control system, which is absolutely essential, at least for ships carrying potentially dangerous goods. i think not only for them, but at least as a first step for ships carrying potentially dangerous goods and for ferries carrying people, which also have problems. as for the captain, there is one point: judicial decisions, in the country i know best, are made by judges and are independent. neither the spanish authorities, nor the european or regional authorities have much to say. that's for the sitting judge to decide, and i assure you they are enormously jealous of your independence. almost a year ago, we saw almost epic images: the sailors of the galician rivers faced what seemed an inevitable catastrophe and fought with all the means they had, even with means of fortune, to stop a black tide that seemed to be about to enter definitively into the very rich galician rivers, the rías bajas, which are a source and nursery of life and biodiversity in europe. and they won the battle, with spectacular effort. there were no schedules. all that mattered to those people was winning the battle at sea. i know because i've spoken to several of them, and i know that many of you here have, too. as a tribute to those people who gave a sample of the courage of the people of the sea, and as a tribute to the thousands and thousands of volunteers who have worked there throughout all this time, and to the concern and solidarity marked throughout europe in the face of a tragedy like that of the prestige, i want to tell you that we must ensure that it never happens again. i would ask you to consider, ladies and gentlemen, that this is what we have to talk about in the future. there has been a long period of neglect, a long period of not doing things and of us doing things. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. and we have to get it, which you have a number of months ahead of you still. in these months we can speed up, for example, the question of criminal liability, which i am still hoping we will get through; we can, for example, convince the council not to require unanimity from us in order to be able to criminalise marine pollution, as we have demanded from the commission, and as i hope that you will support. there are a number of positive issues on which we can and must work. you can always count on me to prevent the recurrence of catastrophes like those we have experienced, and i hope i can continue to count on all of you.
- thank you very much, commissioner, for your comments. i also join all the colleagues who have congratulated our rapporteur, mr sterckx, on the quality of his work. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the following reports are requested for joint debate: - report (a5-0295/2003) by mr mombaur, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive concerning measures to safeguard the security of natural gas supply (com (2002) 488 - c5-0449/2002 - 2002/0220 (cod)) - report (a5-0297/2003) by mr karlsson, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to measures to be taken against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from diesel engines for use in vehicles (com (2002) 488 - c5-0448/2002 - 2002/0219 (cod)) - report (a5-0293/2003) by mr karlsson, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council directive repealing council directives 68/414/eec and 98/93/ec requiring member states of the eec to maintain minimum stocks of petroleum and/or petroleum products and council directive 73/238/eec on measures to mitigate the effects of difficulties in the supply of crude oil and petroleum products (com (2002) 488 - c5-0489/2002 - 2002/0221 (cns))
- madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our debate this evening proves once again that energy is not a commodity like any other. just as the fate of alstom's 120,000 employees cannot be decided by the rules of free competition, so the future and energy independence - and thus the political independence of europe - cannot be secured by simply applying the rules and principles of the free market. even in the paradise of liberalism - i am talking about the united states of america - we know this and we know how to decide accordingly. that is why, unlike a very large majority, if not unanimity, of my colleagues, i personally welcome the commission's efforts to correct its approach in this area. i am in favour of greater gas and oil reserves, which can make it possible, in the event of a serious crisis, to reduce the possibility of resorting to war in a world where, as we know, control of energy is often the first cause. i am also in favour of more solidarity between member states in the event of shortages, under the auspices of the european commission, in order to avoid political pressure, or even conflict, between the member states with the best resources in this area, which can impose their choices on others. this is an area where, in my view, there is no contradiction between the legitimate respect for the powers of the states and the need to give more authority to the european commission. we must therefore follow you, madam vice-president, if only to avoid, as rolf linkohr said earlier, that one day you and the commission are accused of having done nothing.
mr president, the kirkhope report on which we are to vote concerns a german proposal which complements the discussions on the development of a european policy on the return of irregularly staying persons. the effective fight against illegal immigration requires a return policy, but returns must be carried out with respect for each person. we would like to point out that the european convention on human rights and fundamental freedoms and the charter of fundamental rights prohibit collective expulsions. we call for the continuation of the examination of common definitions with regard to refusal of admission and removal measures. in the area of illegal immigration, we are seeing a proliferation of initiatives by member states. the many initiatives that are put in place eventually escape the community sphere and are no longer coherent with one another. we cannot give a satisfactory answer to the human tragedies that are taking place on our planet. member states are adopting repressive measures to allow for expulsion, but there is still no european will to define an immigration policy. it is difficult to make progress in the area of illegal immigration management without a comprehensive legal immigration framework, which should have been established already under the tampere agenda. for the union's credibility in this area, we must meet the expectations of public opinion, which no longer understands our immigration policy. the council must continue its efforts to secure the adoption of the proposals still pending. the three directives currently in force on legal immigration must be adopted as soon as possible. the proposal for a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment or economic activity is blocked in the council. this is unacceptable! the proposal for a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of study, vocational training or voluntary service has not yet been submitted to the council working party. the proposal for a directive on the short-term residence permit for victims of illegal immigration or trafficking in human beings who cooperate with the competent authorities may not be adopted as planned by the justice and home affairs council at the end of november. but we all know that we urgently need this tool to fight organized crime. if the council does not make progress on legal immigration, the degree of harmonisation risks being reduced to the lowest common denominator and any action against illegal immigration will be neither effective nor meaningful.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when the king of france, louis xiv, died, his successor, louis xv, was greeted with a torrent of love from the french people. we join this torrent of love and we will vote for mr trichet, although there are no more objective reasons to support him than there were to love king louis xv in advance. the main reason for our enthusiasm for mr trichet will be our weariness with his predecessor. throughout his term of office, mr duisenberg explained to us that, although he had a mandate to support the objectives of the european union secondarily - the lisbon and gothenburg objectives, i.e. full employment and sustainable development - he considered that in order to obtain this support, it was sufficient to pursue the first objective, namely cost stability. as a result, during the three and a half years of his presidency, at the same rate of inflation as the united states, we have done infinitely less than the latter in the area of investment and stability. i hope mr trichet will not say: 'it can last as long as i do, after me the flood.'
- mr president, with the majority of my group and, in any case, all the french in the edd group, i will vote against the appointment of jean-claude trichet as president of the central bank, although i was told that it was not customary to vote against one of his compatriots. however, as we have all seen, mr trichet renounced his nationality in the committee on economic and monetary affairs - i am not a frenchman - in order to gain the commission's good graces, and he seems to have succeeded. the reason for our opposition, however, is deeper. jean-claude trichet is, as all french people know, one of the inspirers of a policy which sacrifices, has sacrificed and will deliberately sacrifice growth to the malthusian dogma of stability. we have been paying for the monetary policy of the central bank for ten years, with a growth rate of one point per year, and i am surprised, mr alain lipietz, that you have become so royalist. during the european convention we tried - mr katiforis and many others, most of them socialists, the greens - to change this dogma and to propose that in the new european constitution growth should be placed on the same level of ambition as stability. we have failed and i think that this parliament would do itself a great honour, or at least all those who have continued this fight, by abstaining on the appointment of mr trichet, who is so emblematic of this policy from which the european economy is suffering and continues to suffer, as we see every day.
mr president, i am no more a royalist than robert goebbels or alain lipietz, and i will therefore support mr trichet's appointment on the grounds of his professional competence. i believe that among the governors of the euro area central banks, his qualities are unanimously recognised. he has all the attributes to make a rigorous president of the ecb. he is not satisfied with the monetary policy he will pursue, but i have not yet met a central bank governor who is open to another monetary policy. so i imagine that we have to wait for other horizons for a reversal of the economic and monetary policy of the zone. let me make three observations in connection with this position. the first is that i hope that mr trichet - and i have no evidence of that at the moment - will be more open to what we should call the coordination of economic policies. he was a signatory to the maastricht treaty and was well aware that it rested on two pillars: monetary union and economic union. this economic union cannot function without governments being able to consider their fiscal and fiscal policies as being in the common interest. the role of a central bank governor today, if he does not want to be the scapegoat all the time, is to remind governments of this responsibility. telling governments that they can save on economic policy coordination by simply conducting monetary policy, and inviting them to carry out structural reforms alone, will not allow the euro area to regain real growth potential around investment in research, development and education. secondly, if we are to restore confidence, we will need this coordination of economic policies, not just a strictly criteria-based central bank. finally, i take this opportunity to express my surprise and concern at the position taken yesterday by the central bank, which calls for non-inflationary growth and price stability to be included among the objectives of the draft constitution. it seems to me that the balance of the wording of article 3 as it emerged from the convention is quite satisfactory and that it would be dangerous to follow the central bank on this point.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. - mr president, commissioner, this directive and this debate are terribly complex, and doubly complex, legal complexity and computer complexity. yet, their stakes are high. economically, tens of billions of dollars, philosophically, the status of human knowledge among men. in 6,000 years of history, the immense knowledge of mankind has progressed by copying. the necessary condition was that the products of knowledge, whether music, mathematics or anything else, should be freely and gratuitously accessible. copyright pays the creator without challenging these principles. when man uses material or uses the forces of nature, costs change, the necessary remuneration is much higher, the patent makes this remuneration possible by prohibiting the use of the invention without remuneration. a software is just a set of mathematical formulas, the creation of a new software sometimes uses several hundred previous software. to prohibit or slow down this growth is to undermine the proliferation of knowledge. the future of human knowledge will increasingly take the form of software. the 1972 convention prohibits the patenting of software, but the needs of large-scale industry, taking advantage of the imprecision of the definitions, have led to a proliferation of such patents. the legal status of these thousands of patents is unclear and this poses a huge danger to millions of individual creators or small businesses. you were right to want to end it. we need a directive and your proposal is a good basis for work, as you said this morning. you were right to want and to write that it is not a question of widening the scope of patentability. you have said this in recent articles. we therefore agree with your motives, commissioner, but many of us here, as we have just heard, and my group too, think that you have not gone to the end of your own logic. you end your last article with this admirable sentence, which i applaud: 'users of existing open access software will be able to continue to use it freely, irrespective of any future patents filed in this field'. that's what we want. but the technical arrangements in your directive do not guarantee that. we have therefore prepared amendments which clarify the distinction between an invention and a product of the human mind. the reference to matter and the forces of nature is not accepted by everyone, and this is the field of debate. this is the only reference that can prevent the capture of knowledge by companies powerful enough to manage and protect a huge portfolio of patents from being extended indefinitely, as you wish to do. i was pleased to read your letter, mr commissioner, and to think that you would agree with us and thank us for clarifying your text.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this morning's debate comes after a turbulent period in which the world of computer users, inventors and innovators has been defending tooth and nail its right to difference, freedom and creativity. at the heart of this debate is patentability with its advantages (when the patent protects the inventor) and its major disadvantages, which are linked to the creation of often conservative monopolies to the detriment of young creators. i continue to personally support this movement which seems to me to be in the same direction as all the alternative movements which are fighting for a less rigid and less commercial society. since this debate began, we have made progress with draft amendments which significantly improve the original draft. recognising that in order to be patentable, a computer-implemented invention must be capable of industrial application is a step in the right direction. it was necessary to clarify that patents should not be allowed for mere computer programs. however, the nuances introduced and the many inaccuracies cannot be ignored. at this stage of the debate, even if there is a risk that these amendments will not be voted on or taken up, it is clear that not all the problems have been solved, far from it. i will therefore be personally vigilant when voting and remain prepared to vote against the project if the improvements are merely a cosmetic attempt to mask the hold-up of creative minds by big business. in this respect, commissioner bolkestein's last sentence, which is blackmail, will not diminish my deep distrust.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what is this about? to protect the intellectual property resulting from computer innovation. two legal procedures are opposed: patentability on the one hand and copyright on the other. in our view, and i believe, commissioner, in the view of the vast majority of speakers in this house, the normal form of protection is copyright. if a journalist, a novelist, sees his text protected by copyright, he cannot claim to own the syntax, morphology, vocabulary and grammar of the language he uses. the same must be true of software, because software uses language. it is true, commissioner, that in your speech - extremely aggressive, even threatening, in relation to the criticism raised by your draft directive - you stated that software as such was not covered by patentability. but you can't take people for fools. and the least that can be said is that your directive is ambiguous, because the definition you give of computer-implemented invention, article 2 (a), can perfectly apply to software. of course, in article 4 of the draft directive, you seem to limit patentability to inventions which are, i quote, 'capable of industrial application'. but here's a concept you're not defining. it is well known that american multinationals have been successful in patenting such trivial things as the use of a click on a button to close a window on a screen, or the idea of alerting a user by a melody that he has received an e-mail, or the underlining by a colour of words that need correction in a word processor - and word processing is susceptible to industrial applications in typography or printing. i will quote again the electronic shopping cart in an internet store. young designers have even managed to drop the 35-hour workweek imposed by the previous government in my country. so why is such a text being proposed in this house? are the interests of the european patent office, which is financed on the basis of the number of patents filed, completely foreign to this? in reality, commissioner, there was a strategic choice to be made: either to align oneself with the patentability practice of the american multinationals - which is what you seem to be beginning to do - or to defend the specificity of european law and deny any effect to abusive patents. it is obvious that you have not made this second choice and your directive can be considered as not being in line with the legitimate interests of european creators.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of things i do not understand. for example, i am not sure i understand what led to the decision to make this directive. if this is only the problem of the european patent office and patent applications, i think it is still quite limited as a starting point. what i also fail to understand is that the european commission, so anxious to prevent industrial mergers, is proposing - as a number of experts believe - a support for industrial concentration. this seems to me to be contrary to the commission's objectives. i also do not understand the lack of memory shown here by forgetting the catastrophic directive on the patentability of living things. no one knows how to apply it and everyone has debated whether it is worthwhile. can we patent cells from a leaf without patenting the leaf itself? the problem of software and technical contributions is the same. the legal uncertainty we faced with the directive on the patentability of living things is re-emerging with the patentability of software, programmes and technical contributions. i have difficulty with words because the directive does not clearly define what a technical contribution is. in the face of these uncertainties, i find it difficult, commissioner, to understand what is happening. mr rocard was talking about 6,000 years of history, but history is accelerating in biotechnology, software and computers. are we able to keep up with these accelerated developments, even though economists predict many difficulties? in the pharmaceutical field, we are told, innovations are easier to identify and it is easier to determine what is covered by copyright or patent. as for the software, we don't know. it's still very difficult. publishers and teachers fear that the knowledge society, transparency and the flow of information will be threatened by this type of directive. i thought the european commission and europe had set themselves the objective of avoiding these threats. i don't understand what's going on.
commission. mr president, since there are many amendments, i do not propose to go through them all one by one, indicating the commission's response. with your permission i should like to provide you with a list of the amendments by number, showing which of them the commission can accept, which we cannot accept and which we could accept with suitable rewording commission's position on amendments by parliament: see annex.. on this understanding i should like to confine myself to some remarks of a general nature and hope to end with some more specific remarks to address questions raised by members of parliament. turning first to the mccarthy report itself, i have already indicated that we are favourably disposed to most of the amendments that have been made in it. however, i should like to speak about two specific amendments that raise important issues. the first is amendment no 20 - the insertion of a new article 6a on interoperability. at first sight this looks reasonable. on closer examination, however, it is plain, at least to the commission, that the exception as proposed might empty some patents of their value. in fact it could potentially render them totally worthless. i believe this would be disproportionate and in addition may be against our international obligations under the trips agreement. nevertheless we could look favourably on a provision that dealt with interoperability, provided that these important issues are dealt with. the wording used at the end of amendment no 76 might form the basis of a compromise because it evokes the trips agreement. the second point worth special mention is amendment no 18 - the addition of a new paragraph to article 5, dealing with computer program claims. that is something that the commission did not put into its original proposal. this was not an oversight but something that we considered long and hard. we were concerned that allowing computer product claims was a step on a slippery slope to allowing computer programs on their own to be patentable, something that is clearly contrary to the european patent convention and to the views of the vast majority of the members who spoke this morning. after reflection, however - and let me not disguise that a lot of this reflection was prompted by the work of this parliament - we consider that such a clause might work within the commission's overall objectives, if – and only if – we can word the article in a very careful and cautious way. unfortunately, i cannot be as positive about most of the amendments which have been tabled to the mccarthy report and which have to be considered here today. the problem with many such measures is that even if they were considered to be worth looking at, they all have one thing in common: they introduce a special regime for computer-related inventions. in patent law and practice it is a fundamental principle that inventions ought to be assessed in a neutral manner with regard to the type of technology on which they rely. the patent examiner will of course examine each individual invention for its inventive element, but he or she has no preconceptions that an invention that uses a certain type of technology is per se innovative or not. this principle is in fact enshrined in international law, in particular the trips agreement, where it is stated that patents shall be available in all fields of technology and patent rights enjoyable without discrimination on that basis. there are some amendments which pose less of a problem for the commission and we might therefore accept them. i am thinking especially of certain of the amendments directed at the report which the commission must prepare on the operation of this directive, although i should emphasise that the commission is not prepared to accept that, in this respect, 'anything goes'. anything which imposes unreasonable demands, given the limited resources at the commission's disposal, could not meet with our approval. the need to remain within the scope of the directive should also be borne in mind. some of the amendments proposed are too broad in their effects. that said, i shall make a few brief remarks. firstly to mr rocard, who said that the proposal does not guarantee that there will be no software patenting as such. the proposal lays down a specific hurdle that must be cleared before any invention can be patented. the invention must make a non-obvious technical contribution: this guarantees that non-technical software will never be patented but genuine technical inventions will get the protection they deserve. i also say this to mr maccormick who asked me to ensure the directive is watertight against leakage. this requirement of the technical contribution does so. i hope this will satisfy mr de clercq. my second specific remark is addressed to mrs echerer, who said that if a small part of a problem is patentable then the whole problem is patentable. patents are about solutions to technical problems and a patent has to cover the whole, not just a small part, of the solution to a problem. it is only infringed if the whole solution is used. it does not, therefore, monopolise every separate component part which contributes to the solution. on the matter of smes, which many members mentioned: in so far as smes are users of patents, i wish to stress that nothing becomes patentable that is not patentable now. as smes may be inventors of software, they also need to be protected and would get the protection they deserve under the directive. i say this to mr oreja and mrs thyssen in particular. let me echo the words of mr wuermeling who said: 'whoever opposes this directive must know that the present practice will be continued.' therefore, if you do not want the present practice to continue, please vote in favour of this directive. lastly, the commission would once again like to thank mrs mccarthy for her report . although it is not identical to the commission's original proposal, –it could, subject to the comments i have made, achieve the balance that we require. i thank all members for their attention and you, in particular, mr president. (applause)
- thank you very much, commissioner. the rapporteur would like to add a few words.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. documents received: see minutes. the following shall be considered as a written declaration:
in writing. - the introduction of new provisions on the legal status of political groups is yet another recognition of the latter. in principle, there is nothing to prevent the status of political groups in the european parliament from being further strengthened - but the desire, shown in recent years, to eliminate all forms of national representation in the european parliament, in the exclusive interest of a narrowly partisan representation, is to be deplored. however, let us not go too far in making parliament the home of a future 'government of parties'. the influence of the major political parties in this house is already very (too) large; the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. we have seen worrying abuses here recently, abuses by certain groups which, in particular because of their federalist ideology, occupy a dominant political position. i am thinking here of the dissolution of the tdi group, a political act of extreme gravity when we know that the banning of parties is no longer even a practice in the member states! such a drift must not happen again. i am concerned to see that the proposed text is again considering this liberticidal hypothesis. we must be moderate!
in writing. - austria, using the right of initiative which is still provisionally reserved to the member states in the field of immigration policy, has just put forward a useful proposal: to draw up a list of european countries considered safe from the point of view of respect for human rights, so that they can be entrusted with the processing of asylum applications lodged in a country of the union by persons who have first crossed their territory. this measure seems to be simplifying, common sense, consistent with the need for better cooperation between the countries of the continent in the face of the influx of refugees of all kinds. this austrian initiative, which we supported, did not please the european parliament, which rejected it on various more or less specific legal grounds, for example that this text anticipated a future, broader directive on asylum procedures. the real reason is something else entirely. as can be seen from the explanatory memorandum, the european parliament clings to a narrow view of the geneva convention, based on an absolute 'non-refoulement principle' without nuance or condition. it is this narrow vision that must be challenged today if we are to really tackle the problems of asylum.
in writing. - we voted against the initiative of the republic of austria which advocates a particularly restrictive application of the right of asylum. as for the schmidt report, we do not support its call for 'bringing the solution to the problem of safe third countries'. we believe that the problem is not to draw up a somewhat longer list of states whose decision to grant asylum would be acceptable to the european union. the right of asylum must be unrestricted. and we reject any restrictive application of the geneva convention and the principle of non-refoulement.
in writing. - if the initiative of the republic of austria must be rejected, it is for reasons which are more fundamental than those which are relevant to the recitals of the rapporteur. in substance, the concept of 'safe third states' is contrary to the international obligations arising from the 1951 geneva convention. this is particularly evident in the case of roma fleeing racism and discrimination in countries such as romania and slovakia, which are considered "safe" by the eu. as the rapporteur acknowledges: 'even if a list of safe third countries were to be drawn up, an asylum application cannot be automatically rejected on the grounds that this would be contrary to the geneva convention.' it is already common practice to declare an asylum application to be 'manifestly unfounded'. the list of 'safe countries' will serve as a pretext for further encouragement of expeditious examinations and systematic disposals. the principle of non-refoulement is violated by the project to keep refugees in their regions of origin. it's a pushback that doesn't say its name. in france, the villepin law calls this "internal asylum"! it means preferring refugee camps to refugee shelters. the austrian initiative must be rejected because it effectively authorises the erosion of the right to asylum in europe and anticipates how, in the context of the elaboration of european legislation, the member states intend to abandon the respect for the right to asylum and the geneva convention.
in writing. - we voted against the appointment of jean-claude trichet as president of the european central bank because, during his hearing, he did not show any willingness to make a political change in the face of the near-stagnation in which the heart of the euro area is sinking. instead, he stressed that there was no recession in the strict sense, which is true, and that the euro area's key rates are "the lowest in more than half a century", which is also true. the implicit message he was sending us was that he could not do much more as president of the ecb. he is not entirely wrong: the slowdown in which france and germany are sinking is probably impossible to correct by the instruments of conventional monetary policy, because it is partly caused by the very structure of the single currency, a rigid framework applied uniformly to different economies. in view of this situation, the ecb president may have little room for manoeuvre. but is it not a just punishment of history to trap one of the very people who invented the maastricht system?
in writing. - our negative vote on 'the appointment of jean-claude trichet as president of the european central bank' is addressed primarily to the institution but also to the individual. the european central bank is responsible for applying a monetary and credit policy entirely favourable to the big business of the european union and, therefore, entirely unfavourable to the popular classes. we are against the very function of this institution, whoever is in charge of it. but we didn't want to bail the man out either. before being appointed to his future post, jean-claude trichet was governor of the banque de france for ten years. as such, he is responsible for a 'restructuring' plan under way at the banque de france, a plan which has resulted in the closure of half of the branches and the elimination of more than 2 000 jobs, or more than a quarter of the workforce. a man who takes on such a task deserves no more support than the institution he is about to take over.
in writing. - we voted against the nomination of jean-claude trichet as president of the european central bank because he has been the embodiment for some 15 years of the doctrine of competitive disinflation, which has inspired the neoliberal policies pursued in our country. it was under his influence that wages were blocked to allow financial profits to capture an increasing share of the wealth produced. this policy has stifled growth and encouraged the rise of mass unemployment. we would therefore not like to see this fatal dogmatism transposed to the community level. but we are not making a personal issue of it: we would probably vote against any other candidate, because it is the very conception of the european central bank that we are challenging on two essential points. such an institution should not be given an unnecessarily rigid 2% inflation target which blindly chooses finance over employment. and the ecb should be placed under genuine democratic control which goes beyond the 'operette' democracy of voting full powers to a man who will now be uncontrollable.
in writing. - the appointment of the future president of the european central bank is an act of the utmost importance because, in addition to the personality of the candidate, it is also, and above all, a monetary policy that we are called upon to decide. in this case, while i am obviously pleased that a frenchman will soon become president of the central bank, i cannot at the same time ignore the fact that mr trichet, since he is the one in question, embodies and claims a strict budgetary orthodoxy. mr trichet said it bluntly at his hearing before the economic and monetary affairs committee: against all odds he intends to perpetuate the legacy of mr duisenberg, that is to say, a monetarism as rigid as it is inappropriate. however, this option cannot be approved. at a time when many member states are no longer able to comply with a stability pact whose constraints appear, in the current situation, to be completely out of step with the harsh realities of the economic situation, i cannot support the appointment of a candidate who is clearly suffering from the same disease as his predecessor: autism.
in writing. - i tabled an amendment calling for the rejection of the european commission's proposal on the approximation of measures concerning the security of supply of petroleum products. i do not think that this proposal is an appropriate or effective response to the oil crisis. the increase in the minimum stock level from 90 to 120 days would have been an expensive measure to implement in several states, due to the current insufficiency of storage infrastructure in the union. moreover, the increase in the level of these stocks would not have been sufficiently substantial to allow the union to exert pressure on oil markets vis-à-vis the producing countries. finally, the establishment of public oil storage agencies transferred substantial burdens to the member states, even as the european commission increased its capacity to intervene in the management of these stocks. such an approach, which deprives states of their prerogatives in managing energy supplies, was therefore unacceptable. by rejecting this text, we have sanctioned a false good idea, which was based on solutions that were as simplistic as they were ineffective.
in writing. - despite the displeasure of all kinds of sovereignists, it is more logical to build up energy reserves at the level of the union as a whole than at the level of each of the small and medium-sized states which make up it. but why is it necessary to stock up? according to the report's authors, this is not against any natural cataclysm cutting off supply routes, but "above all to guard against economic dangers arising from the instability of markets". the european union is thus obliged to protect itself against the consequences of the economic system on which its very existence is based. we will therefore not take part in this debate on the worshipers of the market economy, of which we are not a part.
in writing. - we supported the report by timothy kirkhope on the german initiative to strengthen cooperation between member states when measures are taken to remove third-country nationals illegally staying in the union by air. these are useful but relatively technical measures, which mr kirkhope, the former secretary of state for immigration in the last british conservative government, had the greatest difficulty in getting the commission and the european parliament to accept. we have heard from the left-wing benches unlimited statements denouncing "deportations", "inhuman methods" or "collective expulsions". all this has nothing to do with reality, because these measures of removal are obviously regulated by law. in particular, it is not a question of collective expulsions (the expulsion of an entire social group without regard to individuals) but of individual expulsions, controlled by the courts, of persons in an illegal situation. in this respect, the minority view of mr krivine, ms boumediene-thiery and others, who see these expulsions as a 'violation of migrants' rights' and who clearly dream of opening europe's borders to immigration from all over the world, is instructive.
in writing. - we join the minority opinion of the committee on civil liberties and human rights in denouncing this report which proposes to organise the mechanisms for deporting migrants 'illegally staying' more efficiently. the house is asked to further increase the repressive scope of the original initiative by deleting a passage denying transit for expulsion in cases where the deported migrant 'risks inhuman or degrading treatment, torture or death'. the european parliament, in voting on this report, endorses and endorses the policy of most national states which seek to expel from their territory migrants to whom local legislation does not allow the necessary residence permits. we demand, on the contrary, a total halt to deportations, the release of all those who are imprisoned pending deportation and the granting of legal papers to all "undocumented" persons and the right to reside in europe permanently.
in writing. - the text proposed to us, far from being a security measure, is intended to regulate the conditions for the transit of persons who are in an irregular situation on the territory of the union and who are subject to expulsion. the proposal for a directive, which was already withdrawn last april and referred back to committee for reconsideration, is obviously provoking a wave of indignation from the left, the greens and the third world. the reason is simple: it is immoral and inhuman to deport illegal aliens back to their country of origin! in the minority opinion annexed to mr kirkhope's report, they do not hesitate to denounce with horror fortress europe or the mechanisms of deportation which illustrate the cynicism of a racist policy which places the interests of the state above the aspiration of human beings for a better life. we might laugh at this, but in reality we are tired of hearing and hearing again all these speeches full of human rights, these good feelings that today, everywhere in europe, we see the same things: uncontrolled immigration, overwhelmed states that no longer know what to do with their illegal immigrants and have no other solution than to open temporary accommodation centres (which are temporary only in their title). (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - the sinking of the prestige, which caused a major ecological and economic disaster, is a stark reminder of the urgency of making maritime safety a major issue at european and global level. a whole series of measures must be taken quickly to prevent future accidents like the prestige. the first of these measures is the application of and monitoring of compliance with existing community and international legislation. the measures provided for in the two erika packages must be implemented without delay. these agreements can be supplemented and will be more effective if people from the fisheries and aquaculture sectors are involved in the negotiations. this disaster is not, as some people would have us believe, a 'simple' spanish affair. i therefore think it is essential that a temporary committee be set up. it is essential, if we are to avoid such a disaster happening again, to know as objectively as possible the causes and consequences of what has happened here: this is a matter of the credibility of parliament and the dynamic role that europe must play in maritime safety.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr sterckx, which provides a comprehensive overview of the information currently available on the prestige accident and whose proposals are relevant. it is essential that member states transpose the erika legislation into their national law as quickly as possible and ensure that it is complied with. if these rules had been put into effect earlier, the prestige could have been saved from sinking. similarly, the international legislation in force must be strictly respected and monitored. on behalf of the polluter-pays principle, i support the rapporteur's idea of criminal liability for all actors involved, including policy-makers, in maritime disasters. it is essential that all member states ratify the protocol on the fipol complementary fund, which will provide eur 1 billion for victims' compensation from 2004. i regret, however, that the cope fund has been blocked at council level insofar as it would have allowed for accelerated compensation for the victims of the prestige and perhaps other disasters. a high level of compensation for victims of maritime disasters should be ensured through the fipol fund, the cope fund being able to provide a more flexible european contribution.
in writing. - i voted for it. the aim is not to target any particular member state, but to identify the shortcomings in the implementation of the erika i and erika ii packages, to identify the reasons for the delay in transposing the texts and to overcome them. the risk is still great that garbage ships, weapons of mass destruction, will continue to pollute our coasts, destroy our beaches, destroy our fisheries, kill our birds and cripple our economy. we know that these damages cannot be repaired by subsidies. the european union has a relevant legal arsenal in the field of maritime safety. these texts must be transposed, harmonised and fully applied. the procrastination has gotten too much. today, no coastal state can be left out of the loop. that's the point of my vote. finally, there must be a reflection on the possible creation of european coastguards. i'm all for it.
- the report by mr de gucht on the commission communication on the implementation of the single european act (com (89) 0174 - c4-0314/99); since 1999, there have been no reports on maritime safety. the erika packages only partially entered into force on 23 july 2003. we would have liked the european union to have shown the same diligence in fighting 'the sea bandits' as it does in fighting terrorism. today, every day, prestige oil continues to pollute the coastline along the atlantic front and into the channel. and there's still more than 37,500 tons of fuel oil left in the wreck! we supported the principle of a parliamentary committee of inquiry which would shed light on the responsibilities which led to this disaster. but beyond that, we must outlaw the liberal logic which, thanks to the system of complacency, allows the use of garbage ships and the exploitation of seafarers outside any social legislation. we are voting for this report because it strengthens the safety rules by requiring an increase in the number of vessels inspected, training of personnel, unlimited liability in the event of disaster for the oil companies and the whole chain of complacency. but there is no system of control and sanction that makes all that we vote in this house effective.
in writing. - i welcome the decision just taken by this house to set up, as i myself had requested, a temporary committee of the european parliament devoted to maritime safety. this decision shows how important it is for us that this issue, which is of great concern to our fellow citizens - particularly those on the atlantic coast who have been doubly affected by the last two oil spills - be dealt with with all the necessary rigour and continuity at the appropriate levels to avoid a repetition of such disasters. the mandate of this temporary committee would have been perfectly clear and would have appeared to be devoid of political motives, had the oral amendment tabled by the rapporteur not been the subject of a real obstruction by the socialist members. on such an important subject, petty maneuvers should not be a concern. in any event, it is in fact the twin disasters of the erika and the prestige that make it necessary to take stock of the relevance of the measures taken, of the initiatives taken by the states and regions affected by the oil spills and, above all, of the persistent shortcomings in international law concerning ships transiting outside territorial waters, as well as questions of liability and compensation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the creation of a temporary committee because it is clear that we must maintain absolute vigilance in the field of maritime safety in europe, so that the measures we adopt here are effectively and fully applied in the member states. this should be the subject of a temporary committee, which will only be useful if it is working to improve community legislation and to check its application. the prestige disaster has hit our coasts and our people hard. a temporary committee will certainly learn from this tragedy, but it will certainly not learn from it to give lessons to any particular government. this political objective, which was pursued by some left-wing members, has unfortunately contaminated the conclusions of mr sterckx's report. i regret it all the more because after the sinking of the erika, our parliament was distinguished by its non-partisan work. i hope that, out of respect for the victims in spain and france of the prestige oil spill, we will continue our work on maritime safety in a dignified manner.
- mr president, the incantations to budgetary rigor and discipline lead to devastating constraints when it comes to development aid. the promises remain, the deeds are hard to follow: this is what this 2004 budget for development cooperation is all about. i agree with our rapporteur, mrs sanders-ten holte, that any subordination to the foreign policy line can only accentuate this phenomenon. indeed, how can we believe that the objective of eradicating poverty by 2015 will be achieved when, as just one example, the financial commitments to the countries - middle east, latin america, asia, acp - which are under the oecd development assistance committee have not been honoured by the commission for the health and education sectors in particular? doubt is allowed. the stated desire to achieve the millennium development goals still fails to achieve much in the way of the sums allocated. how can we not agree with the commission's demand that it also pay attention to the rights of the most vulnerable people and that it allocate a specific budget line where necessary, for example, to children's rights? any reduction or financial pressure on the fundamental elements of community policy, such as human rights or the duty to assist the weakest, would be tantamount to sending a very bad signal to the peoples who are already largely excluded from the world, victims - no more and no less - of a globalisation which is more akin to the law of the jungle than to growth and the equitable distribution of wealth. the developing countries are expecting a different ambition from the european union, as i think the reactions at the last wto conference in cancun have shown. finally, with regard to development aid, i remain convinced that without a serious revision of the financial perspective, the pressure on this heading will become unbearable. the proposals for reconstruction in iraq also call for an expansion of overall resources, at least in the long term, so as not to have to draw on the meagre sums of development aid. however, i agree with mr poos that the announcement of such a financial commitment cannot in any case precede the adoption by europe of an independent policy which is indispensable for the sovereignty of the iraqi people and the role of the un. as regards the amendments, i approve those which can promote an annual evaluation of the results and which provide for a joint dialogue - commission, parliament, council - on the means to be used to achieve the objectives. in the same spirit, i believe that the widest participation of all civil society actors must be encouraged at all levels for truly democratic and effective development cooperation. finally, i will support my group's proposal to create a specific line of aid for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the territories administered by the palestinian authority. the destruction by the israeli army of infrastructure financed by the eu or the member states, amounting to almost €40 million, is a criminal act. the living conditions of the palestinian population have deteriorated considerably in the last period. we know that the commission delegation on the ground is doing a remarkable job in difficult conditions, but to be an active member of the quartet as the speeches suggest, it would be good if the union would give its budget lines to its words.
- mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, as regards the regional transport and tourism policy, i must say that we are quite concerned, if not disappointed, by the draft budget. the problem has been clearly stated: it is extremely worrying to see budget lines for key policies reduced so drastically by the council. i have to tell you that we are concerned because this is a permanent process. whatever the decision-making procedures, whatever the reports which show the development needs of the european union, when it comes to the budget, systematically for years now, the council has cut back in a startling way on the programmes concerned, which are nevertheless among the first to promote development in the european union. time passes and nothing changes in the matter. that is why we are concerned and why the commission unanimously decided to restore, by amendments, the level of expenditure envisaged in the preliminary draft budget. i would like to return briefly to the question of the structural funds and thank commissioner barnier for all the explanations he has given us. we can see that the simplification measures are bearing fruit. we also see a qualitative and quantitative improvement in the management of these funds. in short, we want the budget of the european union to take account of the reality of expenditure, which will avoid the commission having to present additional draft budgets, which would be detrimental to the smooth implementation of these funds, which are of paramount importance.
- madam president, mr president-in-office, madam commissioner, the malice and the bizarre nature of the time-table would have me return to the problems of transport and agencies. that said, i fully agree with what my colleague mr hatzidakis said, namely that the lines as they were set out in the preliminary draft budget must be maintained, because there are no savings to be made at the moment on these policies. i take the ball in the air, commissioner, to react to the problem of the information policy of the citizens of the european union. this will be one of the most important topics in the years to come. you may know that many of us have tabled amendments to restore the lines as they were last year. however, it is above all important that all institutional communication should be as close as possible to ordinary citizens. the biggest concern i have about the current communication policy is that we don't have the tools to reach those who are going to vote. the lack of awareness on the part of the public of the existing mechanisms and the institutions to be set up is quite dramatic. the means, commissioner, you have them, but let us make sure that they reach the heart of our society today. this would be a very great step forward for the democratic future of our union.
- thank you, mr wynn. the debate is closed.
- the agenda calls for the commission's statement on the situation of the alstom group. before that, i give the floor to mr harbour on a point of order.
- mr. harbour, thank you for asking. but the decision has already been taken: you will not have the opportunity to ask the commissioner any questions after his statement. however, there are speakers who are registered and will no doubt ask the commissioner questions as part of their talks.
commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the european parliament for inviting me to this evening. i always welcome the opportunities offered to me to discuss with parliament the competition policy issues on which i have the honour of appearing periodically before the economic and monetary affairs committee of the parliament. the subject of your invitation this evening, madam president, is a specific matter under consideration and on which i must therefore exercise a certain discretion. i am at your disposal to explain any questions that may arise. what has the european commission done so far in the alstom case? she made a decision and she decided not to make another one. the decision to initiate the examination procedure concerns the support measures adopted by the french state on 2 august, in the framework of an agreement with alstom and a number of banks, and subsequently notified to the commission. this decision to open the procedure was taken by the college on 17 september. she's just like everyone else. i now come to the decision not taken. it concerns a specific element of the support plan decided upon and announced on 2 august but not yet implemented: a state participation in alstom's capital. the commission could not accept an immediate participation by the french republic in alstom's capital because this type of measure, unlike other liquidity injections, was liable to have irreversible consequences on the markets on which the alstom group is active. on 17 september, the commission therefore found that the conditions were met for the french authorities to be ordered not to implement a state participation in alstom's own funds. however, the commission wished to give france one last opportunity before proceeding with the injunction. to this end, it empowered me to adopt and implement, by 22 september at the latest and in agreement with president prodi, an injunction to suspend certain aids, unless the french authorities publicly undertook to refrain from taking measures involving automatically and irreversibly a state participation in the capital of the alstom group, without the prior approval of the commission required by community state aid rules. following successful and rapid contacts with the french authorities, i was able to note yesterday that they had agreed to amend the support plan in a way that satisfies the condition set by the commission. the french state will therefore not immediately become a shareholder in alstom and will not adopt measures which could constitute capital, that is to say, structural measures which the commission cannot accept without prejudice to the conclusions of the competition inquiry which it will carry out. the state's participation in the capital increase will be replaced by a subordinated fixed-term security redeemable in shares. this is a liquidity measure which can be converted into equity only if the commission decides that the state's participation in the capital increase does not raise competition concerns on the relevant markets. since france had agreed to renounce its automatic participation in alstom's capital and had undertaken to no longer put the commission in the position of having reached a fait accompli, there was no longer any need for me to exercise the power of ordering suspension conferred on me by the college of commissioners. that is the commission's failure to take a decision. the commission welcomes the constructive attitude of the french authorities and, in particular, i would like to stress this, of mr francis mer, minister for the economy, finance and industry. it was our duty to prevent the conditions of competition on the market from being changed immediately and irreversibly in favour of alstom before the commission had even begun to examine the impact of the aid on the markets concerned. the amendments made are likely to result in an increase in the overall volume of aid to be granted. this fact demonstrates the multiplier effect of a capital increase and its irreversible effects. in other words, it would never have been possible to restore the status quo. i would point out that the amount of aid will also be a key element which will be taken into consideration by the commission when examining the merits of the case. of course, the fact that it is not necessary to exercise the stay order does not mean, at this stage, that the commission has approved the aid. the examination of the measures as a whole will now come into play. the examination of the merits will be able to be initiated in a constructive spirit and as rapidly as possible in view of the complexity of the case. the aim is to allow for a restructuring of the company which at the same time preserves the proper functioning of the internal market, the only guarantee of sustainable employment. during this examination, the commission will verify the long-term viability of the company and the proportionality between the amount of aid granted and the counterparts which france will be prepared to accept in order to preserve the conditions of competition on the markets in question. i would like to emphasize, ladies and gentlemen, that this is by no means a position of principle on the part of the commission concerning the rules governing the ownership of undertakings in the member states. you know as well as i do that the treaty provides for and therefore requires the strictest neutrality in the matter of public or private ownership of companies. i am therefore well aware that the purpose of the suspension was not to prevent the entry of the french state as such into alstom's capital. the commission took the view that the aim was to prevent aid measures from having irreversible consequences on the markets concerned without the commission's prior approval, in breach of the treaty rules on state aid. please do not say that the commission is against public ownership of companies. as i have always stressed, it is not the commission which asks a member state to open up the capital of public undertakings as the french government does, for example for électricité de france. these are choices which are entirely up to the member state concerned. what the commission has a duty to enforce, under the treaties, is that companies, public or private, comply with the competition rules. i would like to emphasize the quality of the cooperation inspired by a spirit of constructive trust - as i have already said - with the french government and, in particular, the minister for the sea. in addition, some of the reactions and comments from french political and economic circles heard in recent days will merit a more detailed analysis. i understand the union's feelings. i am well aware of the importance of the alstom group in the european industrial and social fabric. i do not understand the reference made here and there in the french debate in recent days to the notarial behaviour and the alleged lack of political awareness on the part of the european commission. is there not a political value in safeguarding a single market without distortion of competition, a necessary, if not sufficient, but necessary, element of a social market economy? is it not politically expedient to prevent a state from overstepping the rules of the single market, which benefits european businesses themselves and the opportunities for growth, including employment? is it not politically necessary to give confidence to the whole of europe by showing the citizens of the small and future member states that the commission, in its role as guardian of the treaty, is not hard on the small and weak on the big?
- madam president, commissioner, on our initiative, alstom's trade union representatives have been received several times in the european parliament. as early as 1999, they had denounced serious management errors by the group's management. on 17 february 2000, we voted in this house a resolution warning of the risks to the future of the company. some voices were raised to denounce, in the name of the sacrosanct principles of liberalism, this incongruous and necessarily incompetent interference of politics in the economy. an experience to be seriously pondered. the trade union coordinator of alstom europe, mrs francine blanche, told me last night that the employees were naturally delighted that the commission had approved the rescue plan in principle. however, they remember the many warnings from their elected officials which were never heeded at any level. they are not ready to accept being the victims of this rescue. mrs blanche informed me that since his appointment in january this year, the new chairman of the group, mr kron, had spent two hours in total discussing the matter with the european employee representatives. this arrogance is no longer bearable. the need is immense and the demand for exercising rights as employees is strong. already, commissioner, the european trade union coordination of alstom is asking to be received, listened to and heard by the commission. by then, the commission will have studied the plan in detail and will be able to propose savings measures which do not result in job losses. this is for now. moreover, this enormous case puts major issues on the agenda of the debate on the future of the union. i will mention three. firstly, the social dialogue, or rather the new and indispensable rights of employees. the timid and dusty directives on information and consultation of workers and on the european works council must be revised. we must introduce genuine rights, including the right to suspend a restructuring plan in order to carry out a counter-expertise and compare the options available. secondly, there is no european industrial policy. there is only the hunt for state aid in the name of competition rules. in the present case, however, contrary to what was expected, if there had been no state aid, global economic competition would have been severely distorted with, on the one hand, what would have remained of european industries in the strategic energy and railway sectors and, on the other hand, american giants such as general electric or japanese ones such as mitsubishi. thirdly, the democratic functioning of the union requires that the discretionary power granted to the commission in competition matters be reviewed. the social partners, the national parliaments and, of course, the european parliament must have a say in the criteria to be respected, the objectives to be set and the controls to be carried out. what legitimacy would the commission's initial threat to reject the rescue plan for a strategic company with 118,000 employees have had in the eyes of our fellow citizens? the alstom case is a powerful illustration of the key political choices to which the citizens' debate on the constitution for europe will lead us. all of this was worth adding to our agenda.
- madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: the alstom case in its european dimension is first and foremost a matter of form. the commission was quite right to punish the french government for its arrogance and disregard for the common rules in this case. this incident is part of a long series. the way in which mr raffarin's government has openly flouted the provisions of the stability pact, of which president chirac was one of the initiators and unconditional supporters, will make it difficult to renegotiate this pact, which mr prodi himself calls stupid. another example is the disregard of the birds and natura 2000 directives by mr raffarin's government, which culminates in the poitevin swamp massacre. the icing on the cake: mr raffarin's statement that the legal requirements of the european union's executive are the same as those of any foreign office. for this shameful statement, i would like, on behalf of the vast majority of french people who are aware that europe is not a foreign country but our common home, to apologize to the commission. today we have reached an agreement and i am very pleased about that. it saves alstom from imminent bankruptcy, for which its management and that of abb are fully responsible despite the warnings of its trade unionists. it gives the french government and the commission time to negotiate a formal final solution. that said, i would like to say a few words on the subject, mr commissioner. you know that our green group has loyally supported your efforts to defend consumers against the abusive practices of monopolies; my 2001 competition report is a good example of this. i had, however, made some observations which we had discussed in depth face to face, not only as commissioner to member of parliament but also as economist to economist. the alstom case gives me another opportunity to say this to you. consumer protection consists in ensuring that a product or service is available before it is even concerned with its price, i.e. it consists in implementing an industrial policy. alstom's demise, which would have led to the downfall of asean brown boveri, would have dramatically reduced europe's supply of electric turbines and high-speed trains, at a time when the climate crisis and the kyoto agreement call for huge investments in both these areas. secondly, what is true of network infrastructures, where economic theory shows that monopoly and public aid are sometimes preferable to pure competition, is often ipso facto true of the oligopoly responsible for building and maintaining them. finally, the brutality with which the raffarin government was removed was perceived by the workers and the inhabitants of the regions concerned as brutality and inhumanity directed against themselves by a europe once again experienced as a foreign and hostile institution. the raffarin government's position is to privatise profits and nationalise losses, and i do not agree with it, and neither do you. be able to show that the european competition policy aims to curb excess profits and to promote the supply of public goods.
- madam president, commissioner, the feeling that the french people had was that, beyond a debate on the aid that the french government could decide to provide or not, there was a problem of ego between mr mer and yourself. and i'll say right away that we don't care about this. we're not here to support you, nor mr. mer. the question we are asked is simple: does europe, the european union - and more particularly the commission of which you are a member - have a clear industrial policy? and we're supposed to trust you blindly? the answer is no. i don't see a clear industrial policy. as for trusting you blindly, the decisions taken by the european court, which overturned three of your decisions, show that this is not possible. i do not doubt your good will, but i doubt the efficiency and correctness of the decisions you take. in any case, this case has shown that the european commission, whatever its pretensions, when faced with a problem of exceptional gravity concerning a country, cannot do anything. i am prepared to admit that the french government has misrepresented the facts. but i would say that the way you have reacted yourself has not been helpful to alstom. finally, it seems that everyone has picked up some reason. i would add in conclusion that mr lipietz is wrong about the speaker. if he wants to criticise the french government, he should not do so here, because this house has no business judging the french government: so come and do so in other places, in our own country, where people can answer you. (applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, commissioner, the days we have just had with the alstom case have made me think a little of the story of the man who was asked why he was hitting himself on the head with a hammer and who replied: because it is so good when it stops. of course, mr monti, you have won the iron hand you have imposed on the french government. you have even ridiculed it, let us admit it, and this government which refuted the accounting equations on friday spent the weekend establishing many, many more, with the support of all the banks in the square. so you won, but at what cost? all europeans now know that from brussels we can sacrifice 120,000 unemployed people, that we can ruin industrial sites as prestigious as belfort or st nazaire, just to get revenge - mr pasqua was referring to the moment - the wounded pride of a european commissioner. you are playing with the people, mr monti, to satisfy both dogmas of no great interest and your own vanity. you are not a notary, mr monti - notary being a compliment, because many of them work in the interests of families and their assets - you are only a bailiff, the one who comes to seize this social market economy which can be summed up, in fact, as follows: the market makes the economy of the social. mr monti, we french already owe you the abandonment of péchinet. you didn't give us permission to buy alcan, when the opposite was possible. we could have ruined schneider and legrand because of you. do you not sometimes think that you are to european industry a little what torquemada was to catholic religion, that is to say that you prosecute as a grand inquisitor the aids of the state as this good torquemada, if i may say, prosecuted heresies, sodomites, and a little the jews, let's say.
- madam president, following the debate in france on the budgetary austerity pact, the arrogant and dogmatic handling of the alstom case by the european commission is emblematic and full of lessons for the future. it is a bitter foretaste of the future europe of feudal states. the french, surprised and shocked, suddenly discover the european reality: a technocratic and imperialist octopus that puts accounting balances before men and community law before business. the commission is not preparing a europe of industry, growth and employment, but a vast industrial wasteland, a europe of relocations, unemployment, economic regression and social precariousness. france, which has gone from independence to dependence, from freedom to submission, is reduced to sending its government to the lords and masters of brussels to ask for new conditions and new deadlines: a pitiful and humiliating spectacle! finally, the agreement reached at the last minute will not hide for long the vital need for the french people to regain their freedoms, their economic and social independence, their political sovereignty and, quite simply, their dignity.
- madam president, the great and beautiful alstom company has been nearly murdered twice: first by the management errors of its previous president, and second by the rigidity of the commission. the commission has just told us that it is merely applying the treaty, and i would like to point out to mr monti that this is true. the treaty itself poses a problem, as its drafting dates back to the 'competition' part of the treaty of rome. it shows that competition is now seen too narrowly, too much in the context of the internal market, whereas a more global view of strategic interests, national and european, should be taken in a competition that is now global. that is why, in the alstom case, the french government finally advocated a more balanced, more comprehensive position than that of the commission. it thus demonstrated that a nation state, democratically accountable, was perfectly capable of assessing whether public aid should be granted to preserve, in exceptional cases, industries of strategic importance to the economic independence or cultural identity of the country. it would have been better if the commission had helped and collaborated more closely with this objective. a future reform of the treaty should take this into account. for the time being, we regret the sword of damocles that commissioner monti, in his recent statements, continues to use to impose his views on the alstom rescue plan, and we regret the absolute power of the commission in this area. here again, a reform of the treaty would be needed in the near future.
- madam president, commissioner, we have welcomed with relief, even if it is only a suspension, the decision of the brussels commission to leave all its chances to the alstom rescue plan. let us not hide behind the good reasons of both sides: this dossier will be a first-rate political test for the european union in relation to public opinion. this case, which concerns one of europe's industrial and technological jewels and on which the future of 118 000 employees worldwide depends, is a concrete test of the european project and the commission. we do not underestimate, commissioner, how much the french government, which is in a state of disarray and is making a lot of mistakes and accidents, has put us in front of a fait accompli by making public a rescue plan before negotiating it, as the treaties require, with your services. however, mr mer should know that at other times, on the basis of the same treaties, another french government, that of mr fabius, had succeeded, without any anecdote or vain polemics with brussels, in saving the french steel industry in otherwise difficult circumstances. we are, believe me, the first to be distressed, we french parliamentarians, to see the prime minister of our country kneeling here to beg you to accept these record deficits and, at the same time, to accept lowering vat for his elective clientele of restaurateurs. it is true that there is something similar in the attitude of a country like france towards the european union, something as unilateral and arrogant as mr bush's attitude towards the un. but he needs - alas! - a diversion and scapegoats. he needs the old trick of making false victories over the brussels bureaucracy. however, commissioner, this episode, which heralds other episodes in the face of the worrying movements of deindustrialization and relocation affecting our finest industrial assets, must make us europeans question the place and status of competition policy within the union. it is becoming increasingly shocking and unsustainable that competition policy, in a context very different from the treaties which established it in 1986 and 1992, remains the unbridgeable horizon of european union policy in general. many, too many and increasingly credible voices are being raised to the effect that europe is more concerned about the ruthless law of the market than the most liberal states in the world, starting with the united states of america. today, faced with the inexorable assertion of the new great powers of tomorrow, europe needs a different angle and a different court than that of unbridled competition. it needs an industrial policy which protects its national champions, safeguards its invaluable technical heritage and its precious know-how. it needs a social policy that is concerned with maintaining the standard of living and employment of the greatest number of europeans. this is first and foremost an imperative social issue, but it is also europe's competitiveness in the wider world that is at stake. finally, how can we make our people understand that an administration over which no parliamentary control is exercised is taking such an important decision on its own, a decision which today is awaiting thousands of working families with breathlessness and stomach ache? beyond the decision you will take, which we cannot imagine will be negative again, what is at stake is the meaning of the european project and the architecture of the current treaties. in this connection, it is to be hoped that the next intergovernmental conference will, if possible, take up the need to promote, alongside and on an equal footing with competition policy, a social policy on employment and an industrial policy which will enable the union to defend its economic and social interests in the global world which is now ours.
- thank you, mr cashman. the debate is closed. the sitting is adjourned until 9 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 8.50 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
mr president, we are generally satisfied with mr whitehead's report and with the fact that the council has generally accepted our amendments. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. the definition of these bodies should be strict. the report goes along with this, while ensuring the involvement of a panel of organisations. of course, organisations with the necessary technical expertise must be selected, but the independence of the representative bodies must also be ensured. it is therefore imperative that lobbyists - industrial, commercial, professional or otherwise - do not see these bodies as a means of indirectly influencing the policy of the union. on the other hand, we must maintain our relations with the cooperatives whose charter takes account of the interests of the consumer. relations with consumer protection organisations must be developed as closely as possible to the citizen. we cannot therefore simply give priority to relations with community or national organisations and offer only support to bodies with a regional dimension: they must have real representation in the consumer committee and the corresponding financial support. the committee will also ensure even wider representation of civil society. the extension of the area of competence is important. the food sector organisations are now joined by protection organisations in the service sectors and more broadly in the non-food sectors. access to information is an essential guarantee of consumer protection. this is why we have demanded and obtained easily accessible public databases. citizens must be able to know the exact history of products, their origin, their production methods, etc. this is achieved, among other things, by improving labelling, which is an effective means of ensuring consumer information. but we have to go further. if we want to ensure that safe products are placed on the market, we must no longer simply inform people about the risks but organise risk reduction. this is only possible by developing comparative evaluations focused on sustainable and responsible production and consumption: this is the real consumer protection policy.
- mr president, commissioner, our colleague andersson's report emphasizes the need to take account of the poverty of the many pensioners, or the inequalities between men and women in regard to pensions. it advocates minimum pensions with a guarantee of an adequate level, and an increase in the level of employment for women in the context of equal opportunities. i agree with my group on these points in the report. it even indicates that it is concerned to ensure a balance between social concerns and financial imperatives. unfortunately, this commitment is contradictory and leads the rapporteur, in the name of financial criteria, to call into question the basic social acquis. the vote in committee was not unanimous. we did not vote for this report in the committee because it supports the commission's proposal to raise the retirement age. this is part of the liberal approach which has been advocated for several european councils for more flexibility and longer working hours. we are opposed to this type of reform which imposes a lengthening of the time limit and which does not solve the question of employment in any way. the report claims that the states have taken steps in the right direction, that is, in the direction of enlargement. the majority of employees in france, austria and germany have expressed their rejection of this extension of working time and of pensions by capitalisation. would we want to settle the european debate on pensions without the citizens? we are tabled amendments with my group which attempt to take account of these aspirations. with these amendments we are of course opposing the raising of the legal retirement age and the extension of contributions. we are also opposed to the capitalisation pension, which in no way guarantees income and dismantles the principle of solidarity in the distribution systems. we propose that the burden of work and dependent children be taken into account in the calculation of contributions. finally, we propose to study new forms of financing of statutory pension schemes. the argument of increasing longevity is used to introduce the system by capitalisation; it does not adequately disguise the financial appetites of multinational corporations for this option. other, more supportive and sustainable ways of addressing the issue of long-term financing are possible. we propose, for example, to extend social security contributions to all financial incomes with a modulation according to whether or not firms are job creators. these do not seem to me to be entirely irresponsible proposals. in conclusion, i would say that in the face of the challenge to the choices made by the heads of state and government in europe, it is now a matter of listening to the demands and not going against the tide, otherwise european citizens will drift further and further away from the union.
mr president, the proposals in this report merely reflect the retrograde policy pursued by all the member states of the european union in the field of pensions. by seeking to raise the actual retirement age, by wishing to extend the working life, and even by proposing to replace retirement with the distribution of pensions by pension funds, the rapporteur justifies and harmonises all the attacks on employees. the rapporteur is cynical in observing that the increase in the number of pensioners and their longevity will put considerable pressure on pension schemes financed by distributions. should we therefore wish for a shorter life expectancy and fewer retirements to save money? if the fruits of productivity were distributed differently, by favouring the big business and the richest a little less to allow workers who have spent their lives enriching them to age with dignity, there would be no problem in providing a decent pension for a growing number of pensioners. but your economy is not designed to meet the needs of the majority as best it can, but to enrich the minority more effectively.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is my task this evening to report very simply on the unanimous votes of the itre committee, on my report for an opinion and on all my amendments, except one, to the council's common position of 3 april 2003. before reaching this agreement, as everyone has said, the council took a long time, since the commission's initial proposal dates from 1997 and our colleague pat cox's report from 1999. nevertheless, we have agreed to play the game of urgency in the clear interest of the general european interest. despite our dissatisfaction and mine, i proposed amendments as rapporteur - in order not to break the council's agreement - which were intended solely to improve the agreement. for me and for us, the council's agreement, although it departs from the commission's proposal of 1997 and from the european parliament's vote of 1999, remains a first step towards a common framework for taxation in europe. the amendments adopted unanimously improve it by providing for time limits, exceptions, so that these exceptions do not become rules, by specifying the units of measurement and by strengthening the political signal in favour of biofuels. i therefore hope, ladies and gentlemen, that tomorrow, when the plenary votes on my colleague mr jonckheer's report, it will confirm an agreement which is today, admittedly, minimalist, by inscribing it in a perspective of evolution in the service of the environment in europe.
- mr president, the new directive on investment services aims to regulate competition between three major structures, the stock exchanges, the internet and the companies that do business internationally. their competition for processing transactions will intensify in the context of the european financial market which is becoming more integrated. it is well known that the city of london, which is also an aircraft carrier for the american investment banks, has a strong lead in terms of internationalisation. other companies such as deutsche bank or abn-amro are entering the business with ambitious business plans. i observe that in carrying out our task as legislators we have singularly lacked a sound economic analysis to clarify the nature of the competition involved and its implications. do we want, for example, the small european cities from the south to the east to be run by a few global players from london? we are here to account for the general interest and not the interests of any particular country. this is why we have supported two main principles: quality of information and fair competition. internalisation firms capture masses of resources, but they do not form the market. they manipulate him, but they need him. pre-trade transparency is therefore crucial for the quality of price formation, in particular to prevent volatility, speculation and insider dealing. the commission proposal applied this principle of pre-trade transparency which mrs villiers initially wanted to remove. then she accepted it. she has shown great professionalism, i must say. it has moved but a large number of traps and mines have been voted in the commission on its initiative, which drain much of the substance of this requirement of transparency and create legal uncertainty. this concerns the definition of the firms carrying out the internalisation, the obligations, the size of the orders, the exemption for eligible counterparties and the concept of price improvement. the report as it stands proposes less regulation than the united states has. that is why we have asked for a number of separate votes to remove the wording which we consider harmful, and our aim is not to reach a first reading conclusion at any cost, or simply to seek a compromise between interests, but to provide a resolution which really serves the general interest.
- mr president, the basis of this report was a clash. there was a difference between two philosophies. the first was to consider that investment firms - firms which practice internalisation - should be allowed to establish a strictly bilateral relationship with their clients, which had the disadvantage of not allowing those clients to benefit from the best possible price on the market, or even to know that best price, or even simply to ensure price formation, which can only result from a general confrontation of supply and demand. the second philosophy, that of regulated markets, was that consumer protection consisted in placing all offers and requests in competition on a single and transparent market, so that customers could know the price and obtain the best possible price. were these two philosophies compatible? yes, provided that the policies of investment companies are subject to common rules. the commission's text was very satisfactory on this point. i am not sure, unlike mr bolkestein, that mrs villiers' report is a significant improvement on your original text. but we can live with this compromise, because it is, as has been pointed out here, relatively satisfactory. it enables us to stand up for true principles and to act. two reservations to this, however. first, the question of price improvement. it is not a question of whether the customer has the best price. of course he has to have the best price! what is at issue in price improvement is the possibility for investment firms to charge a price different from the one they display and thus prevent the market from contributing to the formation of fair prices. secondly, we cannot accept a portfolio transaction which, in order to remove a transaction from the directive, involves the addition of securities of different types which have no relation to each other. with these two essential reservations, on which some of us will vote differently from what is proposed, we consider mrs villiers' report to be satisfactory and i would gladly congratulate the rapporteur if i had the feeling - and this is a reservation - that she had adopted, throughout the negotiations between the groups, a completely loyal attitude.
- mr president, everyone greets the rapporteur, so i do too, and i measure the distance travelled between what she called the 'prodi amendment' and the text on the table today, even though extra-continental influences weighed heavily in our discussion. the objectives of the directive are well known to all of us: to put the financial sector at the service of the best possible allocation of the financing resources of our economy. i believe that the text we have drawn up is awaited by all operators on this basis. i have a few more important observations to make. to protect lay investors, financial firms need to take the trouble to check their knowledge and resources. execution only is not a continental practice. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to impose a tax on the use of the euro. for competition to be effective, information must be available to all players. transparency is therefore essential. there should be no exception to pre-negotiation transparency and i can accept that it does not concern limit orders and is restricted to standard size orders, but it seems to me that the possibility of price improvement, which mr jean-louis bourlanges has already mentioned, is an extremely worrying element. finally, it seems to me that in the vote on thursday we should try to restore what was the position of our parliament on the 'delivery' regulation, that is to say, to ask the commission to draw up a directive on this point.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the apocalypse of st. john, the number of the damned is 666. well, in our draft constitution, it is 473, part four, article 7, paragraph 3. it is the revision clause, or rather the perpetuity clause, since it will now require double unanimity at the igc and at the level of ratification to change the slightest comma. it's like the impossible is etched in the marble. i would also point out that this article is not covered by the consensus, since in the urgency of the last few days it was not clearly debated in the convention's plenary. is this conventional text a treaty or a constitution? in a treaty, the terms are amended by the unanimous consent of the contracting parties. in a constitution, these terms are changed by a qualified or even overqualified majority, but never by unanimity. so if we want a constitution, we will certainly have to change and find a new clause so that we can evolve this thing, for example through a bridge clause of which our draft constitution is already very rich. our rapporteurs themselves, although the report on this point is terribly weak, say that destruction is possible if we do not change things. we have no right to the future of others. article 4.7.3 should therefore be amended.
- i believe that we are experiencing a real crisis of confidence at european level. i want to see proof of this in the massive and frank rejection of the euro by the swedes, the bitter defeat of commissioner lamy in cancun, the rather ridiculous standoff between the commission in brussels and france, both on the stability pact and on the alstom case. the only thing that remains in the european union's stores is this draft constitution, which will now be submitted to the states. personally, i would not take too much position between the choices of parliament, the commission or even the states, because it seems to me that the problem is not between the european institutions, it is between these european institutions and the european peoples. that is why it seems to me essential, and i regret that mr tsatsos' report does not make a much more frank reference to it, that this constitution, this draft, be put to a referendum in all european countries at the same time as the european elections. because think about that choice! if it is a constitution, it needs a referendum and if there is no referendum, it will not be a constitution.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. everyone is taking a stand, the negotiation is taking shape. so, there are two solutions: either we move nothing or we move everything. in the face of the prospect of a possible reopening of negotiations, everyone hopes to improve everything and risks spoiling everything. i understand that in this role-play some people, including in this house, are willing to use god to get more on other subjects. i leave that to them and i will not share this approach to the organization of our earthly life. everyone comes here with their 10% to change; so i have my 10% to change too. i would like to see more qualified majority votes in the social and tax fields, which would be the only way to break with tax havens and dumping. i would also like to see real coordination of economic policies and majority decisions in the field of foreign policy. but perhaps there is another way of approaching this negotiation, mr president-in-office, and i suggest that you try it. what are we holding on to? what are we not willing to give up? well, i would like to list five points for you. the first is that i think it is essential to maintain the possibility for countries that will engage in enhanced cooperation to use the bridge clause - it is a technical point but it is important. secondly, the status of the charter. we could do better, but i don't think you'll do much better, so don't touch it. the third point is the question of god. god was left out of the constitution. unlike mr elmar brok, i want it to remain in its place, that is, outside the constitution. fourthly, the legal basis for public services is a key point on which i would like no retreat. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it seems to me that from this point of view the balance we have achieved, somewhat to the contrary, in article 3 on the objectives of the union is reasonable. so i propose that we leave god and price stability out of this. i wish you courage. if you want to succeed, mr president-in-office, i would advise you to be transparent. when you make public the proposals of each other, you will have more public support than with the small machinations between representatives of the heads of state and government.
in writing. - the european parliament, like valéry giscard d'estaing, would like the next intergovernmental conference to accept the draft convention almost as it stands, on the grounds that it would have openly debated all possible proposals and that its conclusions would reflect the political will of the citizens. this claim appears highly questionable. as i stated in the minority opinion attached to the gil-robles-tsatsos report, the convention was in reality a think tank formed by the council, which was not representative, had no democratic decision-making mandate, and moreover exceeded the terms of its mission letter since, as everyone now acknowledges, it was never asked to draft a constitution. therefore, it is perfectly legitimate that most governments express the wish to hold a 'genuine igc', i.e. one that not only holds a real discussion, but also returns to the real mandate of origin: how to fill the democratic deficit? the supranational proposals of the convention would only widen it further. on the contrary, to make it disappear, the european construction must be better anchored in national democracies. this is the task which the national governments, as genuine representatives of their peoples, must give themselves in the igc.
- mr president, the time has come to put to the vote the report by mr gil-robles and mr tsatsos. i think it is important that we can do this. but i want to take this opportunity to congratulate mrs villiers, not so much as rapporteur on the investment services directive as as a london elected official. we closed the debate on his report last night. the consistency of our work, to which my group attaches enormous importance, would have wanted us to see this now. however, this parliament will not vote on this report until tomorrow, because today the british liberals are in brighton, while tomorrow the french socialists will be in limoges.
in writing. - this text tries to drown, under a bunch of empty phrases, the differences between the middle powers of the european union, one of which was completely behind the united states in participating in the invasion of iraq, while others were more cautious. it is true that the contradictions between their respective policies are tending to diminish because, in the face of the difficulties of the occupation, the united states needs additional forces on the ground, something that the countries of the european union are increasingly willing to grant them on the condition that this is done under the auspices of the un. we, on the other hand, refuse to support, even after the fact, an imperialist war of aggression, just as we refuse to support the occupation, even if it is carried out under the cover of the united nations. no man from the european union should go to secure the interests of the great imperialist powers in iraq! down with imperialist war and occupation!
in writing. - while i am one of those who regret that for 'political reasons' the resolution does not refer to the causes and reasons for the current crisis in iraq, i cannot deny my broad agreement with the proposals contained in the resolution which has been submitted to us with a view to overcoming this crisis. supporting them does not, of course, imply supporting the anglo-american war - quite the contrary! the proposals call for the un to play a major and central role in ensuring that a democratic iraq regains its independence as soon as possible. that's why most of them get my approval!
in writing. - the committee on culture recalls, in its succinct justification, that the patent gives its holder the right to prevent others from making commercial use of his invention. however, it is well known that this right is rarely used by the inventor himself, but is often used by large companies, which have the financial means to buy patents and build up large portfolios enabling them to market certain inventions that benefit them, while blocking the development of others. patents serve little or no interest of the inventors. but they do give additional resources to large industrial or commercial groups. they do not protect "intellectual property" but the commercial monopoly. as we are against patents, and not just in the field of computer science, we rejected the proposal in the mccarthy report.
in writing. - the discussion on software patentability is very controversial, even those who support the principle of software patentability and claim to pursue the same objective contradict each other. the rapporteur refers to patent applications exceeding one hundred thousand, whereas commissioner bolkestein believes that, in the end, there are not so many applications. the ambiguity will not be removed by the adoption of the text, which will, on the contrary, be a source of new uncertainties and abuses for the benefit of the strongest players in a market as particular as it is important in economic terms and in terms of the dissemination of knowledge. in his speech, commissioner bolkestein revealed that, through the community procedure for drawing up a directive, the european parliament can participate in the decision, unlike an intergovernmental procedure for revising the european patent convention. this argument seems to have been decisive in persuading the majority of this house to adopt a directive which it considers to be unsatisfactory. the edd group's cpnt members supported the amendments of the committee on culture which provide the necessary clarifications, but not the overall initiative which they proposed to reject by amendment. they cannot be satisfied with this procedural carrot which, in the end, may lead to the adoption of a wrong text, which is also subject to a risky interpretation. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - the strong mobilisation of users, inventors and innovators in the field of information technology has made people aware of the seriousness of the european commission's projects in this field. some progress has been made and has been reflected in amendments, but the stubbornness of commissioner bolkestein and the weight of the lobbies in favour of the big economic empires make the final result too uncertain and potentially dangerous. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. - after a showdown backed by a citizen's mobilization against software patenting, the european parliament voted in favour of the report. i voted against the directive. this project is useless; it has no justification because it was not requested by anyone, except the multinationals who want to keep their monopoly! under the pretext of preserving the 'invention', patents will kill innovation. voting against this bill is a refusal to support such manipulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it allows software to be patented by its name, patentability of inventions implemented by computer. if such legislation had existed in the time of mozart or beethoven, by allowing the patenting of musical works, the entire world heritage of mankind would have been undermined! the current copyright system for software must continue to be applied, as it alone guarantees fair and continuous remuneration for authors.
in writing. - once again the european parliament has failed to listen to reason and has accepted the principle of patentability of inventions implemented by computer. the majority epp-pse bloc, although shaken by the relevance of the arguments put forward by the opponents of this measure, once again gave in to the demand of the major groups to push the commodification of human activity even further. indeed, accepting the principle of patents in this field, when inventions implemented by computer are already protected by copyright, is in fact giving the power to multinationals to lock this sector. only they will have the financial power to wage a constant legal guerrilla war to seize these inventions, to make them pay dearly or to block them in their own interests. many amendments to the mccarthy report have fortunately been voted on, which mitigate the scale of this attack. however, the final wording of the resolution was still profoundly harmful, and we voted against it.
in writing. - vice-chairman of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, i voted against the directive on computer-implemented inventions, which remains a confusing text opening the door to software patentability. i regret that the amendment to reject the directive which the greens/efa group introduced was not adopted: when a directive is badly drafted, i think it is up to the european commission to revise its copy. however, i am pleased that good cooperation with other political groups has improved this text, particularly in article 2. in recent months, i have been alerted by many researchers who fear that software patenting is holding back innovation in the european union. at a time when we are doing everything we can to create a european research area, it is absurd to adopt legislation that has been condemned by the most prominent members of the union's scientific community, who sent me a petition. in addition, software patents put at risk free software, which is used in many scientific and industrial applications such as the european satellites of the galileo system. only a clear text guaranteeing the protection of computer programs by copyright can restore legal clarity in this area.
in writing. - our subgroup is committed to consumer protection and will support the rapporteur's compromise, while abstaining on the final resolution for budgetary reasons. programming is planned until 2007. it is common knowledge that the financial perspective will be revised in 2006. there is therefore no guarantee of durability. i rely on the wisdom of cobu, which says that 'the amount foreseen for 2007 will depend on the approval by the budgetary authority of the financial perspective after 2006'. i am also concerned about the cost of running it. eur 32 million is earmarked for human resources, while the operational envelope amounts to eur 72 million. it's a disastrous cost-benefit ratio. it should be remembered that consumer organisations, which are present in all the member states, are an effective counter-force. what is the point of setting up european financing at such a high cost? on the co-financing of projects, i am in favour of maintaining a maximum ceiling of 70% and against 75%. the 50% threshold for financial support to consumer organisations is far too high. it is necessary to avoid creating a relationship of dependence between these organisations and the commission, depriving them of their autonomy and freedom of action. for all these reasons, abstention on the final resolution.
in writing. - in the name of alleged ecological principles, which have been set up as dogmas and placed above real social life, this report, which speaks of the taxation of energy products and electricity, does not specify which social category is affected by this taxation. we would not object to an increase in the levies on the profits of the large industrial groups which are the main polluters. we are, however, completely opposed to the idea of increasing the tax on the consumption of diesel fuel for private individuals. this indirect tax mainly affects the lower classes, who, in the absence of adequate public transport, are forced to use private cars. it is even more unacceptable to tax fuel or electricity for domestic use. that is the meaning we intend to give to our negative vote on the whole of this report.
in writing. - the andersson report takes the form of a resolution commenting on the joint council and commission report on 'viable and adequate' pensions. it seeks to avoid the "goat and the cabbage" by insisting on the compatibility of the "financial dimension" with the "social and welfare aspects". the report contains a number of fair evaluations, particularly on the situation of women. however, these good intentions are soon shattered. the report feels obliged to make references to the european employment strategy, which is a very poor framework for thinking about the changes in the distribution of income that will have to accompany demographic changes. the text welcomes the reforms under way in several states, but does not mention that they have provoked massive opposition from the populations concerned. with some reservations, the report 'endorses the objective of raising the effective retirement age'. we reject this objective, especially since it is the only one that has been put forward in practice and around which all future 'reforms' must be based. we are fighting these reforms alongside millions of employees, and we are opposing them with a simple measure, the increase in employer contributions. that is why we voted against this report.
in writing. - we voted against the gil-robles-tsatsos report which develops a strategy of 'encircling' the intergovernmental conference, aimed at forcing the representatives of national governments to agree more or less with the conclusions of the convention. the european parliament thus shows that it is aware of the importance of the federalist breakthroughs achieved by the convention, in particular with the proposal for a european constitution which was not included in the initial mandate given by the council. it's a windfall for him that he doesn't want to compromise. the commission is not following the same strategy and will obviously seek to take advantage of the igc to achieve even greater supranational advances, for example the near-suppression of unanimous voting, revision methods to circumvent the opposition of certain peoples or stronger economic governance. in any case, it is a question of moving towards a european superstate which the people do not want. we want the national governments at the igc to remember this and not let the european institutions tie their hands.
in writing. - we voted against the draft european constitution because, beyond the details of wording, this constitution is intended to become one of the legal foundations of laws designed to preserve the existing social order and to ensure the privileges of the possessors. our rejection of the european constitution is not in any way an act of retreat to the national constitution, which is equally designed to defend bourgeois property and exploitation. we are in favour of a europe that is totally unified from one end of the continent to the other, but free of the domination of the big bourgeoisie and the dictatorship of the financial groups over the economy, and we have no sympathy for anachronistic sovereignty. we abstained on most amendments because even the best-intentioned amendments seek to improve a constitution which we reject. we abstained on the amendments proposing to hold referendums on the draft constitution. apart from the fact that the questions are always biased by the authorities who ask them, we do not consider referendums as the expression of the popular will in a social organization where the media and the media are monopolized by the rich.
in writing. - my position today in no way prejudges my position on the future european constitution. in principle, i am in favour of a constitution, but i cannot at this stage join those who say that the intergovernmental conference must not change the draft convention in any significant way. the project of valéry giscard d'estaing is notoriously inadequate in social terms and in its citizen dimension. a constitution must not, moreover, freeze the economic and political framework of the union and thereby prohibit any real possibility for citizens to change their society by means of their democratic vote. i therefore hope that the igc will make fundamental changes so that i can vote for the constitution when the time comes.
in writing. - the convention, which is responsible for drawing up the draft constitution of the europe of 25, handed over its copy at the beginning of the summer. while the status quo is regrettable on some points - but could it be otherwise? - on others, the progress made by the convention is to be welcomed. the promotion of territorial cohesion is now one of the main objectives of the european union. as an overseas mep, i can only be happy about that! those who saw in the work of the convention the opportunity to put article 299 (2) of the ec treaty on the outermost regions at risk have been left to their own devices. the content of this article should be included in the future constitution, it is legitimate but it was not acquired in advance! i see in this progress the will to build a europe united in its diversity, a europe of solidarity, a europe which is concerned about the development of all and which gives itself the legal means to do so! i have fought this battle with others, including pervenche berès and olivier duhamel, both members of the convention for the french socialist delegation, and i would like to thank them publicly here. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - we rejected this report as we reject the draft constitutional treaty drawn up by the convention and presented by giscard d'estaing. this project is illegitimate because it is not the result of the will of the peoples of europe. the convention was nothing but a sham democratic debate. neither the drafters nor the decision-makers received a mandate from the people and universal suffrage. although 'civil society' was consulted, there was no mention of involving the people in the drafting process. but more importantly, this treaty is the constitutionalisation of a liberal, pro-nato, militaristic and anti-social europe, as opposed to secularism, social rights, public services and the interests of the working world. we now refuse the right of an intergovernmental conference to decide for us all. but the stakes are high. this european constitution for 450 million citizens will prevail over national constitutions. the contents and content of the book concern all of us. on the contrary, we need another process, namely the organisation of referendums on the same day throughout the union, to impose another progressive project for europe. the best way to oppose this liberal europe is to mobilise the people, which will be demonstrated in particular at the european social forum in saint-denis in november 2003.
in writing. - we thought we had seen everything with the draft european constitution, but that was without counting on this new report which was supposed to express parliament's position on the next igc. as regards the form, i would like to say again that i cannot support the work of the convention, which, it should be recalled once again, was not democratically mandated to draw up a draft european constitution. the direct universal suffrage of a constituent assembly is, in a democracy worthy of the name, an intangible rule, although it may displease some. in the present case, however, that principle was simply violated. i cannot accept the present approach of the european parliament which, through a catalogue of more extravagant demands than any other (election of the president of the commission by parliament, extension of codecision, increased participation of parliament in the revision of the treaties, etc.), exerts exorbitant pressure on the representatives of the member states who will sit in the intergovernmental conference, which 'is' and 'must' remain the only competent body to initiate the process of revision of the treaties. i am not surprised at this: i will vote against this report.
in writing. - i abstained on compromise amendment no 7 and i disagree with paragraph 30 of the motion for a resolution. i think it is wrong to say that 'the draft constitution drawn up by the convention ... reflects the will of the citizens'. the will of the citizens will only be effective after the ratification of the constitution by a popular referendum at european level. i also supported amendment no 78 which regrets that the draft constitution incorporated, in its part iii, all the articles of the maastricht treaty relating to the economic and monetary policy of the union, which are based on the principle of an 'open market economy with free competition' (article iii-70 of the draft constitution), without any amendment. this amendment appears to be essential to fully guarantee the content of article 3 of the draft constitution, which states that the union is based on 'a highly competitive social market economy, aiming at full employment and social progress'. on the question of public services, i supported amendment no 82 which calls for public services to be exempted from the community rules on competition law. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - this report is emblematic of a number of contradictions. the most obvious is that parliament is in favour of the igc being open but not doing anything. overall, the majority seems very satisfied with the outcome of the convention, but cannot deny that the major and recurring problems are still unresolved: lack of democracy, transparency and efficiency. in detail, each of the proposals contradicts the commitment to diversity and respect for democracy, since it is always a question of making a uniform and binding supranational law prevail. for the cpnt-edd members of the european parliament, the convention's method has fallen into the same trap as any diplomatic negotiation. the decision was taken in a circle of insiders who wanted to impose their own views, as has been the case since the beginning of the community's construction. the only point in the draft draft drawn up by the constitutional committee was the last paragraph which allowed referral to the people by referendum in the states whose constitution allows it. it is this test of truth that must be put to the proposals for the future of europe, by allowing a genuine and contradictory debate on which everyone can take a stand. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, thank you to europe for its unanimous position at the un general assembly. europe's intervention will be more important than ever to save the situation. that is the message that president arafat sent us last saturday in ramallah, visibly comforted by the emotional support of his people for ariel sharon's persecution of him, but at the same time extremely concerned about the increasingly unbearable situation imposed on his countrymen. after the startling decision of principle by the israeli cabinet to expel an elected president from his country, or even, as the number two in the sharon government put it, to physically eliminate him, my group wanted, through its president and our colleague luisa morgantini, chair of the parliament's delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council, to express on the spot what a large majority of europeans, including many who are also critical of the palestinian authority, think of this extremely serious precedent. this decision is totally unacceptable and i think it should give pause to all those who think that by sparing ariel sharon we are pushing him towards moderation. the main lesson we draw from our talks in ramallah, but also in jerusalem and tel aviv, is that the urgency of external political intervention in the region to relaunch a dynamic of negotiations offering a population at the end of a hope for a dignified and just peace has never been felt more than today. i still remember the warning words of commissioner patten on the eve of the war against iraq: what i am sure of, he said, in essence, to the thunderous applause of our assembly, is that if this war takes place without the political settlement of the conflict in the middle east being tackled, then we will see a resurgence of terrorism. unfortunately, this is the situation we find ourselves in today. the roadmap was intended to meet this challenge. it has a double advantage. on the one hand, it is a political plan as a whole and not exclusively a security plan. because this is common sense, the palestinian people will be all the more willing to mobilise to prevent terrorist acts if their daily lives are made viable again and their fundamental rights are recognised. on the other hand, the roadmap officially has four sponsors instead of one, whose credibility as a peacemaker is at its lowest. four months after the launch of this initiative, what is left for the just? where is the road map, where is the quartet and, i might add, where is europe? at such a crucial stage, the european union is absent. if, as i believe, the unanimous vote of the 25 in new york last week is a sign of a new awareness of a collective responsibility to be assumed in the region, then mr solana, announced to parliament on 9 october, will give us on that day the political strategy, the concrete objectives and the timetable of the initiatives decided upon in the council to avoid the worst and to revive hope in the middle east. i believe that among the priorities for such a recovery, three should receive particular attention. first, we must refuse to give in to ariel sharon's blackmail on arafat. one thing is to support the idea that reforms are needed within the palestinian authority. this debate is being held in palestinian society, it is legitimate and it is healthy. it is quite another to accept without a word the de facto imprisonment of an elected president in the ruins of his headquarters, and even worse, to bow to the veto of the occupier by avoiding meeting the one who symbolizes palestine in the eyes of all its people. i believe that strong action must be taken to put an end to this unjustified ambiguity. then you have to stand up against the wall that's being built. this is not just a border, the appropriateness of which alone is questionable. it is a marked encroachment on internationally recognised palestinian territories. the wall crosses the university of aboudis near jerusalem. he moves to the heart of bethlehem. it deprives palestinian agriculture of vital irrigated land in the northern west bank. its construction leads to new confiscations, new expulsions, new checkpoints. he foreshadows a palestine in pieces. it's such a scandal that even president bush took offense at his protégé. if the white house itself is threatening to withdraw the us guarantee on credits to israel if this adventurous leap forward is continued, the european union must finally dare to make clear that the maintenance of association agreements with israel is conditional on a reorientation of ariel sharon's policy. finally, all israeli and palestinian initiatives to stop the violence and restart political dialogue must be welcomed. i am thinking of the peace coalition, whose main promoters are mr yossi beilin, former israeli minister and negotiator of the oslo agreements, and mr yasser abed rabbo, minister in the outgoing palestinian government, who has also been involved for a long time in the israeli-palestinian dialogue. these two outstanding personalities have just accepted my invitation on behalf of my group to come together to the european parliament in mid-november. i am also thinking of one of the most emblematic palestinian prisoners, marwan barghuti, a member of parliament who was also very involved in the oslo negotiations and whose prestige, particularly among palestinian youth, could help to win new forces for dialogue rather than violence. finally, mr president, i am thinking of yasser arafat himself, who has just reiterated his determination to take action to achieve a ceasefire, not just a truce, if his efforts and those of the prime minister, mr abu mazen, are not torpedoed by targeted assassinations and house demolitions. the president of the state of israel, unlike ariel sharon, has called for this prospect to be taken very seriously. i believe that the european union's visible initiatives in this direction are of the utmost relevance. this is the express request of my group, but above all it is the dearest wish of the peace advocates on the ground who would like to be able to say as soon as possible, with hope in their hearts, 'europe is back'. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, in speaking once more on this subject, i cannot help but recall, mr president of the council, mr commissioner, sarajevo ten years ago and the real rage that seized me every time a glimmer of hope, born of a painstakingly negotiated agreement, was extinguished by the breath of mistrust and fear. the council president said that the agreement was fuelled, of course, by the radical extremists, but above all by the negotiators themselves, because of a total lack of confidence in their partner and because of the fear that, having ceased to be an adversary, the latter would take advantage of the agreement to consolidate its positions. it is against this disease of fear that i have been revolting ever since the revival of the intifada reinfected the virus in a land where, as mr poettering has just said, the peacemakers are now despairing. i know that to speak in this place, in the comfort and security of our settlement, may seem trivial, even blasphemous, to those who suffer in their flesh and in the flesh of their loved ones. however, i would like to offer our example and the assurance that we are ready to help. our example is that of the reconciliation, here in strasbourg, of nations which for generations had lived in fear of the other. assurance means giving the assurance that when the israelis and palestinians have finally found the terms of an agreement, with the help of the quartet and as a result of your efforts, mr president of the council, the european union will do everything possible to ensure its implementation politically, materially and militarily, if necessary by deploying forces of interposition which could replace a wall whose effectiveness will always remain doubtful and - yes, mr wurtz - whose justification is impossible.
- mr president, october 2000 - october 2003: 1,000 days of violence, 1,000 days of innocent deaths, 1,000 days of suffering for both peoples, 1,000 days of intifada and 1,000 days of impotence for europe. the history of this lost opportunity, of this lost time, will be written later, and those who believed that violence was a justifiable political weapon will be judged very harshly. a few days ago we had a moment of exceptional intensity in parliament, a moment of true light, when we received the palestinian nusseibeh and the israeli ayalon. hope is them. hope comes from the people themselves. europe was made because in 1946 a franco-german commission decided to remove anti-german phrases from french textbooks and anti-french phrases from german textbooks. at that time, the germans were no longer called "boches", they were given other names, they were looked at with other eyes. that is the message we must take to the region. there are people in both peoples who think in terms of dialogue, reconciliation, the future and development. they are the ones who deserve our support. the real nobel prize winners are those palestinian intellectuals who take the risk, as camus once did, of always condemning terrorism as an absolute evil and a crime against humanity. i cannot allow it to be said, as i heard a few moments ago, that hamas' action is anything like resistance. the real heroes are also those israelis on the street, those bus drivers that no human shield has ever thought to accompany. europe must think of the people and the future. we have to stop being prosecutors. we are certainly not qualified to be judges. we must play a realistic and bold role as a guide.
- mr president, during the summer, in the aftermath of a particularly deadly attack, a palestinian official, an aide to the new prime minister, was heard on most of the world's television channels making a statement to the effect that, yes, the palestinian authority must, this time and from now on, seriously engage in the fight against terrorism. it was too much! it was too much for arafat, who precipitated the crisis of his security services and led to the resignation of abu mazen. the beatification of arafat by the international institutions cannot change the terrible fact that the renunciation of terrorism is still delayed. today, arafat is the one who is responsible for the palestinian misery after sabotaging several peace attempts. he is the saddam hussein of the palestinians. may the palestinians be free of it!
i suggest. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in this house, the union's highest representative body, i think it is right to start with the document you approved on 3 july 2003 - this year, therefore - in view of the cancún ministerial meeting, in which you rightly stressed, among other things, that the success of the doha development round of negotiations remains an important factor in supporting the growth of the world economy, strengthening multilateralism and global governance. the european council, for its part, had incorporated these wishes, reiterating in the conclusions of the agre of 21 july 2003 the fundamental commitment of the european union to the successful conclusion of the doha development agenda by the end of 2004, as the doha development agenda constitutes a single commitment, aimed at achieving an ambitious, comprehensive and balanced package of agreements. with these premises, the european union presented itself in cancún, but as you know our hopes, our hopes, our commitments were shattered at the summit, in a hot, scorching climate, not only because of the weather. but we all thought that in these months we had done our utmost, that we had worked so that the negotiations could really take off and meet the deadlines set in doha. it is therefore necessary, in this cooling-off phase, to ask ourselves a number of questions relating to the summit and its preparation. where did we go wrong? it is necessary to ask ourselves this question because europe, perhaps more than any other country - and this is our merit and not our demerit - believes in multilateralism, because it is on this principle that we were born as a union of sovereign states. and the work of the european parliament, your work, is the ultimate metaphor for this principle. before i ask you and myself some questions, i think it is right and proper to say before the highest representative body of the european union that our commissioners pascal lamy and franz fischler, who will speak after me, have always fully complied with the mandate given to them by the european council, with intelligence and flexibility, and which, moreover, is very much reflected in the requests contained in your resolution. moreover, as president-in-office, i can assure the european parliament that at every moment of the summit, at every meeting we have held, in every act, including bilateral acts, which individual members of the union have held and passed, there has always been the utmost cohesion and compactness. europe was a team indeed! to use the terminology of cancún, europe was a true g25, thanks also to the strong contribution of the countries about to join. at this point we shall try to answer, although not easily, the three questions which seem to us to be of priority, and to consider with you three short- and medium-term scenarios: firstly, why did the fifth ministerial conference fail? secondly, who is responsible? thirdly, has europe done all it can? why did the fifth ministerial conference fail? first of all, it must be recognised that the ambiguities contained in the negotiating agenda and the knots that had not been dissolved in doha tightened the noose in cancún, and this was particularly the case with the two main issues, agriculture and the singapore issues. in both cases, we are dragging the ambiguities with us from doha. as regards the text on agriculture, too many parts of it were made ambiguous during the fourth ministerial conference itself, even in the last minutes, in the last sentences. on the other hand, something speculative happened with the postponement of the decisions on the singapore issues, which were the subject of a heated debate in doha and then risked creating a possible negotiating impasse. the fourth world conference resolved these ambiguities by the decision of the qatari presidency to extend the negotiations for another 36 hours on these very issues. as is well known, the formula adopted at the time allowed for a more or less effective inclusion in the individual undertaking, but without a specific negotiated commitment. this means, apertis verbis, that the success of doha is probably due to the international state of necessity. it was the extraordinary nature of doha, the proximity of the tragic events of 11 september, that made the fourth ministerial conference a success. but perhaps the wto crisis, which began in seattle, was only anesthetized in doha and reemerged in cancun, coincidentally on the same issues as in doha. these are two somewhat speculative chapters: on the one hand, on agriculture, europe and the other northern countries have made a cultural exception, which is perfectly legitimate but which is still in conflict with the aspirations of the main developing countries, which accuse us of protectionism and market distortion. on the other hand, there are the singapore issues, i.e. the other issues of the governance of globalisation, which are a priority for europe and the big investor countries, but which the developing countries consider to be invading their prerogatives, so they have also made them - at least some of them - a kind of cultural exception, at least for now. the second question is: who's responsible? there is certainly a responsibility first and foremost on the part of the negotiating parties, who have not acted on the basis of mutual recognition, and have often rather acted to divide the opposing side. following the eu-us understanding on agriculture and the nama in august, the reaction of some 20 countries, led by india and brazil, china and south africa, and including developing countries in the cairns group, was strong and remained consistent throughout the summit. this initial push - a push against rather than in favour of the different players - led to a polarization of positions which exacerbated the negotiations. for the same reasons, some african countries have tried - and perhaps had to - take an original and offensive line by promoting thematic initiatives, such as the one on cotton, and by tightening their positions on traditional chapters as well. in the background, there is a clear structural problem with the wto: the commission's proposal is to be seen as a step in the right direction, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in the committee on budgets, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in the committee on budgets. commissioner pascal lamy, in the immediate aftermath of the summit, spoke of medieval organisation. in the light of european history, a common effort of creativity and political vision is needed to reach the renaissance, the flowering of civilization; and so we must ask ourselves, here in this house, whether europe has done all it can. we europeans, for our part, have prepared ourselves well - at least that is what we thought - firstly with the reform of the common agricultural policy, in the face of a counter-action by the united states, which has introduced the farm bill, but perhaps we have not been able to communicate it well. i think we have also made good progress on the front of the most vulnerable, namely the development agenda, with everything but arms, with technical assistance and capacity building, with the historic decision on life-saving medicines, on which we showed our readiness well before the united states. but perhaps we have not been able to fully appreciate our positions, which are decisive on many issues. we also tried not to widen the gap between the european union and the united states with the august agreement, but what we thought was a solution must be seen as a mistake. after a year and a half of trade war that has stretched the atlantic and divided the main negotiators in doha, was it possible to find a solution with two framework agreements, however important they were? could we have done more? i say this especially with reference to the cotton initiative, which, as a member of the european parliament pointed out to me in cancun during the council meeting with the interparliamentary delegation present, has gradually assumed an ethical and political connotation during the summit, a symbolic value equal to that of life-saving medicines in doha. if we had been more prompt in involving the united states, in showing a greater willingness to solve the problem, perhaps we would have had a happier outcome. and that's where we have to start again. this thread must be taken up within the wto rules and without this agreement setting a precedent for other negotiating chapters. at this point, these three questions open up three problems: firstly, can we now take up the development agenda again? it is certainly not yet completely compromised, but its path is more difficult, full of obstacles and therefore necessarily longer. if we do not make up in geneva in the coming weeks what we lost in cancún, we will be well past the deadline of 1 january 2005. on 15 december we have a sort of mid-term meeting in geneva, probably at senior official level, which will tell us more. the main negotiators may also change at the end of next year, partly because of the coincidence of the us presidential elections and the renewal of the european commission: other negotiators, other issues, other times. the new leadership emerging in cancun will then need to engage in dialogue with the new leadership, recognizing its role; to recognise them, in order to achieve a strong and negotiable relationship; to pursue and better communicate the reform of the common agricultural policy; encourage other industrialised countries to take initiatives along the lines of everything but arms; monitor the effective implementation of the agreement on life-saving medicines, its functioning and its response to the needs of the most vulnerable; to extend technical assistance and capacity building so as not to create in third parties a distrust of the transparency and objectives of the european union, perhaps arising from the heterogeneity and fragmentation of the message. we do not want to force, but to persuade; we don't believe in subterfuge but in clear agreements. the second issue concerns the reform of the wto. can the structure and themes of the agenda be reformed at the same time? how can this be done, and where? and this is perhaps also linked to the crisis of other international organizations, starting with bretton woods, which are not doing their job, and those on other issues - i am thinking of labour, the environment, agriculture itself - which are overloading the wto agenda? the wto is probably facing a crisis of those who risk becoming as big as aesop's frog, both because of the number of membership - 148 - and because of the expanding agenda, and this also in the light of the immobility of other international organisations on issues of their pre-eminent interest and competence. i ask myself and i ask you: is it not appropriate to take up the initiative taken by the commission in 2001 by setting up a special group on the reform and transparency of the world trade organisation, to study in depth the possible institutional solutions of the organisation? finally, the third problem: we have to re-position our trade policy to some extent. it is no coincidence that president bush's personal representative, robert zoellick, announced, a few minutes after the failure of cancún, that the united states would speed up the establishment of the 'alca' 'the free trade area of the americas' and in any case bilateral agreements. the large archipelagos are bounded by very strong bilateral agreements. europe, while not denying its multilateral vocation, must take the initiative and intensify it, starting with the implementation of the eu-mercosur agreement, on which a great deal of negotiation work has been carried out, which the commissioners must acknowledge, and which now deserves a successful and prompt conclusion, and certainly also with the full implementation of the barcelona treaty on euromed: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. brazil - though for now limited to the agricultural dossier - has skillfully taken the lead in the south, along with others, through the formation of the g21. it is an authoritative, democratic, european cultural leadership. we give it our confidence by strengthening the historical and economic and commercial links with the whole of latin america; we are trying to put this on the agenda for next year. in conclusion, after this discussion of the negotiating nodes, let me share with you a distinctive feature of our european identity. a journalist from a prestigious italian newspaper asked me a spontaneous question, perhaps too frank, when he heard about the failure of the summit in cancún itself. he said to me at the press conference: maybe you made a mistake in solving the issue of life-saving medicines before cancún; if it had remained on the negotiating table during the summit, you would have had more power, more bargaining power i answered him immediately, interpreting the values of our europe, i think: if we are the european union, the most advanced front in the recognition of civil rights and the dignity of the human person, it is because we believe in the primacy of the highest value, life, over the requirements of negotiation. if cancún has done anything good, it is perhaps to have forced many to remove the obstacles to agreement in the ministerial context. and that, at least, is something to be proud of. (applause) i would like to thank
commission. - mr president, it is customary to say that trade negotiations are a 'win-win' game in that the gains of the participants, if successful, exceed the costs they accept. well, what's true in success is the opposite in failure. just as the members of the world trade organisation would have all won in cancun if they had succeeded, the failure of this ministerial conference means that we have all lost. this is the view of the european commission, which negotiated for the union. because as negotiators we are responsible to you and to the council of ministers, my colleague franz fischler and i would like to inform you this afternoon of the commission's analysis of the positions we have taken in the discussions and of the conclusions we draw from this event, at least at this stage of our reflections. what was it about cancun? we told you before we left: we are halfway through the negotiating programme adopted in doha at the end of 2001. if we have not succeeded, it is simply because the distances between the negotiating positions could not be sufficiently reduced. la palice would have said the same. we were supposed to be halfway there, we're barely a third of the way there. then why? no, not as in seattle, because of insufficient preparation, but because the momentum of the negotiations did not start before cancun or at cancun. this dynamic is what makes it possible to reduce differences by gradually creating the prospect of a positive outcome, and it is what makes an increasing number of delegations see a greater interest in success than in failure. we all know, however, around the wto table, that each of us has a very precise pharmacist's scale, so precise that even a slight weighting will correct the imbalance. well, ladies and gentlemen, it is the game of weights that is the cause of the failure of cancun. then whose fault is it? to refute the proverb that success has many parents and failure is usually an orphan, my answer to this difficult question is that it is all our fault, or more precisely the fault of the judgment that all the negotiators present have had on how best to fulfil their mandate. to illustrate this abstract point, i will briefly review the positions of the four most visible actors in cancun: the european union, the united states, the g21 and the african and least developed countries group. the european union was strongly in favour of the success of the doha programme, and therefore of success in cancun, which is an uncomfortable tactical position, as everyone knows, when it comes to exchanging concessions or setting up rules that we europeans love. and we paid a lot of money for it. we paid the price in doha, reluctantly agreeing not to negotiate the links between basic social clauses and trade rules and moderating our environmental ambitions. we paid between doha and cancun, softening our positions on investment, competition, trade facilitation and public procurement. we have paid for this since the reform of the common agricultural policy by accepting additional multilateral disciplines on our support for agriculture, for the benefit of developing countries, and by accepting further opening up of our agricultural market, which has enabled us to engage the united states in the same way. finally, i will not mention access to medicines, where we had to persuade our pharmaceutical industry of the urgency of exemptions from patent rights, which fortunately remain vested since they were negotiated separately. but there are limits to concessions. with the agreement of the council, the member states and your delegates on the ground, we have removed these limits in cancun on two points of the programme: investment and competition. but in the absence of significant moves by the other actors, the chairman of the conference concluded in failure, without the negotiation having really started on the long list of issues that remained on the table. let us turn to the united states, which, for its part, also knows how to monitor its pharmacist balance. i feel that the removal of additional access to the agricultural and industrial market in line with their initial ambitions, which were vast, has thrown a precarious balance off balance. but what tipped the balance was the prospect of separate negotiations on a very politically sensitive product, cotton. i believe they would have agreed to meet the demands of the four african countries, which clearly feel they are being harmed by the us support system, if commitments to reduce this support had been made in the agricultural negotiations. the negotiating process has unfortunately failed to reach this point on the agenda. the group of 21, which included brazil, india, china, south africa, mexico and 12 latin american countries, was born, in my opinion, of two parents, a politician father and a farmer mother. the political father is the will to assert the voice of the developing countries at the wto, in the face of a so-called american-european duopoly. this is a strange duopoly, considering the long-standing differences between the us and european positions on access to medicines, singapore issues, geographical indications, the implications of the convention on biological diversity for the wto, the reform of the dispute settlement mechanism and market access in agriculture. i'll stop there. the political father of the g21 was therefore probably more far-sighted than the world trade organisation. i believe that this coalition has been an expression of the will of the major emerging countries to assert themselves more in international debates. they couldn't do it at the un about iraq. they did it in cancun about trade. but the agricultural mother of the g21 was there, as it is true that measured by the wto, the us and europe are the main providers of agricultural support. however, there is one limitation which the abortion of the discussion did not allow to be addressed: the difference between agricultural subsidies which disrupt trade and those which do not. this is a key frontier for the future common agricultural policy. to make a good point and complete the characters surrounding the birth of the g21, it would probably also be necessary to mention the presence of an industrial uncle, of very high tariff size, very impressive for our exporters and in fact not eager to shrink. for the g21, the combined weight of the political success of its assertion of existence and of defensive concerns which, being mercantile in nature, are no less legitimate in the wto, has therefore, in my view, weighed more heavily on agriculture than the prospects of a success, however attractive. to conclude this brief discussion, let us turn to our friends in the least developed countries of africa. in our view, the disadvantages of the erosion of their trade preferences in our markets, which are indisputable in the event of a reduction in what remains of our multilateral protections, outweighed the benefits at hand in other areas. this explains the rejection of the compromise proposed by the conference president, which consisted in keeping only those matters relating to the transparency of commercial transactions and public procurement among the so-called singapore issues. this refusal, let us not forget, was denounced by korea, which wanted to retain investment and competition in the negotiations, probably to compensate for the agricultural concessions which were even more difficult for them and for japan than for others. with this brief presentation of the main positions in the house, i believe i have shown that it is exaggerated and even inaccurate to explain the failure of cancun by a sudden north-south split in the wto. ladies and gentlemen, in cancun there was no north and south facing each other, but north and south facing each other without ever meeting. before coming to the conclusions we draw for the moment from this failure for all of us, i would like to reiterate to you that the european union negotiated in cancún in good faith and added new concessions to those we had already put on the table. we can be criticised for this good faith, but this is a question of the image of the european union on which neither franz fischler nor i am prepared to compromise. we can also be blamed, i read and heard, for moving too slowly. but too slowly in relation to who or in relation to what? compared to the total immobility of all the other major participants, none of whom moved an inch? i would gladly accept this criticism if the process of discussion had, at some point, picked up speed. i believe we have enough witnesses to prove that it was not. the shock is important, let's not hide it. as with any political shock - and cancun is a political shock - we must go back to the basics and ask ourselves some questions about the union's international trade policy, in order to check whether or not the foundation on which we have built it over several decades remains unchanged. the first question is: do we keep as a benchmark this dynamic balance between the opening up of markets and the creation of rules without which this opening up is neither real nor in line with our values? this question must be asked, because the appetite for open markets around the wto table is becoming dangerously selective. modernization of existing rules or the adoption of new rules in areas that are dear to us, such as the environment, is confronted with the heterogeneity of policy choices that are the other face of the growing participation of nations in international trade. the second question, which has just been put by the presidency, is whether we are still committed to these priorities of multilateralism, which is the hallmark of the union's external policies. is this preference shared by our partners? if they're not, are we powerful enough to change their minds? are bilateral or regional agreements still complementary to the progress of multilateral disciplines or should they replace them in the event of a standstill, which would leave the wto dispute settlement mechanism with the task of interpreting inevitably incomplete rules and thus, in time, take the place of the international legislator, the ministerial conference, which today brings together the 148 member states? thirdly, how should we approach the future of our trade preference systems, which the european union has largely set up for the benefit of developing countries and with a differentiation concern to concentrate the benefit on those who need it most? the fourth and final question is: are the wto, its principles and its organisation still relevant to today's world? given its principle of equality of rights and duties of members, tempered by special treatment and differentiated by the asymmetries in the level of protection that remain between the north and the south. the european parliament has been a key player in the debate on the future of the european union, and its organisation has made it increasingly difficult to reach consensus among its growing membership on questions which are technical but which have major political consequences, since they now affect, immediately or in the medium term, the lives of billions of women and men. these are the few questions, ladies and gentlemen, that we must consider together before returning, if necessary, to more tactical or operational terms, before imagining new compromises, which are indispensable if our priority is to keep globalization under control and make it fairer and more equitable. the european commission is counting on you and the council of ministers to help it find the right answers to these questions. it is counting on all of you and, of course, first of all on those whom you delegated to cancun, who are here tonight and with whom we have worked hand in hand.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets, which are not in line with the commission's proposals. pascal lamy and i are in complete agreement on this. unfortunately, cancun was a failure. this failure is damaging to us all and is of course a setback for the entire doha development agenda. the idea that agricultural policies in the industrialized countries were ultimately responsible for the failure is wrong. the negotiating parties have not even had the opportunity to raise this issue in a final round of negotiations. in the months leading up to cancún, much of the responsibility for a successful round of negotiations in cancún was attributed to the eu. firstly, we were told that we had to reform our common agricultural policy in order to make the negotiations a success. we did, and we got a lot of international applause for it. afterwards, we were told that the talks would fail if we did not resolve our differences with the americans. we have therefore drawn up a compromise document with the united states in august which has created a solid negotiating structure for the success of the negotiations. the bottom line is that we are all losers in the failure of the talks, and in the end the developing countries are probably the net losers in the agricultural negotiations. this is particularly true of the g21 countries, which were the most opposed to the approach proposed by mr pérez del castillo. the package offered in cancún would have enabled the developing countries to integrate their economies more closely into the world trading system and thus to benefit accordingly from the advantages of the world trading system. because the package offered in cancún would have led to a meaningful continuation of the reform of the agricultural trade system. in particular, and this was one of the main objectives of the developing countries in the agricultural negotiations, it would have led to drastic cuts in subsidies that distort competition, especially in the industrialized countries. among other things, the united states would have had to reform its agricultural policy. what exactly was offered? in the area of internal support, the most trade-distorting measures, the so-called amber box and the de minimis payments, would have been drastically reduced. the blue box would have been sealed. at the same time, special preferential treatment was provided for developing countries, and they would have continued to be eligible for input aid. in the area of export competition, drastic cuts and disciplines were proposed in export subsidies, state-financed export credits and surplus utilization disguised as food aid. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. but this is far from all. a success in cancún would have led to further substantial trade liberalisation. in addition to its proposals on market access, which are in the interests of all, the european union had made some far-reaching specific proposals to these countries in the spirit of the development orientation of the doha development agenda. the european union had already demonstrated its support for the developing countries and the development agenda when it arrived in cancún. in sum, our concessions to developing countries have helped to make the european union by far the most important importer of agricultural products from developing countries. last year, we imported 35 billion euros worth of agricultural products from developing countries, which is more than the imports of the major industrialized countries combined. we had accepted the 'everything but arms' agreement, which unilaterally opens the eu market to the 49 poorest countries in the world without asking for political or economic concessions in return. we have proposed that this concession should be extended to our partners in the industrialized and advanced developing countries. we have proposed that the developed countries should ensure that at least 50% of all agricultural imports from developing countries can be imported duty free. there were a number of other offers, such as tariff escalation would have been dealt with and developing countries would have received a special safeguard clause and special arrangements for their specific products. the presidency text also left other issues open for further negotiation, such as non-trade concerns, and proposed an extension of the peace clause. as for the future, i believe that we must continue on our ambitious path, but that we must also carefully assess, analyse and plan each step along this further path. we must continue to work for constructive dialogue in the coming months. we must continue to play a central role in the coming months, but ultimately success will depend on all wto members and also on the willingness to move towards a position in the middle. this will certainly require political will and a willingness on the part of all, not only the industrialized countries but also the developing countries. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, commissioners, our first task is therefore to make a proper diagnosis. the union may have made mistakes, but i would not be the one to shout haro at the baudet, i would not kick my mule. we can and must discuss tactics, but in substance it is true that our negotiators respected the mandate, made many concessions, withdrew from the negotiations on investment and competition. it was the last thing to do. but, as i shall say, the realities of the situation require us to review our mandate in depth. in cancun, there were other elephants and other mules. but the united states has stood behind us, when they had no will to engage. india and many other countries are not interested in the doha agenda, brazil is interested, especially on agriculture, but it has given priority to its political emergence. a misdiagnosis can be extremely dangerous for the future in the face of great challenges. we must beware of internal pressure to abandon the common agricultural policy. good reform requires moving towards the elimination of export subsidies, certainly not of long-term support. the european parliament has been very active in this area, and i think that the commission has been very active in this area. let us beware of a certain north-south angelicism. like many others, i see the conjunction of free traders and large agricultural exporters in the south. i also think it would be suicidal for employment in europe not to see that china, and tomorrow others, are emerging with big comparative advantages. second question: what should we do? the reflection that is offered to us is welcome. but in the meantime, should we not also think about initiatives for the mass of weak countries which really need results now? should the doha agenda not therefore focus on continuing negotiations as soon as possible on a few key issues: export subsidies, cotton, textiles, special and differential treatment and, probably, transparency. now, in the medium and long term, we must stick to multilateralism and work more closely on reforming the wto with the involvement and participation of citizens. i think, and the alter-globalists are right, that in order to consolidate the wto, we must try to revise its foundations, at least those with a sense of responsibility. it is a place built for free trade, it is a trading of comparative advantages, but legitimate protection issues are increasingly being raised. we ask this when we talk about patents, public health, the environment, social clauses and in the south, when we talk about non-reciprocal market access. that is why, in my view, our line of 'liberalisation + rules' cannot really fully appeal to public opinion, because it understands that these are rules for free trade. we therefore want a world organization of fair trade, rules for fruitful mutual openness which also presuppose a balance between liberalization and legitimate protection. in this context, differentiation is necessary given the enormous global inequalities, a very poorly resolved policy issue at the wto. on all these issues, let us engage in public dialogue with brazil, the g21, the g90 and also the american public. could we not also redefine our bilateral and regional policies, which are too much in the aid for trade logic, while masses of countries say they have other priorities, capacities to produce before selling and also to be able to rely on international public goods.
madam president, the wto negotiations have failed. we do not make a drama out of it, considering that no agreement is better than a bad agreement. "why?" and "who benefits from this failure?" are the two questions that must be asked after cancun. i agree that it is difficult to bring together 160 countries with widely divergent interests, but has the union not made a strategic mistake? did she not negotiate naively before the negotiations? should the union speak with one voice in giving the commission an exclusive mandate irrespective of the competence of the negotiators? would it not have been better and more efficient to have formed temporary agreements like the g21, for example, instead of allying ourselves with the united states on the agricultural question beforehand? how can we imagine that in the run-up to the election president bush would sacrifice his farmers and his agri-food industry? there was therefore no opening up between the north and the south, as was bitterly noted in the highly symbolic case of cotton. the world bank telling african countries to mass produce and change culture is actually unacceptable. the european union, which did not hesitate to sacrifice its electorate by reforming the cap by forceps in order to claim a strong position at the negotiating table, is in a delicate position. the united states, on the other hand, continues to help its farmers and is starting to sign bilateral agreements. is the union prepared to do the same and freeze the reform of the cap?
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. cancun has shown: firstly, the demand for market opening without taking account of the existence of serious social differences is simply unrealistic. the starting point in each wto member state is so different that equal conditions for all do not promote justice but increase injustice, thus moving away from the stated objective of fair trade rather than towards it. secondly, of course, the differences between the industrialized and developing countries are particularly great, but these blocs are not homogeneous either, just as the european union is not a homogeneous entity. and since we all know how difficult it is to achieve results within the european union, we should also understand how much more difficult it is in a community of 148 countries. thirdly, in negotiations, one must always put oneself in the position of the negotiating partner, i.e. one must be prepared to make concessions to the weaker party without expecting anything in return. but if you negotiate on the bazaar principle - you give to me, i give to you - you should not be surprised if they fail. fourthly, we must recognise that the eu is just one of many regions in the world and take much more account of the global impact of our decisions in the future. in other words, we need a preventive policy assessment. fifthly, the negotiations must be conducted in an open and transparent atmosphere, so that civil society can also be involved in a timely and comprehensive manner throughout the process. it is paradoxical that the wto, which is supposedly committed to breaking down trade barriers for the benefit of the world's population, is building fences against its critics. i find it completely unacceptable - and i was in cancún - that instead of seeking dialogue with the protesters, the government officials have barred them from the venue of the trial. sixthly, we need a different organisational and decision-making structure in the wto, and it must be re-engineered so that multilateral agreements are drawn up in a fairer and more transparent way.
- madam president, commissioner, i must admit that your frankness has disarmed me a little. you have admitted defeat and even admitted, through the voice of commissioner fischler, that you were wrong to pay in advance with the sacrifice of the common agricultural policy, whereas the united states, with which you had entered into an alliance which was a little unnatural in this case, did not make this sacrifice. this defeat is the defeat of the european institutions themselves. you have made mistakes not intuitu personae - others would probably have made more serious ones - but es quality. in your speech you asked the right questions, except one: the question of the appropriateness of giving the commission an exclusive negotiating mandate on behalf of 25 countries. the group of 21 countries is 21 negotiators. the cairns group before, it was 17 countries, 17 negotiators. this is the question that arises and i hope that the igc will also ask it seriously.
- madam president, commissioner, minister, it is obvious that we could regret an error of analysis in the balance of power in cancun. you said there were two elephants, maybe the third one got away. fifty years after bandung, it's cancun and the return of the non-aligned, even if they are many. more probably, there was the mistake of 13 august 2003 with the europe-us agreement, which blurred the pro-development image you wanted to give yourself, particularly with the 'everything but arms' programme, and you gave the impression, as you put it, of a 'duopoly'. it is certain that this pre-agreement with the united states, which came after the blair house agreement in 1992, has put you and us in the same bag as the cotton planters in texas and their 3.5 billion dollars in subsidies that have been hampering the 10 million small african planters. but europe is certainly not responsible for this failure, if it is to be considered that stopping the drift of ultra-liberalism is a failure. in the pre-election campaign, the us administration did not want an agreement any more than in seattle, the african countries could not accept the disregard of paragraph 27 of the final declaration which told them "make something other than cotton" and you, you made all the sacrifices, you sacrificed our farmers in advance, you sacrificed two out of four singaporean issues, you were even ready to give our shirt, especially as the textile agreement comes to an end, but we did not want our shirt in cancun. so what do you do? of course, we have to wait until january 2005 for the inauguration of the new us president. what can be done about the cap? common sense, justice would want the cap regulations to be withdrawn because that was the price to pay for buying the cancun goods that were not delivered. what about the cotton? sacrifice our 3% share of the world market or give the africans what they are asking for: a trust fund with $250 million annually organized by an international institution? what to do at the wto? you say we need to change medieval procedures. the same could be said of the imf, the un, and the european commission itself. this means that the institutional question is much broader. how can we legally arrange for the inevitable economic, media and technological globalisation of tomorrow, and for the inevitable and eternal permanence of political nations, which have the power to make decisions? so, obviously, no one has the answer on how to change the wto. in any case, the research must be teleological and not theological, because the theology of the sect of "free trade", the madrassas of washington or geneva, who are the madmen of the market, the taliban of ultra-liberalism, are certainly a planetary ideological error, and because the right ends that will give the right solutions are not ultra-liberalism, privatizations, the market, but social justice, political justice, national justice. that being said, commissioner, we wish you well in your new role after june 2004, and i must admit that i am looking forward with a bit of voracious curiosity to seeing where your golden parachute lands.
- madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i had prepared a paper but everything has been said. i will begin, commissioners, mr lamy, by saying that when there is a failure, there must be a culprit. i think we're all guilty. when we say we should share the shirt and we share it badly, it means that we may have prepared poorly. but you also have to take responsibility. i agree with what mr van velzen and mr suominen said. first of all, i would like to say that i am very pleased with the agreement reached before cancun on generic medicines, even though it is a small agreement for developing countries. i have a very special thought for this issue. secondly, having been present in seattle and doha, i will say that it is true that the negotiations cannot continue under these conditions. mr lamy, you are right, and if it is true that you must leave as some have said, it is time to say how we should negotiate. it is also true that we cannot have demonstrations on the one hand and people who want to negotiate and try to find solutions, especially for the poorest countries, in multilateral negotiations on the other. this multilateralism is important, but it is also essential to introduce more democracy into the wto. this is a big point: in cancun i saw a lack of democracy at the negotiating table and in the general climate. i think that was my main concern after my third participation in the negotiations. we are being asked for transparency and clarification. everyone involved in the negotiations must be transparent: why they are there, who they represent. the community of 25 was represented by two persons. the group of 21 was defended by some ngos we had met in our offices in brussels, who had then used a language totally different from that used in cancun. all of this is true. maybe the abscess had to explode, but you can't leave. so who's the cause and who isn't? we must ask ourselves two additional questions, mr lamy, what we are going to do next; how are we going to work, how are we going to apply the 'peace clause' to our work in the immediate future? this is the question that european farmers are asking themselves.
- madam president, the failure of cancun is a camouflage imposed by the countries of the south on the imperial powers of the united states and the european union. once again, they have tried to impose their rather cynical logic of maintaining protectionism for their own agriculture and securing free access for their industries throughout the world. the suicide of the korean peasant leader tragically symbolizes the despair of millions of women and men who have been robbed by this market of dupes. in very difficult conditions, the cancun protesters affirmed their rejection of the wto rules that impoverish them more and more every day. this failure of the wto will not be enough to change the systems to finally meet basic needs. it is nevertheless a real encouragement for the world's underprivileged - and there are many of them - to develop their thinking and struggle towards an ambitious goal: to create, finally, a just and united world. today, mr lamy, we must stop demanding, and this is in our name, the liberalization of 102 of their services. on the contrary, it is time to cancel the debt of the countries of the south today. this could finally open up the possibility of real development for the developing countries.
- madam president, commissioners, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cancun is a failure, as seattle was. it was definitely a vicious cycle. whose fault is it? the right - the epp, the liberals - are convinced that it is the others, the ngos, the group of 21! we say: probably the wto itself, but also we who had already negotiated with the united states. it is perhaps more difficult for us, the european union, to admit that we have fallen, since you, commissioners, and you, our governments, were convinced that we had everything planned for the success of this cycle. everything was planned, of course, except the cairns group explosion which we had rather tried to neutralize. everything but the emergence of a more coherent, whatever one may say, group of 21 as defenders of the developing countries, even if the acp and the ldcs are not quite the same. we in the north must convince the south, for example on the agricultural question, that we are really more equitable. the cap has been extensively revised - perhaps a little too much - to make it more "sexy" in the eyes of the wto. but the countries of the south still have a negative view of all agricultural subsidies, even those which we consider to be the most virtuous. how can we make our point of view understood in countries like those in africa whose food crops have been ruined for years by the dumping effects of export subsidies from the european union (which made briton battery chickens sell cheaper on the dakar market than native poultry)? the cap, by supporting export prices for cereals, meat and sugar, has flooded the countries of the south for a long time. how, then, can we convince them today of the merits of our reorientations without abolishing export subsidies? how can we convince them when, on the crucial question of cotton for africa, we have appeared as the unconditional supporters of american contempt, via paragraph 27 which referred any reform in this area to the greek calendar? until we have found ways of making the southern states understand what the second pillar of agriculture, the social, environmental and food safety rules, are about, until we allow them to adopt the same rules to protect rural populations, we will not be able to find a situation in which they can understand us. it is this democratic reform that must be discussed and debated with them. it is by redefining the wto in rules of this kind that we will make not only fair trade, but democracy.
- madam president, the failure of the cancun ministerial conference on 14 september has caused many to fear that the first victim will be the multilateral approach to international trade negotiations. that would be a shame. we are convinced that world trade and international life in general must be based on simple multilateral rules that are respected by all and enforced by transparent international organizations. but what rules? this is the whole problem because since 1995 and the marrakesh agreements, the wto has been living on a great underlying principle: systematically opening markets and global free trade, which is supposed to bring the greatest benefits to all, in all cases. this is the rule, which is being challenged by more and more countries, which has just exploded in cancun and we must be aware of it if we want to rebuild something. to rebuild, of course, we must maintain the rule of free trade, but supplement it with another: that of the sovereignty of each national democracy or each trade preference zone, which must be free to adjust trade according to its needs, particularly in agriculture. the lessons of the cancun failure must now be learned and the specific nature of these issues must be acknowledged, which should perhaps even be removed from the wto and placed under the control of a specific international organisation. in any case, the fundamental rules must be the right of each country or area to preserve its agricultural model, its food independence and the health of its population. which implies two twin imperatives. first, accept the total disappearance of agricultural export subsidies in the long term. let us not hide our faces, let us be frank, it is a moral necessity. secondly, to admit just as frankly the legitimacy of community preference in the form of import levies or internal aid when it is necessary to achieve the social objectives we have democratically set ourselves. these two simultaneous franchises are necessary if we are to start from scratch, but they also involve a thorough review of the internal reform of the european agricultural policy which was prepared too quickly in the cancun perspective. this reform must now be re-examined and reoriented in the light of the lessons we have learned from this failure.
- madam president, the cancun negotiations were to be an opportunity to take the first step towards fairer trade. but it did. the developing countries have overturned the traditional balance of power within the wto. this is a key point to consider politically. but who will really benefit from this failure? i note that the developing countries have gained nothing concrete from implementing the requirements they had set out in the doha agenda. i imagine, as many here do, that the americans will try to strengthen bilateralism to their advantage and i wonder how we europeans will deal with the escalation of the trade war that may follow. in the short term, at least, i think this failure is damaging. but in the eyes of public opinion, it has the effect of raising the question of the rebalancing of the north and the south more than ever. this is the whole problem we must now try to answer. we must see how to answer it and with whom. this is a very important question, because, for example, the interests of all developing countries are not identical and their options for the wto do not yet appear to be very homogeneous. in this context, which partner, which group can we rely on to develop and initiate a strategy for relaunching negotiations and reforming the wto? on the other hand, we have understood the group of 21's desire to combat external and internal public support for agriculture. can we not fear, commissioner, that some countries will seize the opportunity of the end of the peace clause to attack our cap legally, in order to achieve their objectives without having to provide politically negotiated counterparts? however, after cancun, the answers seem less obvious than the questions.
- madam president, commissioner, i believe that the union must learn from the failure of cancún to avoid repeating the same mistakes in the future and rethink its strategy to prepare the necessary initiatives to revive multilateralism. firstly, with regard to the emergence of these new groups of developing countries, i believe that president prodi was right last week in bologna to point out that there was an underestimation and a misunderstanding of the nature of the g 21 and the political will it expressed. i think that trying to divide it or to turn other developing countries against this group was a mistake. it was useless and it took us away from the indispensable political dialogue and the trust that we had to try to rebuild with him. of course, the emergence of these groups and then of the g 90 will make discussions and negotiations more difficult for us in the wto. this is a challenge for the european union, but it is also a guarantee of a more balanced trading system that better responds to the concerns of all continents, and in particular those that have not so far benefited from the establishment of the wto. secondly, on the singapore subjects. i think the negotiations were already quite complicated on agriculture and other wto issues. there was also the liability of the commitments made in doha and not respected, in particular the deadlines not respected, not to add to them subjects which we knew that the developing countries, for the most part, did not want. this was an overly traditional approach to bargaining between defensive and offensive issues, which was out of place and again showed a misunderstanding of the underlying reasons for singapore's refusal to address these issues. i believe that if we are to save multilateralism today, we must propose a fundamental reform not only of the way the wto works - this parliament has made proposals and i have had the honour of being its rapporteur - but also of its rules, its priorities and its tenets, as has been said by other members before. i believe that we need to reinsert trade rules so that they are better accepted by all in the overall design of global governance. the wto must be brought back into the united nations system, as commissioner prodi said earlier about relations with other agencies, and perhaps under the control of an 'economic and social security council', as proposed by former commission president jacques delors.
in writing. - developing countries are organising and asserting themselves. the main lesson of cancun is the rise of the southern "bloc". the poor countries can no longer stand the arrogance of the giants of world trade, the united states and the european union. even if pascal lamy tries to make it seem that the failure of the conference is primarily detrimental to the poor countries, he nevertheless says that a trustee - in the absence of the bastion of the wto - has fallen! we must get rid of the cynicism of the "give and take" logic which consists in imposing on the south the excess of all-round liberalisation of its most vital sectors, while the populations struggle for their survival. the union and the member states must build new relations with the south, not spoil it. europe must refuse to align itself with the united states, for example by relying on the authority acquired by the anti-globalisation movement. the union must now recover from its isolation and from the discrediting of its willingness to invest sincerely in a genuine policy of cooperation and development. the so-called 'poor' countries are not poor in terms of requirements and proposals. it is by treating them as genuine interlocutors that europe will gain a place in the world, and contribute to making it more humane.
the commission (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has examined with great interest the report on the activities of the committee on petitions for 2002/03. in addition to examining the numerous petitions submitted to it, its committee had to deal with the election of the new community ombudsman and was able to carry out its duties by organising the hearings of the candidates rigorously and effectively. a number of own-initiative reports on matters of principle were also drawn up, such as the perry and kessler reports on the right of petition at the dawn of the 21st century, mr gemelli's report on the strengthening of the right of petition with a view to a revision of the eec treaty and mr de rossa's report on the contribution of his committee to the convention. the commission - i would like to reiterate once again, ladies and gentlemen - is particularly aware of the importance of petitions in measuring the daily concerns of citizens in europe. the committee on petitions is irreplaceable in this respect, since it is the ideal place where direct relations between citizens and parliament can be established. enlargement will also give it a privileged way of measuring the progress of european integration. i understand your desire to strengthen the administrative capacity of your committee in order to deal as well as possible with the expected influx of large numbers of new requests from citizens of the member states. in that sense, i can only acknowledge and support what mr gemelli has just said. the commission is ready to improve its own procedures and, as it has stated on several occasions, is ready to discuss with parliament and the council a possible modification of the 1989 exchange of letters on the handling of petitions. i would like to thank mrs gonzález álvarez for her report, who is not taking part in the debate today, and i wish her luck and the greatest possible success in her new responsibilities. i want to acknowledge the role that new petitions play in informing the services dealing with the application of community law and we will do our utmost to coordinate the action of the commission services with the committee on petitions. i would like to thank mr gemelli for acknowledging that in recent years there has been a clear improvement in the response from the commission as a whole and very particularly from the commission officials. i thank him on behalf of all the commission officials, who are doing a magnificent job and to whom i will pass on mr gemelli's words, because i think it is right. i think it is very important that we have good working relations between the commission, the ombudsman and the committee on petitions. mr president, the role of the committee on petitions needs to be better known to the public. in this sense, the commission will continue to support their efforts and i hope that in the future we can, as today, congratulate ourselves because we are taking steps forward, we are making progress and we are achieving what mr gemelli said: that the citizen in this increasingly complex, more globalised world will not diminish, but on the contrary will gain in dignity, in capacity, grow as a human being.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the gonzález álvarez report on the proceedings of the committee on petitions during the 2002-03 parliamentary year is not a new problem, since it is in fact a report on the activities of this parliamentary committee and a statement of its role. the amendments which i tabled on behalf of the epp group and which were adopted, however, make some improvements to the working methods, with particular emphasis on the publicity which can be given to this committee. we must also focus our efforts on improving the speed of responses to petitions. as mrs gonzález álvarez's report points out, the committee on petitions is by its very nature a kind of bridge between the european citizens and parliament. given its proximity to european citizens, it is now of growing importance. its activity must be continued, intensified, strengthened and its effectiveness must become formidable in view of enlargement. to achieve this, we must above all make the committee on petitions better known. indeed, paragraph 23 states that the european parliament, with a view to the accession to the european union of new member states, calls for measures to be strengthened to ensure that new european citizens are aware of the right to petition parliament, the commission and the ombudsman, a right granted to them by articles 21 and 194 of the treaty. in this context, it is appropriate for our commission to improve its image among citizens in view of the important challenges facing the union. the aim of this report, beyond the conclusion it draws, is therefore primarily to help the committee on petitions to develop satisfactorily and to fulfil its objective in a concrete way: to be the direct instrument for the exercise of an enlarged european citizenship and, in fact, to bring europe closer to the citizen.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on petitions, which is often the centre of attention in the debates of this house and is sometimes threatened with extinction, deserves our full attention. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to stress that this commission is the best indicator of a number of the difficulties faced by citizens, their questions, their expectations and, unfortunately, also their disappointments with regard to the european union. the vast majority of petitions are from citizens who believe in the european project and the hopes it holds. i will not be too bold to remind you of the many objectives set out in the treaties currently in force and those currently being drawn up. this report is very good in that it seeks to provide practical and political answers. the committee on petitions and its members affirm a clear commitment to direct democracy and take direct democracy seriously by assuming the role of representing citizens. the committee on petitions, its members and its secretariat are also setting an example in their constant efforts to improve internal organisation to serve petitioners. everyone here knows that neither i nor my group spare the european commission, nor do we indulge it, but i will emphasize here the quality of the work done by its agents, in the committee on petitions, in providing concise answers, without emphasis or grandiosity. we would like these qualities - humility, responsibility - to guide all the work of the college and its departments. of course there are differences and divisions, but without denying them, the committee on petitions has shown that it is able to overcome them in order to find real answers. for example, when examining the report on monitoring the application of community law, the committee on petitions twice asked the european commission, and i quote, 'to look for political solutions and, in particular, to consider very seriously the need to make proposals for the revision of community rules, which are the subject of the most frequent cases of misapplication or recurrent challenge'. let me emphasize again this proposal, which is much more likely to advance the law than the multiplication of legal proceedings which, when misunderstanding persists, only lead to the sterile inflation of litigation. citizens want to be heard in a europe that respects democracy and the diversity of its voices, and not be victims of a europe of judges and procedures. the committee on petitions, like the ombudsmen, is a tool that is too often underestimated.
in writing. - i supported mrs read's report, which did a very good job on the modinis programme. this programme will contribute to improving the security of computer networks and to the dissemination of good practice in the information society within the european union. i would like to make it clear that the use of open standards is essential for computer security, and it is important that programmes based on these standards participate in modinis, which has a budget of €25 million.
mr president, the text adopted at first reading in mrs villiers' report does not represent any real progress compared with the commission's text. in fact, we would have gladly voted for it, because it is an acceptable compromise, if the second part of amendment no 86 had not been voted. it is regrettable that in a case such as this, investment firms have in fact been exempted from actually charging the prices they charge. this is an attack on transparency. i would just point out that, both on amendment no 86 and on the final text, there was not a substantial majority of members in this house to support this text. i hope that mrs villiers will take this into account and that, at second reading, when this text comes back to us from the council, a compromise acceptable to more people will be able to emerge in this house.
in writing. - the lisi report on solvents used in decorative paints and varnishes, by reducing their harmful effects, aims to guarantee clean air for european citizens. the manufacture of these solvents results in ozone emissions, the effects of which are harmful to both man and nature. the aim is to offer the industrialists concerned production methods which are more respectful of public health, including at the workplace, and the environment, by limiting the use of these solvents. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the intention is good, but it is reserved for european citizens. in fact, in the name of the competitiveness of european companies, it states, in the name of an amendment which we rejected, that coatings intended for export to third countries are not concerned. clearly, the european union intends to guarantee clean air only to european citizens. the european union is not doing anything to stop the poisoning of others, especially those in third world countries, who may be poisoned or even be killed. at least that is one wording that clearly shows how little she cares about the plight of the people of underdeveloped countries!
in writing. - the resolution just voted by the european parliament following the failure of the wto conference in cancun provides no substantive diagnosis, nor any clear direction for the future. in particular, it does not say that this failure is the result of a growing rejection of free trade and that work must now be done to establish fairer rules for international trade; whereas the european union, which has been a zealous servant of this free trade, in particular by insisting on the inclusion in the negotiations of singaporean issues (rules on investment, public procurement, etc.) which the developing countries did not want, has largely contributed to this failure; the commission in particular is also largely responsible for having used in these international negotiations the same autistic method as it uses internally vis-à-vis those who want a different policy. and the reform of the common agricultural policy, which was prepared in anticipation of cancún and which we strongly condemned, is now largely obsolete. the european union must take account of the new data and prepare another reform, more suitable to protect our agricultural model.
in writing. - unlike a majority of meps, i am one of those who rejoice at the failure of cancun, not because i am against globalisation on principle (i am even philosophically in favour of the free movement of ideas and people), but because i am against globalisation without rules or rather against globalisation whose rules are economic, financial and strictly structured by the law of the strongest. i would add that this summit has shown that the alternative world view and its advocates have succeeded in moving beyond simple rejection to genuinely alternative proposals. that is why i refuse to join a resolution which, to a large extent, regrets this failure. this new signal was needed so that the world's top leaders would finally understand that they will never again have full and complete freedom to impose their ideas and practices on us.
in writing. - the failure of this 5th wto conference offers a unique opportunity to rethink the union's trade policy: since the good intentions and efforts of the european delegation cannot be questioned, it might be time to recognize that it is the framework and specifications of this type of organisation which are the cause of this inefficiency today. as unjust as it may seem, this sanction provides the european union with the means to put an end to its dogmatism in this area and to look at foreign trade again as an object of negotiation between sovereign states, and not as a new stage in the triumphal march of the whole community. how can we not see in the ldcs' refusal the only possible manifestation of their freedom? how can we fail to understand that the indigestible "global negotiation" which serves as a postulate before each new cycle, offers little room for manoeuvre to the nations at the top to evaluate the europe/us agreements or to take responsibility for a failure? it will not be a miracle if the wto is given a cosmetic treatment for every answer: it does not need to be put back on track, but needs to change direction.
- the von wogau report therefore proposes to regulate and moralize arms exports. it's like trying to moralize murder, looting or kidnapping. the very fact that major powers are wasting colossal sums of money on weapons of mass destruction is a sign that the present organization of society is barbaric. the governments of the great nations, responsible for criminal wars from iraq to afghanistan, accomplices of state terrorism in palestine, would like to exclude from access to arms a number of smaller countries whose regimes they dislike, organizations considered to be terrorist and organized crime. but even that turns out to be impossible. in your economy where arms dealers are willing to sell the rope to hang them as long as it brings them a profit, how do you stop them from circumventing administrative controls? and when the report welcomes the french initiative to propose an international code of transparency, or when it refers to the european union's code of conduct on arms exports, the ridicule is added to the ugliness, as these are countries that are among the world's main arms exporters and are periodically shaken by political and financial scandals involving high-ranking politicians and arms dealers. the recent appointment of one of the main arms dealers, who is now the subject of legal proceedings, to the post of minister of a third world state to unesco, thus giving him diplomatic immunity, shows the vanity and the ridiculousness of your claim to moralize the arms trade. we obviously reject this report.
- mr president, by asking the commission this oral question on the pressing problem of the mass mortality of bees, my colleagues dominique souchet and astrid lulling are once again sounding the alarm, and i wholeheartedly support their approach. for several years now, since 1995 to be exact, we have been witnessing in france totally abnormal problems of decline in bee colonies. the situation is getting worse every year, the extent of the affected areas and the number of hives are increasing steadily, and now it can be said that many european countries are affected. it is clear from the examination that this mortality of bees is not a classic pathology. several other hypotheses were investigated, such as climate, general pollution or misuse of plant protection products. but while they may sometimes bear some responsibility, they can by no means explain the full extent of the wrong. i do not agree with the view you have just expressed, commissioner. in fact, according to experts and professionals, one main cause is well identified: the environment of the apiaries, when it includes fields of honey, rapeseed, sunflower, maize, whose seeds have been treated with insecticides of the gaucho or regent type. of course, the industrial manufacturers reply that the link is not formally established, but experience shows the complete coincidence between the disorders of the bees - loss of sense of orientation, tremors, inability to plunder and finally death - and the presence nearby of crops from seeds treated with gaucho or regent. the more observations there are, the more these conclusions are confirmed. however, nothing decisive has yet come from the public authorities, apart from words of appeasement, the launch of studies and some specific measures such as, in france, the temporary suspension of the gaucho's authorisation for the treatment of sunflower seeds. this is why the european parliament's committee on agriculture, again at the instigation of dominique souchet and astrid lulling, organised a hearing on the subject on 28 april. the lessons we have learned are alarming, because the bee problem may just be the most visible part of a larger problem of pollinating insects, entomophagy and soil fauna. so the gaucho and regent molecules could be harmful, not just to bees but to a much wider environment. and we're not stopping there! since molecules are present in agricultural products used for human or animal food, there is also reason to be concerned about our own health. this is why, in the face of this risk of widespread poisoning of the ecosystem - and perhaps of people - we demand the application of the precautionary principle. i have just heard the commission's replies to the oral question by mr souchet and mrs lulling. i think it's way too much of a wait-and-see. the precautionary principle implies, in our view, that the use of the products in question should be prohibited, at least for all honey crops. measures will also have to be taken to ensure that beekeepers are compensated and able to rebuild their hives.
in writing. - the von wogau report therefore proposes to regulate and moralize arms exports. it is the same as trying to moralize murder, robbery, or kidnapping. the very fact that major powers are spending colossal sums on weapons of mass destruction is a sign that the current organization of society is barbaric. the governments of the major nations, responsible for criminal wars from iraq to afghanistan, accomplices of state terrorism in palestine, would like to exclude from access to arms a number of smaller countries whose regimes they dislike, organisations considered to be terrorist and organised crime. but even that turns out to be impossible. in your economy where arms dealers are willing to sell the rope to hang them as long as it brings them profit, how do you stop them from circumventing administrative controls? and when the report welcomes the french initiative to propose an international code of transparency or refers to the european union's code of conduct on arms exports, the ridicule is added to the ugliness of the countries, which are among the world's main arms exporters and are periodically shaken by political and financial scandals involving high-ranking politicians and arms dealers. (explanation of vote by qualified majority, pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
- (nl) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, several of my colleagues have already drawn attention to the precarious economic situation and called for structural measures to be taken. yet, we are bombarded daily with conflicting news. in belgium, people were hit hard by the announcement this week that 3,000 workers at ford genk would soon lose their jobs. the fact that a drop in sales of a particular car model can have such an impact, that substantial investments promised have been cancelled and that all these jobs disappear at once can also have a considerable impact on the rest of europe. today's front page of a leading newspaper was entitled 'ford: an inevitable demise in europe?' i do not intend to go into this further, but i would nevertheless like to call on you to come up with realistic solutions which no longer give the impression that employment is a futile toy in the hands of the capitalists. people feel like they're being laughed at these days. another concern that was expressed was related to peace. you know that our concern about the situation in the middle east is growing day by day. since the war in iraq, peace has not been restored. we would like the united nations and the european union to be able to play their part in these countries, but we regret to see that the whole region seems increasingly convinced that it can provide military solutions. the fact that a wall is now being built, partly even in occupied territories, to isolate israel from the palestinians undermines the intentions of the phased plan. the fact that new settlements are still being planned undermines the phased plan. where does this plan lead? it's leading to a dead end. we have to act. we must monitor this plan on the ground and we must ensure that tensions do not escalate further. what has happened since the terrible attack in haifa, an attack which we deplore and condemn, and which goes far beyond the borders of syria, is simply an invitation to a new military escalation. in turkey, the decision of the turkish parliament to send turkish soldiers to iraq was against the will of the people, but it was stopped under american pressure. it is also against the will of the provisional government and the iraqi kurds and clearly wants to be a threat to the pkk. the turkish people rightly fear that this decision will trigger a new spiral of violence. the iranian regime, while facing harsh criticism from public opinion within its borders, is also reaping the benefits of the situation in iraq. they are the winners. they gained greater influence over their shia co-religionists, not only in society but even in government, and they now lobbied to eliminate the mujahideen. this is again an attempt to impose a military solution, or in other words a false solution, while we continue to discuss a road map for peace. i urge the european countries, the commission and the council presidency to work out answers to these pressing questions. can we, in these circumstances, continue our cooperation with israel without attaching any conditions to it? can we maintain the application of the association agreement? can we continue to turn a blind eye to the obvious presence of nuclear weapons in israel, which are kept in reserve as a political lever, but also as an alibi to make it easier to wage conventional wars? isn't that where we should be looking for weapons of mass destruction? shouldn't the atomic energy agency step in and do its job? i therefore call for a less resigned and more active attitude on the part of the quartet and i hope that we can still stop the spread of war and that we can really take the road to peace again.
- (it) mr president, after having underestimated for many years the problem of the risks posed by illegal immigration, the european institutions finally seem, albeit belatedly, to be taking an encouraging line by taking the necessary steps to improve the effectiveness and balance of all the policies designed to deal with and combat the challenge of illegal immigration. the council must therefore move forward - this is what the lega nord is asking it to do - by following, among other things, the impulse of the italian presidency. we have listened with pleasure to the clear and precise report on this subject by mr antonione, representative of the italian presidency, on the lines emerging from the work and discussions of the justice and home affairs council: a strong proposal for the creation of an agency for border control, especially maritime borders. mr tajani rightly stressed the importance of our country's 700 kilometres of coastline, which is situated at the southern limit of europe. then there is the policy of quotas, and therefore of integration, which must be dealt with in terms of employment and certainly not with the help of demagogic proposals, such as that of mr fini to grant the right to vote to non-europeans: that would be a mistake, this proposal is inappropriate, out of place, it goes in the opposite direction to that of a serious and concrete commitment - the direction in which the european institutions have embarked - which intends to work against illegality.
- (es) mr president, the president-in-office of the council has made a statement which may seem positive, but which worries me very much. you spoke, mr president-in-office of the council, of new joint initiatives at european level on immigration. do you know why that worries me? because we have never reached agreement on previous joint european initiatives on immigration. i am very concerned to see the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs increasing its workload on european initiatives in this area, without achieving any results. only one directive (among those proposed by the commission), only one, has resulted in agreement: the directive on family reunification. it is a set of exceptions - there are more exceptions than member states - a directive so weak that we shall see what parliament does with it. in fact, it has produced enormous frustration inside and outside parliament. we need agreement on what the commission has already proposed as a legal framework for the management of legal immigration. we don't really need new ideas: they're all on the table. i am also concerned that when we talk about new initiatives, we are talking about leaps and bounds. the commission has already taken a number of important steps in this direction, including the creation of a european fund for the return of migrants. i'm more confused than i can be. could someone please explain to me what the added value of the action for the return of immigrants is? could someone explain to me what the contribution of a european fund can be which cannot be set up at the moment by the member states, which have absolute powers in the field of return? are you telling me that they cannot exercise these powers because they do not have enough money to do so and that we need a european fund to do this in order to carry out this national power, which is to expel foreign nationals present illegally? i honestly don't understand. on the other hand, i agree, and i think it is a good idea, with the common management of borders. i believe that something must be done in this area and i agree to support the commission's proposal. let me conclude by saying that some of the border control is related to immigration and some to crime, as you said. i fully agree with the fight against organised crime and i would like to ask you, mr president-in-office of the council, whether in this area and in the context of justice and home affairs you believe that it will be possible to implement the european arrest warrant before the deadline set, as envisaged by parliament and the council.
- (nl) mr president, the next european council will be a further step towards a constitutional treaty. it is remarkable that the media always stress differences of opinion between governments, a point which has absolutely nothing to do with the real meaning of such a treaty for eu citizens themselves. it would be much better - as many are aware - to explain to citizens that the purpose of this exercise is to guarantee the same level of legal protection for every eu citizen throughout the european union and that this is possible in particular by incorporating the charter into the treaty. this is a fantastic result and deserves to be highlighted very clearly in the treaty. everyone agrees on 90% of the current result, but in reality too much importance is attached to the remaining 10% which cannot be very important, especially since the council has clearly stated that there is a consensus on the basic ideas. this should be the publicity for the convention's outcome. from the point of view of our relations with the outside world, the drafting of the constitution is also extremely important, because all third countries should know that the european union is an alliance of constitutional democratic states. this is an unalterable fact and nothing should be overlooked. we should make this clear to some of the balkan countries, as we are to turkey. it goes without saying that the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and european democrats is very hopeful that the structural reforms themselves will be judged from a broad european perspective, taking into account the interests of all and the need for clarity for the good of the citizens. let me say a word about the appointment of commissioners. it is often said that each country should have its own commissioner. it seems extremely important to let the outside world know, at some point, that if we discover that a commissioner has taken a national position, we will see to it that he is removed. the belgian karel van miert wrote in his memoirs that the moment you take the oath as a commissioner, you lose your nationality. whatever our decision on the appointment of commissioners, we must never forget this: never and under no circumstances should the appointment be given the impression that it is national in nature. i would like to comment on a matter of foreign policy. some things are working extremely well, for example the police missions in bosnia and herzegovina and macedonia or the military action under the command of one of our member states in the congo. however, we also know that major problems remain elsewhere, for example in west africa, where different outbreaks occur. as a civil superpower, we can play a preventive role in countries where violence has not yet erupted. our role is to put out fires in the surrounding areas. i would like to mention guinea-bissau, which urgently needs our assistance in the run-up to regular elections. europe's help will certainly be needed. i would therefore invite the council and the commission to study the possibilities of a peaceful peacekeeping intervention in that country. i hope that the council will show responsibility and solidarity. it would thus give a major boost to public confidence in europe.
- mr president, i welcome the publication of the commission's green paper on european space policy, which was prepared in collaboration with the european space agency. i think that this green paper shows that europe is aware of the importance of developing the space sector in industrial, strategic and also political terms. last may we had a debate on the future of this sector, which is facing a serious crisis linked to increased global competition and funding difficulties. the green paper, the bodrato report and the white paper announced today, with their concrete proposals, can be elements for overcoming this crisis and finally give a great ambition to an independent european space policy. in this sense, i welcome the success of the galileo programme and share the desire to develop community integration. but i hope that this integration will not jeopardise the space agency's autonomous capacity to coordinate and implement programmes. i would like to address two problems. the report stresses the need to create synergies between civil and military activities - i am sure mr bodrato will agree - while advocating the peaceful use of space, which i support; he wanted satellite systems to serve not only transport and the environment but also security, so that europe would have its own strategy, its own management body and its own resources. i'll take it! but i am convinced that space must serve primarily peaceful purposes: the needs are immense, whether it is the environment or risk management. europe does not have to follow the us model, which gives priority to research and development in the military field over possible applications in the civilian field. finally, one of the key aspects of an ambitious european space policy is financing. the report stresses that the provision of public resources remains crucial for the development of space programmes. there is a significant contradiction between the union's stated objectives and reality. the budgets allocated to space agencies in europe are stagnating. the united states spends six times more public resources on space than all european countries combined. it is urgent that the union should provide funding commensurate with the stated ambitions. community integration also requires this, and in my view only public funds can guarantee the long-term investment that is essential in the space industry, as well as the maintenance of high-level skills. this is a key condition for an independent, dynamic, technologically advanced and skilled job-creating european space policy.
- mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, european space policy is becoming a spearhead of european policy itself, because of the hopes it raises in relation to advanced research, new technologies, the economy and development. it must be realistic, i.e. exist in a way that is readable in the face of the space policy of the united states or the russians, and be a driving force for the european union. the report by mr bodrato, whom i congratulate on his work, has the merit of presenting this will. but in our view, it places too much emphasis on military applications which should not be the objective of this policy. we are therefore proposing galileo, which will be a purely civilian organisation, as opposed to the us gps system or the russian glonass system, which are under military supervision. we propose to take part in the context of article 150 of the convention under discussion, so that space becomes a full part of european policy. a common organisation at european level is needed and esa should be more of a tool for this integrated policy than an intergovernmental body. space work must be genuinely placed within the framework of the european research area and the main resources devoted to this subject should be pooled by the states of the union. all the actors in such a policy must be brought together, including the european parliament, which supports our space policy. these are proposals to which our group will pay close attention when adopting the white paper on space, which is due to be submitted to us by the end of the year.
- thank you very much, mr. santa. (the sitting was suspended at 8.05 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
mr president, commissioner, the cunha report has the merit of underlining the great economic importance, both for the member states of the union and for the partner states, of the 21 international fisheries agreements concluded by the community. although the european union is running a large deficit and has to import almost half of its fish consumption, a growing consumption, fisheries agreements alone provide a fifth of the total community catch, worth €1 billion, and are a particularly important source of employment both in european countries with a long fishing tradition and in their overseas partners. this production is carried out under conditions of control, supervision and responsibility which give european consumers strong guarantees of traceability and fishing conditions far superior to those which products imported from third countries can provide. these fisheries agreements, which are trade-related, are a good investment for the union and those who want to question their opportunity and stop their development would do well to read carefully the study carried out by the ifremer institute which shows that every euro we invest in this framework generates economic activity worth three times as much. the economic balance is also very largely positive for the partner countries. investment must therefore be continued and even developed, particularly in the context of our network of tuna agreements. as rapporteur for the eu-mauritius agreement, i was able to appreciate the importance of the mutual economic interests in this reference sector that our professionals have developed with a number of acp partners in the indian ocean and latin american partners. these agreements, which are sources of supply and processing activities for european countries and sources of employment and development for partner countries, must be strengthened and extended. and when the commission speaks of the need for coherence between the various community policies, it must pay particular attention to the coherence between the common fisheries policy and the commercial policy. for example, an untimely concession to the wto on canned tuna imports, as part of a general disarmament of customs tariffs, could jeopardise years of efforts and investment, break a mutually beneficial chain and lead to relocations that would firstly severely penalise our partners, but also ourselves. i would therefore like to draw the commission's attention once again to this matter, mr president, as our assembly did when it adopted the amendment i proposed to it when it voted on my report on the agreement with mauritius.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that all our colleagues feel the same way, as mr poettering, mr barón crespo and all the speakers up to mrs morgantini have shown. that was a first observation. secondly, when listening to mr solana, one feels despair, weariness, anger and a feeling of helplessness. i think we should have the strength here, following on from what mr poettering said, to question the following. in fact, the road map, and mr solana said it, represents the idea of a gradual progression towards peace. this is the idea of oslo, this is the idea that has been developed so far and i think that this gradual approach no longer works. what policy proposal could be made to oppose this gradual approach? if we take the view of ami ayalon and sari nusseibeh, former head of the israeli security services and president of a palestinian university respectively - we must say where we want to go and from there create a political shock - what can be the european union's proposal for political shock? in my view, the proposal should be as follows. the european union, that is to say all the european states represented on the security council, is proposing that the un general assembly, following the example of the idea of the creation of the state of israel, hold a solemn vote on the palestinian state. the decision was that the palestinian state exists with equal rights and duties to the state of israel. following this decision, the european union, through its members, proposes to the security council a military intervention force between the state of israel and the state of palestine. first, the security council decides, on a proposal from the europeans, the immediate disarmament of all military forces other than the palestinian state forces in palestine. secondly, the borders of this state are the 1967 borders and the council decides that the state of israel has two, three, four months, and the state of palestine has two, three, four months to disarm and to bring back from palestinian territory the settlers who are outside the 1967 borders. thirdly, the council decides that any border correction must be a negotiated, mutually agreed correction and that after a certain period of time the international community will take responsibility for removing settlers who are not in the territories where they should be and disarming the palestinian terrorist forces which have not been disarmed by the palestinian national authority. finally, the un decides that the return of refugees can only take place in the palestinian state for the palestinians and in the israeli state for the israelis, that is, the jews. i therefore propose that we create a real political shock, otherwise we will always be at the same point, with extraordinary moral strength, but powerless. we must take an initiative once and for all which will have very hard political and military consequences for us, but it is the only chance to help the palestinians and the israelis. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the wall that the israeli government is building reduces the already tiny west bank by 58%. it is a real economic and human aberration, but it is also a real political provocation. he scandalously equates all the inhabitants of palestine with terrorists. the wall will not protect israeli society from the violence and barbarity of suicide bombings against civilians. the construction of this wall means the possibility of a palestinian state destroyed, security for both peoples unlikely and any hope of peace in the middle east destroyed. by claiming to retaliate for the haifa bombing by attacking syria, in defiance of all international rules, sharon is taking responsibility for setting the whole region on fire and bloodshed. this murderous madness will only end under duress. the european union, if it so decides, has the means to intervene. the council must also freeze the association agreement for as long as the occupation continues. the european union can also demand the destruction of this illegal wall by referring to the famous road map. the european union must prevent the execution of the threats against president arafat. but unfortunately, it will only do so if the peoples of our regions are revolted by the humiliation, misery and despair of the palestinians and show their solidarity on a massive scale.
mr president, however atrocious the terrorist attacks in the middle east, whether palestinian suicide attacks against jews or israeli targeted attacks against palestinians, cannot conceal the essential components of the problem. for there can be no peace without security, but there can be no peace without justice. what is the fundamental problem in this respect? the question is whether israel, which has now occupied 72% of the former british mandate of palestine through conflict, is prepared to leave the remaining 28% to the palestinian people for the establishment of a free and sovereign state. after 35 years of military occupation, is israel ready, yes or no, to evacuate these territories and hand power back to the palestinian authority? if this is not the case - and it is regrettable to note that there is no indication that this is the case - then the attacks will continue, from reprisal attacks to reprisal attacks, from settlements to walls, to new wars waged in the name of the right of succession. we believe that israel and palestine have the right to security within recognized and guaranteed borders, but there is no point in mourning the number of victims if we do not propose a political solution. we can discuss what mr cohn-bendit has presented - and i am discussing it - but at least this project has the merit of existing. let's make it clear where we want to go. that is the condition for the settlement of this conflict.
- mr. president, our road starts in baghdad, the neoconservatives warned us. and by failing to prevent this american war in iraq, or worse, by supporting it, as most european governments did, we knew the increased risks of insecurity we were exposing the region to, as we knew that after baghdad, the next step could be damascus. for several months now, we have only had to listen to the speeches of the us and israeli leaders, the reproaches directed at the syrian regime: support for the iraqi baathist leaders, possession of weapons of mass destruction, chemical weapons programmes, sheltering of terrorists - all the fallacious arguments which were already used to justify the us occupation of iraq and which are now being used against the syrian leaders. the us congress is preparing a pre-emptive embargo against syria and now israel is carrying out pre-emptive bombing on syrian soil. all the speakers here condemned the attacks in haifa. of course, i share that conviction. but i would have liked to have not had to wait for mr barón crespo to speak before i heard him expressly condemn israel's violation of syria's territorial sovereignty. i would also like to hear a reminder of how difficult it is to talk about european foreign policy at a time when european countries are proceeding with a military occupation of iraq.
- mr president, the first question after the israeli raid in the heart of syria, the first of this magnitude since the yom kippur war, in response to the horrific attack in haifa by a young female suicide bomber, is whether we are in danger of entering a phase which is dangerous for peace in the whole of the middle east. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. however, what we are seeing at the moment is the slow and modest initial reaction from damascus which undeniably highlights the overall weakness of syria's current position. the lack of success of its appeal to the security council has shown its international isolation, which is added to its relative regional isolation since the iraq war and its military weakness since damascus stopped being supplied with sophisticated weapons sold on credit. the military decoupling with israel has been sharply accentuated, and there is little evidence that syria is taking the risk of military escalation in the golan heights area. the syrian response will therefore certainly be on the blue line, through the shiite hezbollah. this indirect response is not without risks. in this delicate phase, european diplomacy can therefore play a useful role as a firefighter for the two protagonists to help prevent the gears of a new regional escalation from being set in place.
- mr president, our history is a history of borders that are crossed, a history of walls that are torn down after they have been erected. because a wall, mr president, can be rebuilt, but not a life, i agree with mrs morgantini when she says that it is not enough to call for respect for international law. does international law allow a state to harbour terrorist groups that will attack the civilian population of another state? i'm asking you. i agree with her that we have a duty to intervene and i share her indignation that we cannot be satisfied with moral postures, as we so often do, postures which give us a good conscience, but good conscience, my dear colleagues, is the opposite of conscience. yes, daniel cohn-bendit, we need a political shock! i cannot allow that this wall is the same as the berlin wall, as i heard earlier. i'm personally against this wall, because i'm against the layout of this wall. but the wall that divided the same people into two cannot be compared with a wall that is destined to constitute a border, even if it is totally questionable. i would add that i am one of those who signed a petition against the wall, especially in abu dis. everyone is calling for a return to the 1967 borders and i am surprised to see that today people are passionately demanding what yesterday was equally passionately refused. because, in the end, what the most moderate among us are asking for today is nothing but a return to the clinton parameters, those parameters that were thrown down recently. commissioner monti has rightly said that hamas and jihad do not recognise israel's right to exist, as the suicide bombings show. we're at the heart of the problem. there is not, in fact, one conflict, there are four. there is a war being waged by the palestinian authority for the legitimate emancipation of a palestinian state. we support it. there is a war being waged by the state of israel for its security. we support it too. but there is also, it must be said, a colonial war being waged by some israelis and there is, we cannot forget, a war for the destruction of the state of israel being waged by some of the palestinian factions. and if you don't have these four conflicts in mind, you don't understand what's going on.
- mr president, the agenda included a debate on the situation in the middle east. apart from mrs kuntz, the only other item on the agenda was palestine. for me, palestine is not in the middle east. in french, it's the middle east. it seems that there is one country in the middle east that has completely disappeared from the circulation, and that is iraq. i do not intend to impose a debate on iraq, but i personally prepared an intervention on iraq. i would simply like to ask a question which i think is interesting in this parliament so concerned with human rights: what exactly is known today, in the light of international law, about the fate of the former iraqi foreign minister, mr tarek aziz? this is an extremely interesting question, perhaps to be discussed at our next meeting.
- under rule 144 i will therefore call one speaker for and one speaker against.
- i thank the colleagues who took part in this vote. i would ask you to remain in the chamber, because in a few moments we shall be receiving the head of state of latvia, a country which will soon become a member of the european union, for a solemn meeting. the explanations of vote will take place after the formal sitting. (the sitting was suspended at 11.25 a.m. and resumed at 11.30 a.m.)
in writing. - despite the good intentions, the report and the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking are not convincing. the major declarations on respect for subsidiarity are in contrast to the convention's proposals, supported by the european parliament, which entrust the court of justice with ultimate control. in a democracy, it is unacceptable for the court of justice to decide whether national parliaments are justified in opposing a commission proposal. moreover, the technique of the interinstitutional agreement, the respect of which depends on the goodwill of the institutions, is in itself a detriment to the legal quality and certainty which this exercise purports to seek. the elected members of the edd group cannot approve these texts.
in writing. - i voted for the frassoni report, "better lawmaking". pending the entry into force of the european constitution, which will bring undeniable progress in the transparency of community procedures and respect for the distribution of competences and the principle of subsidiarity, i believe it necessary to improve legislative practice within the framework of the treaties currently in force. in this respect, the interinstitutional agreement between the commission, the council and the european parliament is good news, because it offers more clarity and consistency while respecting the powers, procedures and general principles of our positive law. all too often the texts adopted by our assembly remain difficult to access for the uninitiated. we can do better, the interinstitutional agreement paves the way for such an ambition already mentioned in the white paper on governance. now it's just a matter of making it happen.
in writing. - considering the space industry only in terms of competition in a market, mainly with the united states, this report is quite symbolic. it is clear that he wants more use to be made of public funds, i.e. taxpayers' money, to help european companies to maintain or gain market share. and to make it even more effective, he advocates commands in the military sector, which would also allow industrialists to take advantage of the knowledge already acquired in this field and which would go in the direction of setting up a european military force independent of that of the united states. this military force is considered by some to be indispensable for conducting what they call 'peacekeeping operations' which are nothing but operations to defend the interests of european industrialists and financiers. such a report, with its clarity, is like an admission that the european institutions have no other goals than to mobilise public knowledge and funds in the interests of european private capital, in the space sector as in the rest. we can of course only vote against a report which is so full of these concerns.
in writing. - i supported and voted for this report which recognises the efforts made by some european states to ensure that space policies exist in europe today. the results are impressive! however, if we are to avoid serious difficulties and ultimately the law of the strongest prevail, we must move rapidly towards a controlled communitarianisation, as is the case in the field of research. it is not a question of 'doing instead of ...', but of enabling the implementation of european added value. space will increasingly be present in all aspects of citizens' daily lives. europe must be in space! space will always be a driver of industrial innovation. europe's industrial future therefore also depends on our investment in space. these are just a few of the reasons why i support and vote for it.
in writing. - i voted with satisfaction and relief in favour of the excellent report by my colleague, mr guido bodrato, on the green paper on european space policy. satisfaction, because what is at stake is european autonomy: a strategically sovereign europe must have its own military and space capabilities. the vote is a relief because it shows that the european institutions are aware of the concerns of industrialists and politicians in the face of the recent economic deterioration in this sector and the rise of our international competitors. europe will rise to the challenge of space if it takes strong action in the white paper to be presented in december and if manufacturers restructure themselves to become more competitive. to do this we will need a revival of public investment, otherwise our large groups will not be able to retain their human and technical resources and we will lose skills. this vote by the european parliament, after the decisive support given to the galileo and ariane v programmes, shows that the european union is able to defend its vital strategic interests and, beyond that, wants to contribute to the knowledge of the universe which cannot leave mankind indifferent.
in writing. - it is a joy to see the council, the commission, parliament and the national states struggling in attempts to regulate their sacrosanct competitive market. the concentrations which all claim to control are in fact only the logical outcome of this competition where the bigger ones naturally eat the smaller ones. and whether it is the commission or the national states that pretend to control these struggles between financial sharks is of no importance from the point of view of the workers. in any case, capitalist groups already dominate the economy and know how to influence and, at worst, ignore or circumvent the ridiculous decisions taken by the european institutions. what the report calls 'control of concentrations between undertakings' has no other purpose than to defend the interests of certain capitalists against others. at no point is it a question of controlling mergers so that they are useful to society, that they do not harm employees and consumers. at no time is there any reference to the dramatic consequences for the people of these factory closures, restructurings and social plans which accompany mergers. this is to express our absolute rejection of the concerns in the report which we voted against.
in writing. - the della vedova report is a significant part of the commission's ideology, which has been taken up in its own way by the liberal majority in this parliament. the real problems posed by the acceleration of the overall movement of concentration of enterprises are treated exclusively as threats to competition. the risks for consumers (high prices, opacity, etc.) or for the employees of these enterprises (transfer of production to the so-called social less, abandonment of activities, redundancies on the stock exchange, etc.) are not taken into account as such. as if free competition had proved adequate to these risks! in france, the latest mergers, from vivendi to air france, from alstom to péchiney, have shown how much the concerns of the national and european institutions are outweighed by the needs. for us, however, these are the first components of the general interest. taking them into account would certainly make a revision of the european merger control procedure interesting, but the option taken here remains a prisoner of the dogma of 'fair competition'. that is why we voted against this resolution, which by its deadlock insults the employees concerned and, more generally, all citizens.
in writing. - continuing its work on the revision of competition law, the commission is proposing a major amendment to the merger regulation. this initiative should be fully welcomed. for several years now, european companies, now joined by the community judicature, have been pointing out the shortcomings of regulation no 4064/89. the procedure for examining concentrations was too long and the notion of dominance was too vague: these two factors, to name but a few, were clearly not such as to enable the operations which were becoming increasingly necessary for the global competitiveness of european firms to be carried out. the commission proposal, supplemented by the amendments adopted by parliament, should normally enable the major european industrial groups to maintain their position and to play on equal terms with their american competitors. the commission will still have to demonstrate, in applying the new text, genuine european ambition, and to abandon the narrowly accounting approach which, until recently, led it to refuse certain industrial marriages. a legal text is nothing apart from the interpretation which is given to it. i therefore hope that the commission will start its own cultural revolution and, in particular, that it will abandon this procedural zeal which has done so much harm to european businesses and workers.
in writing. - i abstained on the resolution on the transfer of personal data by airlines to the us authorities in the case of transatlantic flights for the purpose of searching for terrorists or 'serious crimes and misdemeanours'. the european parliament, in the name of the protection of privacy, asks that these transmissions be suspended until an appropriate international agreement is concluded. the intention is good, but the motivations are exaggerated, and the result disproportionate. exaggerated motivations because the resolution overestimates the risks (this data is not so personal, since the interested parties have already communicated it to the airlines), and tends to restrict the categories of wanted criminals (why accept this communication for the search for terrorists, and not for murderers or rapists?). the result of european reluctance would be to prohibit airlines from communicating all the data concerned, which would put them in an untenable situation, and to complicate the indispensable fight against terrorism. i therefore believe that our proposals should have been reversed: to accept the disclosure of data for a transitional period, at the end of which a fair and transparent international agreement should be concluded.
in writing. - the european parliament resolution on the mass mortality of bees is rather disappointing because, once again, it merely mentions a possible link between these phenomena and the use of certain pesticides, gaucho and regent, for seed treatment. it proposes further studies and the setting up of an expert committee. as for the emergency measures, it merely calls, in a very vague and allusive way, for 'preventive measures with regard to the use of the new generations of residual neurotoxic products'. in the debate which preceded this resolution on 25 september, i considered that the latest studies, such as the practical experience of beekeepers, now show that there is a direct link between the death of bees and the use of these insecticides. this does not mean that other causes, such as general pollution in rural and urban areas, cannot have an influence. but they should not be used to mask the insecticide's effect. their use should therefore be suspended, at least temporarily, as a precautionary measure. i did not wish to mix my vote with that of the waiting party, but i voted for this resolution, which was also improved by an amendment by dominique souchet.
in writing. - beekeepers are sounding the alarm: bee populations have been falling for years to a level that puts pollination at risk. why the health crisis? the varroa parasite is probably responsible, as in germany in 2002, where it destroyed 40% of the herd. but the gaucho pesticides, bayer and regent's imidacloprid and basf's fipronil, are responsible for a very large proportion of these excess deaths. the german bayer had the audacity to sue the former vice-president of the union of french beekeepers for "defamation" in june 2003, but the facts are there: when honey crops, sunflower, corn or rapeseed, are treated with these pesticides in the vicinity of bee colonies, they show serious behavioural disorders and die en masse. the precautionary principle requires that these two neurotoxic pesticides be suspended as a minimum as a matter of urgency, pending serious in vivo studies, not in vitro studies, with expert bee biologists and representatives of beekeepers. compensation must be paid to the affected beekeepers and the unreasonable importation of foreign honey, which is sometimes cheated and always dumped, must be stopped.
in writing. - i am very pleased that the resolution which mrs lulling and i drew up in response to the alarming information we received from european beekeepers has been adopted by a large majority in this parliament. this resolution has the merit of clearly raising the issue of the serious consequences of the use of new generations of molecules with potent neurotoxic effects in the coating of seeds of large crops on bee health and human nutrition. parliament called on the commission to step up its efforts to combat inertial forces by making two main requests. the resolution recognises that the current authorisation protocols for plant protection products are no longer suited to the new types of molecules appearing on the market and calls for their updating by providing for new specific tests on bee health and the risks of food contamination, taking into account scientific studies on possible transmissions of these molecules throughout the food chain. the resolution also calls for compensation for beekeepers who have suffered significant production losses, and for aid to restore devastated flocks. the ball is now in the commission's court, which should aim to boost european honey production.
- thank you for your information, colleague. it is not the bureau but the college of quaestors which is responsible for these matters. of course, i will pass on your remarks to our friends in the quaestors and to the president.
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12.20 p.m.) the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very important one.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think that our group or myself can be suspected of being opposed to a debate on chechnya. i believe, however, that if we are to have a debate on chechnya, we must have a debate on the basis of a resolution. it makes no sense - everyone knows the situation! we are proposing that there should be a debate on chechnya, on the basis of a resolution, in the mini-session, that is to say in 15 days, because, in any case, if it is topical, we should have had this debate and voted in the last mini-session, whereas bolivia seems to me to be the topical subject on which the european parliament must take a position, on the basis of a resolution. so we do not want to discuss chechnya without a resolution and we propose that this be done at the mini-session with a resolution.
mr president, perhaps there is a way of reconciling the two positions: on the one hand, we would maintain the joint proposal of our two groups for chechnya on wednesday afternoon and, on the other hand, we would postpone the item on bolivia to wednesday evening, which means only in the presence of the commission. if we choose this solution, i think we could both speak out on chechnya and also say what we think of the bloody repression which has killed nearly 80 people in the space of a week, i remind you, in bolivia.
- mr president, i wanted to go back to what mrs corbey has just said about the second reading on medicines and draw your attention to the fact that we have very short deadlines to meet and that the price of medicines is not taken into account in this second reading, or even in the first reading. i therefore believe that we should not mix things up and that we should not be late, especially since the italian presidency ends in december and our work will be completed at the end of april. i would like to draw your attention to this point: it is essential that we have european legislation in the pharmaceutical field as soon as possible.
commission. – mr president, firstly i should like to thank the rapporteur, mrs redondo jiménez, for her report concerning the forest focus regulation on monitoring of forests and environmental interactions, and for her flexibility in presenting the compromise package designed to reach a second reading agreement. i would like to recall what forest focus is designed to do. the regulation aims to set up monitoring and reporting systems to help protect forests. sound political decisions have to be based on reliable information, and i firmly believe that we need harmonised and comprehensive long-term monitoring of forests at community level. this is also important so that the community and member states can implement activities agreed at international level. in addition to this core task of monitoring, i want to reassure you that the commission places great importance on the need to ensure the continuity of the measures covered by the two previous regulations concerning the protection of forests against air pollution and fire. for this reason, since early summer, the commission services have adopted a flexible approach in response to concerns expressed at the first reading stage by parliament and the member states. i am pleased to say that the commission can agree to the compromise presented by parliament and by the rapporteur, mrs redondo jiménez.
- mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate our rapporteur, mrs redondo jiménez, who has done a remarkable job, with the support of course of mrs wallström, the commissioner. this is a remarkable achievement, because we have finally, despite our initial grave concerns, reached this compromise agreement with the council. the european forest is very diverse: from the scandinavian forest to the mediterranean forest, we encounter completely different problems. this summer, southern europe was hit by drought and heat waves. it was therefore important to take account of fire prevention. it wasn't obvious at first. as mrs redondo jiménez has rightly explained, we must consider the forest in all its dimensions: environmental dimension with pollution problems, economic, tourist and social dimensions. we must compare our experiences, and indeed take advantage of the good examples of the scandinavian countries in forest management, but also think of the forest in the context of rural development. there is no doubt that many member states have to think about the future of this forest. the prevention of fires depends on the maintenance of agriculture in our territories. critics of the common agricultural policy should reflect on this. public information must also be developed in risk areas. finally, and above all, the restoration of destroyed forests must be carried out with intelligence, by selecting species adapted to the terrain and climate and more likely to withstand fires. the new financial framework for 2003-06 is therefore to be welcomed, with €61 million, of which €9 million will be allocated to fire prevention. finally, we will be able to exercise our full co-decision power since we will also be evaluating in 2006 what we have done. the negotiations were therefore very long, but the result is important for europe. we must continue our efforts because, as our commissioner has said, this is work that must be done in continuity.
- mr president, climate change, heat waves, environmental crime: all these phenomena have led to disasters this summer, which must be combated at all levels. this report is one of many. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the greens are nevertheless satisfied with this compromise, which has finally found a solution. we believe that this report should have been settled long ago and we are reassured that this programme will finally be able to be launched. it could have started as early as 2002. we would also like to recall that the measures in this programme are transitional and that countries which have not invested in fire prevention would be well advised to do so by the time of the review in 2006. we hope that the union will find a middle ground at the next review to strike a balance between the two members of the north, who are in favour of subsidiarity in forestry matters, and the south, which may be a little inclined to knock on the door of the european budget when problems arise. finally, we ask that biodiversity be a factor in the selection of projects because it is true that it is difficult to explain what biodiversity is, but in the forestry sector we know very well how important it is. so, in the context of, for example, reforestation, it has to be done by restoring this forest biodiversity that was damaged, or even completely destroyed, in the fires this summer.
- mr president, as you know, many areas of southern europe have been severely affected this summer by unprecedented forest fires. in its resolution on the consequences of the scorching summer, voted on 4 september, the european parliament voted by a very large majority for an amendment, initiated by my colleague gilles savary and 31 socialist members, including myself, insisting that the same financial means be returned to the european union as in the regulation on the protection of forests against fires in the community, in order to finance in particular the appropriate forest fire prevention facilities, such as firewalls, forest tracks, access points and water points. i am therefore pleased that the council, thanks to the persistence of our rapporteur, mrs redondo jiménez, is finally accepting, in part, the validity of our arguments. we shall have to decide tomorrow on two amendments which we are partially satisfied with. we therefore see a step in the right direction. but is it enough? forest fires should remain one of our political priorities, one of the symbols of solidarity between northern and southern europe. i therefore strongly hope that during the commission's evaluation exercise in december 2005, the question of an autonomous european budget line for forest fire prevention will be raised again, in close cooperation with all the actors concerned, forestry in the first place. we must therefore, without prejudice of any kind, examine whether the choice made today was not made at the expense of a comprehensive security policy, a policy which had proved highly effective and was a strong signal of the presence of the european union in our regions.
- mr president, what is quality bathing water and who decides? these are the questions which arise in the wake of the maaten report on the proposal for a directive on bathing water quality. should europe legislate in this area, and on what basis, given that neither public health nor tourism are community competences but remain the competence of the states? the only positive thing in my opinion is that the public is better informed. but why tighten up microbiological thresholds and not provide for any chemical quality threshold? it is also important to emphasise the difficulty of identifying all the sources of pollution, especially in estuary environments, located at the mouths of watersheds of a very large area drained by rivers. why extend the directive to water and leisure activities? will we eventually ban surfing, windsurfing, kayaking or rowing because the water is unfit for swimming? these activities are often carried out outside the bathing water and sometimes outside the bathing season. why centralize data on the commission's website, which seems unnecessary and costly? who takes their computer on holiday to see if it can swim in microbiological safety? local radio and traditional, easily updated, billboards are, in my view, more than enough to inform the general public. finally, the proposal to define the beach as a place usually visited by more than a hundred swimmers for at least twenty days during the bathing season is almost ridiculous. who will do the counting? as usual, of course, no one talks about the cost of the operations and the high economic impact of a ban on bathing. it is not for the directive to define the cases in which bathing will be prohibited, since this decision is the exclusive responsibility of the member states. subsidiarity must be respected, especially since the who has just published a practical guide on bathing water which could serve as a reference for the member states. we will therefore support the proposal to reject the directive.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, global warming is a phenomenon we all experience on a daily basis. the heat wave that hit us hard this summer is a reminder of the seriousness of the problem of greenhouse gas emissions. there is an urgent need for sustainable solutions. the european union must of course comply with the kyoto objectives and above all contribute to ensuring sustainable development for future generations. the proposal for a decision, voted on at this part-session, is an important element of the european union's greenhouse gas emission regulations. in addition to the environmental aspect, it should be borne in mind that governments and industry are leading actors in this area. the text in question makes it possible to set up an efficient and reliable system for accounting for emissions and projections, which is essential for a european assessment that can be applied worldwide. to date, too many shortcomings and inaccuracies remain. as regards the current members, too much information is still missing, mainly on carbon sinks. the combination of environmental concerns, economic interests and governmental blockages is a complex exercise but relatively successful in this case. however, i would draw my colleagues' attention to one specific point, namely the flexibility prescribed by the kyoto protocol as regards the reference year for monitoring certain gases. we must depart from the commission's proposal, which proposed 1990 as the only reference year, and stick to the protocol, pending the amendments that could be made, as has just been said. apart from that, i strongly encourage my colleagues to vote for this text which provides a reasonable legal framework and a suitable timetable, combining flexibility and efficiency.
- mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and my colleagues on the environment committee, both on my own behalf and on behalf of my group, for working together effectively to bring forward compromise amendments to pass this report in a single reading. the emergency procedure was undoubtedly rigorous in the face of the terrible scourge of greenhouse gases and their consequences in terms of climate change, not to mention the impacts on ecosystems and biodiversity. the deadly effects of this summer were seen in august. i also welcome the european commission's proposal for a more binding mechanism for implementing our kyoto commitments in 1997. the protocol, adopted in the same year and ratified by the european union in 2002, sets emission targets for the contracting parties to be met by 2012: an 8% reduction. it will of course be necessary to specify the date of reference for measuring this reduction, without disadvantaging those countries which started their efforts earlier than others. the latest studies show that, unfortunately, emissions have generally started to increase since the year 2000 and, if the european environment agency's 2001 forecasts are to be believed, the overall emissions in the european union of the six gases considered to be responsible for global climate change would be 1% higher than in the year 2000. this proves that the legal instrument of supervision implemented within the european union, via its 1993 decision, must be tightened up, and this is the subject of the proposal under study and debate. it confirms that member states are individually responsible for the conditions of their participation in the kyoto mechanism. this is a good thing, provided that there is good coordination and real control. my group of course supports the new requirements for improving the quality and accuracy of policy and measurement information, including on emissions and removals of all greenhouse gases, not to mention methodological aspects. my group also agrees with the frequency requirements for the presentation of this information and i also think it is essential that the commission submits a report to parliament and the council following the annual review of the planned progress, measured on the basis of the estimated effects of policies and measures on emission reductions. like the rapporteur, my group therefore supports the request for the immediate application of the decision. we are asking that this exercise be given top priority. it is the future of our planet that is at stake and all the measures taken in the other texts, present and future, must be in line with the framework and standards set in kyoto.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have all been working together for two years now on the birth of erasmus mundus. i would therefore like to thank the commission, the council and all my colleagues in the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport for the work that has been done. with the erasmus mundus programme for the period 2004-2008, the european union will have a new instrument for exchange and cooperation in the field of higher education, with a view to strengthening links between european universities and creating a genuine european higher education area, the only one capable of attracting students, teachers and researchers from all over the world. i would like to remind you in a few words of the main actions of this programme. the first is to create 250 european masters, called erasmus mundus masters, with the label and support of the european union. these master's degrees, selected for a period of five years, will involve at least three higher education institutions from three member states. they will lead to the award of officially recognised double or multiple diplomas. students who take these master's degrees will have to study at least at two of the three associated universities. the second action is to create erasmus mundus scholarships for 4 200 students from third countries to europe. the amount of these grants is significant. it is on the same level as the fulbright scholarships in the united states. these students will receive an average of eur 1 600 per month for postgraduate study under erasmus mundus. the third action is directed at teaching staff. one thousand professors or researchers from all over the world will be able to visit european universities for teaching or research missions lasting on average three months. they will receive a grant of 13,000 euros for their mission. the fourth action is to develop partnerships between higher education institutions in third countries and european universities. these partnerships will be based on joint projects of a maximum duration of three years. they will focus in particular on the outward mobility of european students and teaching staff. the fifth and final action is the international promotion of european higher education. to make erasmus mundus known throughout the world, the european union will provide financial support for international promotion actions and the creation of services to facilitate information and access to european universities for students from third countries. finally, i would like to emphasize the priorities which have been defended by the european parliament and on which we have been agreed by the council and the commission. first priority: the name of the programme, originally erasmus world, has been changed to erasmus mundus, thus allowing a better identification with the european union. second priority: to preserve cultural and linguistic diversity, we have given students the opportunity to learn at least two of the languages spoken in the countries where the universities are located. third priority: we wanted the erasmus mundus master to take into account not only the quality of the training offered, but also the quality of the conditions under which the students are received. fourth priority: we also insisted on the recognition of diplomas and studies, which is essential if we are to make progress towards a european higher education area. the free movement of graduates within the union should be fully allowed. this tour of europe for students from third countries will be available to european students who wish to do so. finally, fifth priority - the fifth priority which we, the european parliament, have defended - we have reached agreement on a budget which is commensurate with the ambitions of this programme. the council of education ministers proposed €180 million for this programme. the commission proposed to allocate €200 million to this. parliament succeeded in securing a budget of eur 230 million for this second reading. i would like to say again, madam commissioner, how much i appreciated the positive spirit with which we all worked together, the european parliament, the commission and the council. i think we can be satisfied with the progress of the erasmus mundus programme. i hope that erasmus mundus will be as successful and popular as its little brother erasmus and that the europe of knowledge we all aspire to will become a reality.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it often happens in this parliament - i will not surprise anyone by saying this - that our debates are not very enthusiastic and that we deal with somewhat difficult subjects. as chairman of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport and having just left a sitting of that same committee where we were voting without you, mr rapporteur, i would like to say that it was with general and unanimous enthusiasm that the committee on culture worked on mrs de sarnez's excellent report. in fact, when we saw the commission's document, we thought it was an excellent idea and we agreed that the commission was almost shy in the margins. first, the budget. lucky we were there to boost it a little. i should like to say at once that the committee on culture of this parliament does not consider that the 230 million is sufficient and thinks that more will have to be added. moreover, if we look at the world today, the large number of large countries which, for reasons of international uncertainty, give the impression of closure, the fact that it is precisely in such conditions that europe chooses to open up completely is of quite extraordinary importance to us. we have also wanted to strengthen, consolidate and inscribe in marble the dignity of a diploma such as the european union's master's. the commission's text suggested rather that there were studies of some kind leading to the issue of a small certificate. we wanted to consolidate this title, this master. and then, mr president, we thought it very important to tighten up the text on the teaching of two living languages in the context we are dealing with. on the linguistic policy of the union, we have often protested in this house against those of our governments which failed to make the teaching of two living languages compulsory in their own countries. there's always a problem. all our pressure will be directed in this direction and we are glad to have found an opportunity here to exercise it. i would also like to say that opening up european culture to students from all over the world seems to me to be a very good adventure.
commission. – mr president, this proposal aims to authorise member states to ratify the 1996 hague convention on child protection in the interest of the european community. it is a follow-up decision to the decision of 19 december 2002 which, exceptionally, allowed member states to sign this convention in the interest of the community. the current proposal concerns the second and final stage of this procedure, that is, the ratification procedure. the scope of the convention, which was concluded in 1996 within the framework of the hague conference on private international law, is very similar to that of the council regulation on parental responsibility, which was approved by the council on 3 october and will apply between member states as of 1 march 2005. the new regulation creates a common judicial area in the field of divorce and parental responsibility. it contains specific provisions to facilitate cross-border visiting rights and to deter child abduction within the community. it is widely recognised that the convention would make a valuable contribution to the protection of children in situations that transcend the boundaries of the community, thus usefully complementing the regulation on parental responsibility. the similarity between the two instruments will facilitate the parallel application of the two instruments that share the aim of offering increased protection to children who are resident within the community or third states respectively. the commission would like to express its gratitude to parliament in general, and to the rapporteur, mrs hermange, in particular, not only for their continued support of the commission's work in the field of parental responsibility, but also for their enormous efforts in this particular case. the commission is aware that parliament has done everything in its power to speed up the procedure, including changing the date for the plenary vote from december, as originally scheduled, to today. the work of the rapporteur and the responsible committee has thus taken place under considerable time pressure. the commission takes note favourably of the amendments proposed and is extremely grateful for these efforts which will enable the council to adopt this proposal in early november, at the same time as the regulation on parental responsibility, thus ensuring parallelism between the two instruments.
the rapporteur. - mr president, our european area must work ever more towards the establishment of a harmonized judicial area, particularly in the direction of the weakest. this is where the debate on parental responsibility comes in. our parliament was consulted on this proposal for a council decision within a very short time, as you recalled, madam commissioner, but parliament was happy to comply with this, given the interest and the importance of the debate. i think we can only welcome this proposal, because this debate on parental responsibility is the result - i dare say - of the political will of a number of members of parliament - first and foremost my colleague mary banotti - who have been fighting since 1994 to bring the best interests of the child and the cause of the child into this parliament. the 1996 hague convention, although a classic legal instrument of private international law, has already been a strong source of inspiration for the drafters of the draft new regulation on parental responsibility. we already know that the ministers of justice of our respective countries adopted this new regulation on 3 october last, which should help to avoid endless legal battles to the detriment of children. the new text also extends the scope of application of brussels ii to all decisions concerning child custody rights, which is welcome since in several countries, notably france and germany, divorce and separation between binational couples continued to give rise to significant conflicts. the text will also make it possible to determine in a single text which court has jurisdiction to rule on divorce or on matters relating to children. so he's headed in the right direction. it should not be forgotten, however, that the thorny issue of parental responsibility also arises outside the european union and in relation to third countries. this is also why i support, in the same spirit, the commission's proposal to allow member states to accede to the hague convention. i am convinced that this convention can make a valuable contribution and a real added value to community legislation on the protection of children in cases which go beyond the borders of the european community. i would draw your attention to the fact that the overlapping scope of the convention and the new regulation will, i am sure, facilitate the parallel application of these two instruments. as you have seen, i did not propose many amendments, given the somewhat procedural nature of the commission's proposal. i think that the european parliament has not had the opportunity to make any substantive objections to the content of the proposal. this is an exceptional procedure - as i have stressed in my report - since the hague convention provided that only sovereign member states could be parties to it. this shows how important the role of our parliament is, since it is necessary to have an opinion from parliament before the member states can accede to the hague convention. i insisted, madam commissioner, on the time limits. the commission had proposed a much longer deadline: 1 march 2005. that is why i proposed in an amendment to bring forward the date by six months to 30 june 2004. i think you'll find no harm in it, especially for the sake of the children. i also proposed two amendments which would make it possible to refer to the charter of fundamental rights and the work of the european convention. you know that in the first part of the draft constitutional text, articles 3 and 4 state that the union will combat exclusion and discrimination and promise justice and social protection, equality between men and women, solidarity between generations and protection of children. it is in this spirit that i have proposed this amendment. we all know, madam commissioner, that it is not enough to lay down rules in this area, and we must not simply want to act in good faith, because we must constantly monitor the specific cases that are submitted to us. it is therefore necessary to ensure the effective application of the rules, but, since this is a matter for the member states, which remain sovereign in this respect, the european parliament will always have to ensure that the best interests of the child remain, in line with the recent conclusions of the un world summit on children, a paramount consideration, not only in all judicial decisions relating to children, but in all decisions taken by our parliament.
the rapporteur. - mr president, madam commissioner, i should first like to congratulate myself on the progress of this second railway package and, more generally, on the very remarkable work that has been done during this mandate in favour of the railway, because it is a matter for all of us here, no doubt with differences in sensibilities, to revive the railway, to give it hope again and to make all the railway players understand that europe is an opportunity for the renaissance of the railway and not a handicap for national railways. the first objective is there. the second is also to respond to public opinion, which will today judge us on our responsibilities, particularly as regards the fight against the 'everything by truck' which, in transit countries and countries at the crossroads, such as mine, is becoming unbearable and is creating considerable political tensions, such as those we have seen in mont blanc or those we are seeing emerging in the pyrenees. this second railway package has several dimensions. firstly, it has a very strong technical dimension, in particular through the report by my colleague mr ainardi, whom we support and whom i personally support without reservation, particularly as regards the setting up of a black box, which is his personal request; the report also sets out the main points of the sterckx report, which is also a particularly important report because it sets european safety standards. it is not a question of opening without a net: it is not an unprepared opening, it is an opening that we want to seal with the seal of security, which must be our permanent objective and our ardent obligation. in this respect, i am more nuanced on the relationship between national safety standards and european safety standards. i believe that security cannot be sacrificed for freedom. in railway matters, we know that safety is the main part of the railway worker's job, it is his job at all times. however, i do believe that we must not lock ourselves behind standards to avoid running other people's trains, and i personally hope that an agreement will be reached in this area, always with due regard for the need for safety. finally, these dossiers have a very strong social dimension, and for the first time: for me this is a great hope, because i am one of those who think, as i said, that the europe of the railways, which is very late in the road europe, is late because the railway workers have not yet understood that it is also the europe of the railway workers that is coming into being. today, however, there are significant advances. firstly, there is a breakthrough - i owe it to all my colleagues, to the commission's understanding and its constant support, and to the council as well - in this agency, where, for the first time, the social partners will be integrated. i don't think we'll have to complain about that. i believe this agency must be the railroad's joint house. this is why we wanted to involve users, railway companies, infrastructure managers and staff representatives. i personally hope that amendments nos 4 and 5, in particular the introduction of trade unions in article 3, i.e. in working groups, will be supported. i think that's quite a step forward. the sterckx report, like the ainardi report, also lays down the principle of the primacy of the social dialogue over the legislative activity of the union. whenever the employers and the unions can agree on a time limit, of course, we avoid legislation and legislate afterwards. and from that perspective, what just happened on the driver's license is absolutely historic. we have an agreement for the first time between the 32 railway companies and the trade union representatives, which will lead to a text which will naturally guide the commission's hand and which will naturally be much more legitimate than if this agreement had not existed. all this, i hope, foreshadows tomorrow and soon enough a collective agreement of railway workers for the whole of europe: i am convinced that this would be the liberating condition of a railway europe and of a very rapid construction of this railway europe. then there is the dimension of liberalization, on which i am much more nuanced than my colleague, georg jarzembowski. i'm not sure it was absolutely useful to scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, and scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll. why would you do that? because i am not sure that liberalisation is the only condition for the construction of rail europe. i am even sure of the opposite, because i believe that while it is important to ensure the free movement of trains in all the member states, there are many other conditions that are not met if rail is to regain its preeminence and be able to compete with road transport. i am also not sure that the traveller file should have been opened prematurely, simply because we are doing it blindly. for me, it makes no sense to set a date when i do not know what the issues are behind it, and in particular the economic issues. i regret that we are slipping towards a reconciliation of all the dangers, because the closer we get to the elections, the more likely it is that the council will reduce a number of positions. i'm sorry, but we'll go together, dear georg, since we've all decided that it's a railroad package. finally, i would like to say to the commissioner that we attach great importance to the budgetary aspect of things. and i am concerned that the eurovignette directive falls short of the ambitions of the white paper, as it will allow national taxation policies to be implemented with, probably, a lot of contradictions as to the levies but also as to the allocation of these funds. i would have preferred a system at european level to the swiss one.
commission. - (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by saying that the work on this second railway package is progressing very satisfactorily. it is certainly worth discussing this subject in the morning, in the light of day and in the presence of the stenographers. it should be noted that we are actually working in daylight. for once, we weren't relegated to the twilight hours. questions of this kind are usually reserved for evening sessions. i would therefore like to express once again my pleasure in dealing with them at a time of great parliamentary interest. i believe that this programme indicates that the importance of the subject under consideration is widely recognised. it reflects, in particular, the importance which this house attaches to it. i would first of all like to thank parliament very sincerely for all the work it has done over the years. as several honourable members have pointed out, we have been working together for a long time in the hope of breathing new life into european railways and ensuring the recovery of rail transport. i would like to thank all four rapporteurs for the quality of their work. i am one of those who would have preferred to have concluded the report on second reading. we are, however, moving towards conciliation. it is to be hoped that the amendments will be adopted tomorrow and that they will finally clarify the details which remain to be examined by the council. i am convinced that we will finally achieve a positive result for the railway sector. the final beneficiary will be european society. throughout this collaboration, we have been able to find solutions to most of the problems that have arisen. we have also clarified our positions and found ways of moving forward, leading to compromises and agreements. i would like to begin by answering mr savary. the commission's position on parliament's amendments: see minutes. the committee of the regions welcomes the commission's proposal to amend the regulation on the european railway agency. we reject only five of the 32 amendments tabled. in essence, we have taken this position for reasons of legal clarity or to avoid complications or excessive bureaucracy in the work of the agency. i think it is worth pointing out that the commission supports the amendments concerning the composition of the administrative board. the rapporteur has just referred to it. we also support the amendments concerning the composition of its working parties. i think a good balance can be found. i thank mrs ainardi for her work on such a technically complex subject. we have cooperated in an exemplary manner. i would like to point out that the commission is prepared to support the two amendments tabled by mr sterckx at the last minute. mr sterckx was rapporteur on the directive on safety on the community's railways, which has been the subject of a significant number of amendments. this shows parliament's willingness to make more rapid progress on this issue. we, of course, want that to happen too. however, some of the proposed amendments incorporate provisions already existing in the interoperability directives. others refer to provisions which will be included in our proposal on train drivers' licences, due to be tabled later this year. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. the council has already reduced these deadlines significantly. i therefore think that it is not a question of arbitrariness but of realism. the council had already reduced the time limits in the original proposals. a balance seems to have been struck. in this context, i insist that in order to succeed from the outset, the future agency must not be overworked. the question of national safety rules and their control at community level should also be mentioned. these are the most important amendments, especially in the context of the preparation of the vote in the council. i think the rapporteur has struck an interesting balance. we therefore support his amendments to article 8. i would like to thank mr sterckx again for his work. as regards mr jarzembowski's report, it should be noted that it has two parts. one concerns the transport of goods, the other the transport of passengers. we fully support parliament's amendments on the transport of goods. however, the need to reach a final agreement with the council on deadlines and eligible candidates should be borne in mind. i am, however, confident that this will be a positive outcome. i understand parliament's position on the matter of passenger transport. this house made that clear at first reading. i have informed the council accordingly. the vote in plenary at first reading was conducted in an appropriate manner. the commission also understands very well that this position was maintained during the vote in the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism. i would like to reiterate to the house that we understand the concerns expressed in these amendments. however, the commission has given the parliament and the council the task of presenting a proposal on the opening up of passenger transport to competition. the commission intends to present this proposal before the end of the year and the texts are practically ready. the final internal discussions are underway. the texts are more complex than they may appear at first glance. the document should be available to you within one and a half months. you'll have it by the end of the year. it is true that if the commission presents the proposal in time, it will not be possible to debate it during this parliamentary term. mr jarzembowski has rightly pointed this out. perhaps the debate could begin, but i am afraid it will be impossible to finish the first reading. i would like to inform the honourable members that the commission will be presenting the text. we are confident that parliament will begin work on it and that its successor (s) will conclude the work satisfactorily. we are fully aware of the importance of opening up passenger transport to competition. moreover, once the trans-european network is established, it will be essential to stop thinking in terms of national criteria about railways and to start thinking about european rail criteria. in the future, the geographical reference context will be europe as a whole, not one particular country or another. it will be necessary to think in terms of a comprehensive european network. therefore, all companies currently operating in the various countries of the union must have free access to this european network. once access is guaranteed, companies will compete with each other. this is the logical result of the actions taken. as soon as the railway legislation comes into force, the existing railway companies will enter into competition with each other. competition will automatically arise as soon as europe becomes the reference area, instead of a particular country. this is not an ideological question, it is a fact. this is simply a logical consequence of the type of measures adopted. this is one of the benefits of european integration. i also have to tell you that i am convinced that this type of competition will encourage railway companies to modernise. modernization is imperative. ladies and gentlemen, i am in complete agreement with you that the safety criterion is crucial and must remain so. safety must be the aim and watchword of rail transport. it must not be compromised by the other changes envisaged. finally, i would like to congratulate you, mr jarzembowski, on your efforts and on the work you have done. i understand your point of view, which is shared by a large majority in this house, but i cannot support these amendments. i can assure you, however, that the text on opening up passenger transport to competition will be presented before the end of the year. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteurs once again. mrs ainardi, mr jarzembowski, mr sterckx and mr savary have all done a wonderful job. i also thank the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism and the whole house. several points still need to be examined in conciliation procedure with the council. some of them may be problematic. it is to be hoped that suitable arrangements will be found. the second railway package could thus be finalised. the first railway package was closed during the current parliamentary term. if the second is completed before the end of this one, this parliament can be proud to have propelled european rail freight transport into the 21st century. this is a considerable challenge, but it must be met if europe is to have a balanced and sustainable transport system.
- (nl) mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, national states prospered in the 19th century, partly thanks to the railways. now, in the 21st century, europe must be put back on the right track. that's why this package is so essential. however, in the period between the first reading debate and today's debate, the facts have shown that it is still too early to support the high-speed rail system advocated by mr jarzembowski. the sterckx, ainardi and savary reports are more suited to present needs. my colleague, mr jarzembowski, is impatient and is already arguing for the accelerated liberalization of passenger transport. we are already seeing in some countries the damage it can cause to rail passenger transport in cross-border regions. for example, regular international trains are being discontinued. so the service gets worse in these cases. it is certainly not possible that in a united europe only crossborder rail traffic which is not high-speed will become more expensive or even disappear. i have already drawn the commission's attention to this in a parliamentary question and in its reply it shares my view, calling it 'an internal market anomaly'. try explaining that to the electorate. another urgent concern is the disappearance or alteration of the international train fleet, which is therefore not identified. i hope that the european agency will make a precise assessment of this park and that we will include this aspect in the debate on trans-european networks. we will vote against premature liberalisation without accompanying measures. mr simpson has pointed out the consequences of this. we propose to wait for the commission's proposals on liberalisation at the end of this year. that is when we should be holding this debate, mr jarzembowski, and i hope we can still complete the first reading here, so as not to waste this work. but let us concentrate first on freight transport, because it is urgent to get this huge traffic on the rails.
- madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to give our opinion on a timetable for opening up freight rail services to competition. the council's common position retains the date of 1 january 2006 for the opening of rail networks to crossborder freight services and 1 january 2008 for national freight services. it does not provide for a timetable for the transport of passengers by rail. it is therefore an approach characterised by prudence and the need to proceed in stages, which was adopted by the council. the rapporteur proposes to change this timetable, by providing for the opening of the network for all freight and cross-border passenger services as from 1 january 2006, and for all services on the entire network as from 1 january 2008. is this amalgam relevant? as far as freight transport is concerned, there is an urgent need to overcome the underdevelopment which characterizes it in many countries: poor quality of service, prohibitive costs, archaic procedures, repeated strikes and therefore missed deadlines. in this respect, the prospect of a properly modulated opening-up can provide a salutary incentive for the necessary national reforms, provided that very high safety requirements are met and the existing quality of passenger traffic is not compromised. but let us distinguish between freight and passenger traffic: the land-use planning function assigned to rail passenger transport and the public service mission conferred on it in several member states must not be the cost of a hasty opening. there is already a tendency for some railway companies to offload these public service tasks to local authorities and to neglect equipment and network on some major interregional lines, to concentrate exclusively on the most profitable lines. we must be careful that premature opening does not worsen this situation rather than improve it, accentuate this drift rather than correct it, or risk creating genuine railway deserts and territorial imbalances which neither the people nor the member states want. we therefore prefer the wisdom of the council's approach to the haste with which our rapporteur would like to get back to work. that is why we will support the council's common position that access rights for passenger transport should be dealt with in a third railway package on the basis of the conclusions, madam president, which can be drawn from a precise evaluation of the results of the first stage of opening up, in particular on safety, market shares and the volume of rail freight, the health of companies and the working conditions of staff.
- madam president, let me first of all congratulate all the rapporteurs on the immense work they have done over a very long period. it was essential, because we must encourage, not discourage, the maintenance, safety and development of our transeuropean rail system. liberalisation is certainly inevitable; she's coming. traffic must leave the road network. the immediate replacement of road traffic by rail can only be a positive step for the future. the development of high-speed trains is desirable; it's not to be deleted. in my own area - and i will preach for my chapel for a moment - we are fortunate to have retained some rail links. we have the railway line from belfast to dublin, but we have almost no rail links in northern ireland. the tgv is not a solution for us. we are already lucky to have regular rail links. there is even an attempt to abolish the important line from belfast to larne harbour. i can't understand this. at one point, as we were heading for the railroad, some people in my area tried to destroy it! we let this line get degraded; the safety of the vehicle is questionable and the rolling stock is in a deplorable condition. this is not a solution to simply increase traffic and freight on our roads. that's part of our problem. although northern ireland is a very small region compared to other parts of europe, we also need and want railways in northern ireland.
- (nl) madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for your work. i would like to emphasize the development of rail transport rather than safety, interoperability, etc. first of all, i think these reports are excellent. of course, the importance of this development of railways for the environment and safety is perfectly clear. the first railway package aimed to open up freight transport, in particular international transport, to competition and to fix a specific date. we fought hard for this and actually agreed at that time that we would not take up passenger transport until we had a separate document on this. i think that parliament is going too far on two fronts: firstly, in talking about liberalisation within countries and, secondly, with regard to liberalisation of passenger transport in particular. if this is a way of triggering negotiations, i can understand it. however, i think we should abandon this strategy immediately and wait for the commission to come forward with a proposal after a detailed assessment of the situation in certain countries, in particular the uk (privatisation), the netherlands and several others. these states are experiencing serious problems due to the splitting up of companies. it starts with deregulation and the division of companies. as an industrial engineer, knowing how companies must organise themselves, i say that it is essential, for example, not to abandon the maintenance of equipment and other elements. we should get back to it. first we should make an assessment, then we should have a debate on how to proceed with this type of liberalisation. i fully support the council's position on this.
- (de) madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the solution to the crisis in the rail transport sector will not be liberalization but the removal of obstacles to fair competition in the rail sector. it is urgent to put an end to social dumping. it is scandalous that the italian presidency of the council does not put the markov report on the agenda. it is scandalous that road and air transport companies still do not have to pay the social costs of their own transport operations. we need an internalization mechanism similar to the swiss model. the great decline in the railway sector is not limited to freight, by the way. do you know that a private passenger transport service such as the thalys high-speed line between paris and brussels is not profitable? in fact, all european passenger lines are currently losing money and liberalisation will not change this. in other words, we need less ideology and more political action. we need to invest in infrastructure, provide financial compensation for rail dumping, based on the model we have in the field of renewable energy sources, where we subsidize losses to compensate for the fact that producers of energy from non-renewable sources do not pay for the impact on the environment, and finally put an end to social dumping.
in writing. - the commission's proposal, which is part of a new initiative by the french government to improve local economic development, authorizing france to extend the application of a reduced rate of excise duty on tobacco products in corsica is not a privilege granted to this french department - a department which, unlike the neighbouring islands, no longer enjoys the status of an objective 1 region. this specific scheme, which compensates for the extra costs of cigarette production on the island, is in fact a response to the urgent need to safeguard a sector of activity which generates many jobs. the retail sale of tobacco products in corsica is carried out by some 350 retailers employing an equivalent number of employees, and a sudden alignment of the taxation applied in corsica with that in force on the mainland would force half of the retailers on the island to simply cease their activity. that is why i will not follow the rapporteur who, taking into account only the so-called interest of the internal market and deliberately ignoring the problems of insularity, proposes a tax system totally unsuited to the situation.
in writing. - (nl) i generally support the derogations voted for in favour of the so-called outermost regions. these derogations are justified when an attempt is made to give the islands a starting position more comparable to that of the mainland, by compensating for the necessarily higher transport costs over long distances to the centre of the state of which they are part. this type of derogation is not applicable in this case. what is needed to protect in the azores or martinique is much less relevant in the case of corsica, which is less remote. cigarettes are produced on the island and the price is kept low for local consumers and tourists. the excise duty rate of 32% is almost half of the rate applied in france and is also 57% below the minimum rate set for the eu as a whole. this derogation is a relic of the regime of emperor napoleon i - who was native to the island - which dates back to 1811. maintaining this derogation until the end of 2009 is not in the interest of public health. i certainly do not deny the people of corsica, who speak a language other than french, their right to greater autonomy and even the right to secede, but i do not want to buy their favor by keeping the price of an unhealthy stimulant artificially low.
in writing. - (sv) we have voted for compromise amendments 22 to 33 to the report on the monitoring of forests and environmental interactions in the community (forest focus). we are extremely hesitant about increasing the contribution of community forestry policy. we believe that the basic conditions within the eu are so different that the added value of such a community policy can be called into question. and ideally we would prefer not to see fire prevention measures mentioned in this regulation, since such measures have no place in this environmental monitoring programme. moreover, they could potentially consume considerable resources at the expense of other areas of surveillance. on the other hand, fire prevention is part of the eu rural development regulation and must remain so in the future.
in writing. - (pt) the main question raised during the debate was whether fire prevention should be covered by the rural development regulation or whether it should be reintroduced in forest focus. in fact, fire prevention was included in the rural development regulation in 1999 (see the forestry chapter). our group, the union for a europe of nations, rightly supports the rapporteur's wish to include firefighting and fire prevention in the framework of forest focus and to increase the relevant budget significantly. although some member states, especially those in northern europe where climatic conditions greatly limit the problems of fire, have expressed their opposition to this reintegration, the terrible spectacle of the fires last summer obliges members to vote for this increase in appropriations and for a 'fire capacity'. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which i consider to be a satisfactory compromise, which is further strengthened by the amendments which have been tabled and adopted.
- (it) mr president, we were in the future and you, mr president, had become the honorary president of the great party of pensioners, which had won 30% of the votes throughout europe. you came to me as your honorary president and, taking me by the hand, said: 'dear mr fatuzzo, not only must you vote, and i advise you to vote for mrs de sarnez's report which provides for the establishment of erasmus mundus masters which will enable cultural exchanges between young people, but you must also propose the establishment of fatuzzus mundus masters for the elderly - i repeat: fatuzzus mundus senior masters - so that there can be intercultural exchanges between the retired, who would love that. "will this be a dream?
in writing. - (pt) although the european parliament agrees with the commission on this issue, it wants to increase the budget to €230 million, whereas the council proposes only €180. it should be noted that this programme goes beyond the traditional erasmus programme, covering europe and the rest of the world, as well as master's and postgraduate courses. we know that the underlying argument is to integrate european higher education systems to form a european education market, where postgraduate courses will play a leading role. on the other hand, we already know from our experience of other projects, including the traditional erasmus programme, that disadvantaged students tend to be doubly discriminated against and excluded from these programmes, which do not provide for full reimbursement of costs. i mean, the difficulties in raising the amount of funding for this programme prove that there is no intention to remedy such discrimination and that a number of conditions that we are opposed to will be met. what we really need to know is not so much which universities will provide such courses, but to whom they will be provided. the amount allocated to scholarships and the 'quality of student reception' already mentioned here is well below what is needed to expand the social base from which erasmus students and teachers come. this is a matter of regret for us.
- i was in paris, mr president. a night at the moulin rouge, cabaret, dancing, naked dancers, with feathers, as it should be. that's great! there, among these hundreds of dancers, the only male dancer appears. i look at him, and it's mr. mauro, dancing with the grace of fred astaire and singing with the voice of frank sinatra. at a certain point, the music stops and mr mauro, a dancer at the moulin rouge, turns to me and says: "the electronic twinning of universities: this is what my report will make possible". could i vote against this report, mr president, after mr mauro's achievement?
in writing. - (pt) this report sets out the plan to be used to endorse and implement the policy of restructuring in situ training methods and the means of producing teaching and learning materials (which now falls within the sphere of competence of the multimedia industry). this is in response to the example set by the experiences and policies of countries that have gone further along the path of privatising schools and commercialising education. in these countries, the companies that provide such goods and services are more experienced and have already accumulated considerable economic weight and cultural influence. the support given by this report to measures which de-structure conventional modes of education, in particular in situ education, is apparent in several respects. these measures are combined with the underfunding of educational institutions to facilitate the dismantling of public education systems. in addition, they open the way for private organisations to provide informal educational methods, such as distance learning, which have little value as an educational qualification, and for ad hoc contracts with workers trained in such informal 'educational systems'. doubts remain as to the composition of the commission's advisory committee, although it naturally includes 'experts', thus circumventing the representative authority of governments. the explosion of programmes such as elearning, leonardo, socrates, and so on, tends to reduce the room for manoeuvre, the authority of each member state, of each educational institution. these programmes reduce the very purpose of education to a secondary role or to a means to other ends.
in writing. - (pt) i voted in favour of this report, which is part of the european community's strategy to meet the requirements of the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) and the kyoto protocol. i would remind you that in kyoto it was decided that the union should reduce its gas emissions by 8% compared to 1990 levels over the period 2008-2012. adopting this monitoring mechanism, in the form proposed here, is a fundamental condition for achieving the sustainability targets that the union has set itself, first in copenhagen and then in lisbon. moreover, the adoption of this mechanism now seems more realistic and reasonable in practical terms. it is perfectly true that the commitments under the kyoto protocol can only be fulfilled if the information provided by each member state is complete, timely, transparent and comparable, and if the national inventory systems are introduced simultaneously. significant progress was made subsequently, through the introduction of amendments to the analysis methods and cooperation procedures, the introduction of more precise (and reliable) provisions on the frequency of data transmission, and the clarification that only data of community interest should be provided. in conclusion, i welcome the fact that the european commission has decided to submit an inventory of greenhouse gases in the community to the secretariat of the abovementioned unfccc by 15 april each year.
- mr president, i too would like to express my gratitude for the substantial work that has been done on the budgetary procedure so far by the rapporteurs, the coordinators and, in particular, the chairman of the committee. i am very pleased with the commission's achievements so far. in one of the smaller budget lines, an increase was proposed for twinning of cities. i call on the commission to put an end to the annual bickering on this subject and to recognise that this is a relatively small budget line, but one which is felt and appreciated by many community organisations, which are dependent on it. as far as agriculture and rural development are concerned, i am in favour of increasing aid to the less-favoured regions, where agricultural production faces particular and substantial economic difficulties. i would like to encourage measures to stimulate rural development in general in order to target the resources available in the european budget more appropriately to rural areas, while ensuring that the right incentives are provided to promote the practice of farming and growing crops in the most natural ways possible. on fisheries, i am deeply disappointed that the council is apparently so reluctant to properly finance its own cfp reform programme. i am particularly disappointed that parliament's proposal for an additional €150 million to mitigate some of the terrible economic and social consequences of the current crisis in the whitefish-dependent regions has been blocked by some member states, in particular the uk government. i agree with the speakers who have commented on the stupid proposal to give us extra taxis' allowance outside the budgetary process. i cannot imagine how this idea can enhance the reputation of this house or make any contribution to activity-based budgeting.
- madam president, mr president of the council, madam commissioner, there are undoubtedly changes and innovations in this european budget for 2004: it is a budget, as it has been said, with 25 members, with a new nomenclature, based on activities, objectives and destinations. this is not necessarily an improvement in readability when, for example, there are 215 activities instead of the distinction between administrative and operational expenditure. the new feature of the abolition of the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure will also be added soon, and one of these days the edf will be budgetized. on that day, moreover, will we be able to continue here in the european parliament to expedite the debate in two hours and to expedite the vote on the 100 billion euro in two hours as well? there is a deficit of budgetary democracy here, and it is enough to see this assembly completely empty! there are also other budget deficits. first, the reliability of forecasts is lacking. the figures for the remaining balance are there: 6 to 8 billion euros of unused appropriations each year, which is a problem, especially when there is no money for beekeepers, sheep farmers, fishermen, etc. the budgetary justice is also lacking: year after year - it is a commonplace - there are winners of europe and there are losers of europe, and they are always the same! mr aznar's spain, which is giving lessons to the whole world on budgetary balance, collects royalties of €8 billion annually. without this, there would be no balanced spanish budget. meanwhile, others, the majority, pay: for example germany, for example france. in france, we lose between 2 and 4 billion euros every year, which is the equivalent of one high-speed train line every year! there's a problem! the budgetary priorities are also in short supply: it is right to allocate €200 million for the reconstruction of iraq, it is right to add €200 million for afghanistan, €240 million for turkey's pre-accession! but are these the priorities, when in 2004 the whole of europe could only find 600 million euro to build the equivalent of about 10 km of high-speed rail? why do we spend 640 million euros in afghanistan, turkey and iraq (which we were not obliged to destroy...), when we cannot build high-speed trains or major transport systems? this is a perversion of solidarity, which in turn reveals a fourth deficit, namely a deficit of coherence. this is a europe which, in lisbon, wants to be the world's leading knowledge power (nikita khrushchev wanted to be ahead of america as early as 1960!). this is the europe of erasmus mundus, which wants to be a planetary university, the europe of great works like pericles, the europe of universal foreign policy, the shiva with a thousand arms, cotonou or mercosur, in asia, in south africa, everything but arms, the poor and even the rich. but this europe the size of the planet has a provincial budget of €100 billion, or 1% of its gdp, which is not even increasing. in the contradiction between these global ambitions and the absurdity of this budget, the question arises as to where the truth of europe lies. the answer is in the budgets: year after year, europe is being talked about in grand speeches which, in reality, are short-lived.
- madam president, our two rapporteurs have indeed presented a number of challenges, but i would like to focus on three issues in particular: enlargement, reform of the commission and, last but not least, iraq. i fully recognize, as does my group, that the fundamental objective of this budget, as mr mulder has said, is enlargement. we wanted to ensure from the outset that a full budget would be available for the new member states and that commitments would be implemented with the greatest efficiency. we are nevertheless aware that many difficulties will mark our path in the day-to-day management of a union of 25 member states, particularly with regard to translation and interpretation. that brings me to the reform. we in my group believe that, as far as reform of the commission is concerned, we really need to make sure that there are signs that something has changed since 1999. we have therefore reserved the 272 seats. one of our main conditions is to carry out a review of the changes that have taken place and the measures still to be taken. the eurostat case and the questions on whistleblowers and the olaf position show that the commission is slow to seize the files in a dead-end manner. we would like to see this last point discussed separately on the basis of an oral question at the november part-session in strasbourg. as other speakers have pointed out in the debate this afternoon, our group believes that iraq is the major topic of our 2004 budget. i thank those who had the courage to vote in favour of our amendment. there are three reasons for this: firstly, we see this as a strong political signal to the outside world that europe is ready to play an important role in the humanitarian and reconstruction efforts in iraq. although iraq cannot be equated with afghanistan, we have allocated €1 billion to afghanistan for a period of five years and, taking into account the commission's proposal, we have allocated €200 million to iraq for an unlimited period. however, i read in the guardian, which is probably one of mr wynn's favourite newspapers, that the japanese government has allocated 5 billion us dollars over several years for the reconstruction of iraq, compared to our 200 million euros. secondly, in the light of last week's unanimous vote at the un and the revelation by the guardian that the us has agreed to allow a joint agency between the un development programme and the world bank to administer the funds, it is now becoming easier for us in europe to consider releasing larger funds for the reconstruction of iraq. it must be admitted, mr walter, that some countries are necessarily showing a more moderate enthusiasm because of their position on the war, but i think that the page has been turned and that those members of this parliament who look to the future - and who support america in this moment of need - will support the amendment of the epp-ed group. we are convinced that this particular amendment is not incompatible with the financing of the other posts and will not affect the current financing - the amendment itself states this. mr wynn, you have argued that the commission's proposal is not based on an estimate, it is based on availability. we believe that these funds will be needed in 2004. you also said that we are at the stage of first reading. we should actually be able to vote on our amendment within the limits of the financial perspective and, if our amendment were to be dropped, we obviously reserve the right, as a group, to judge whether or not the commission's proposal is appropriate. we therefore want to use this budget to prepare the union for enlargement, we want to ensure that the reforms of the institutions are completed, but above all we want a europe that fulfils its role on the world stage. we therefore ask the house to support our amendment to set aside €500 million for iraq.
- madam president, i would first like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, mrs gill and mr mulder, on the excellent work they have done. we look forward to continuing our cooperation both within this house and beyond. i would also like to point out that our committee wishes to maintain all the amendments tabled so far, in particular those concerning eurostat. i also welcome the proposal by the ppe-de group to put to the commission, during the november part-session, an oral question on the incredible flow of information within eurostat, the problems involving whistleblowers, the audits that have remained intact within eurostat and the lack of political accountability of the commission. we would also like to see our amendments on the committee of the regions maintained in the light of the olaf report which we have just read in the confidential reading room. according to the report, the inquiry into printing contracts revealed systematic and flagrant incompetence within the committee of the regions. as regards the financial controller, the biggest threat to the committee of the regions seems to be the endemic culture of unprofessionalism and improvisation, where lack of transparency takes precedence over openness, especially when it comes to accountability to olaf. the committee of the regions will have to answer a number of serious questions. if we had known about this when the amendments were tabled, my committee would certainly have been more severe, not only depriving the committee of the regions of part of its budget, but also putting a substantial additional amount into the reserve. we also welcome the adoption of the amendment tabled by mr bösch on exports of live animals and i know that our rapporteurs are actively working to achieve results in this area. i would therefore like to end as i began, thanking the rapporteurs.
the rapporteur. - (nl) madam president, i would like to thank all those who took part in this debate and thank each of you for your comments, whether encouraging or not. this is part of a normal debate. you'll see that i can't answer every one of you. i would like to return to the main points. in any case, i am satisfied with the comments made by mrs schreyer, who says that, compared with previous years' budgets, this year's budget represents only a very modest increase compared with the council and commission proposals. i very much appreciate your statement that the commission accepts the initiatives taken in the agricultural field. i think that's a good thing. once again, i hope the council will accept them too. for greater security, this parliament has amended all the preparatory actions and pilot projects in categories i and iii, in case the council rejects the category i actions. i can only recommend that you try to finance it from category i. the margin is higher than for category iii. mr garriga and mrs dührkop expressed their concern about the development of the codecision procedure on lines a30 etc. i share that concern. i hope that by the end of the year we will not face serious difficulties in continuing to finance these projects. i think it is of the utmost importance, for the reputation of the european union in general and in the interests of all that we fund, that these programmes continue. i also think that we should not legislate in haste. it seems to me that the commission would be well advised to consider as soon as possible the possibility of a transitional period, so that we can continue to finance the projects we have financed in the past. as regards the issues raised by various speakers, i would like, as rapporteur, to insist on maintaining the financial perspective as agreed. i can only hope that we will not exceed these prospects in the vote, particularly on category 1b. i agree with terry wynn, of course, that this is only the first reading. however, i think we should respect this principle as much as possible, even in the first reading. mr dover, who is no longer in the house, expressed doubts about the need to maintain the many languages of the european union. this is a recurring theme in many of the speeches. i think we should simply respect the treaty. i think mr terry wynn has given an excellent account of the problem, both in relation to category 1b, which i have already mentioned, and in relation to the iraq question. i think we should simply wait for the outcome of the vote and decide what we should do on that basis. mr ferber and many other speakers also stressed the importance of the information points, a subject which i myself have already mentioned. on this point too, i believe that the commission must quickly put forward proposals to avoid causing irreparable damage to these information points, which are held in high esteem by european public opinion. even with new financial regulations, steps must be taken to keep them in place. as far as mr kuckelkorn is concerned, i am satisfied so far with the level of cooperation with regard to the agencies. i hope it will continue to be so in the future. two remarks on these agencies, on which a decision will probably be taken on thursday: the inclusion of 10% in the reserve and discussion of the agencies' organisation chart. i hope that all this can be done in close cooperation with him and the agencies, so that the whole issue can be resolved before the second reading. the aim is not to cause unnecessary difficulties, but parliament must be able to exercise its democratic powers properly. in reply to mr bartho pronk, who is no longer in the chamber, i can say that the guarantee funds for small and mediumsized enterprises will also apply to those of them active in the field of health and safety at work. there's nothing to it. finally, i turn to mr goodwill, who was surprised to see that we were giving the european environment agency additional tasks without giving it new resources. we have consulted closely with the agency, which believes it is able to carry out these additional tasks within the framework of the draft budget we have sent to it. if that is the opinion of the agency itself, who am i to give it additional funds? that is why i have taken this position. i hope to continue this good cooperation with each of you and i would like to thank once again all those who have contributed to this debate.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. first of all, i would like to thank mr mulder once again for his kind words. i believe that we can probably continue to cooperate very well in the next stage of the budgetary procedure. mr perry, a brief word on your remarks on the accounts. we have a bookkeeping system that's regular. we receive confirmation from the court of auditors every year that the accounts correctly reflect the income and expenditure and the balance at the end of the year. we're modernizing it, but this accounting is regular. the question of the info points - because several speakers have mentioned it - is not a question of the legal basis. it is not the same subject as the a-30 lines, for which a legal basis seems necessary, but it is a means for which the commission has a prerogative, namely the means of information. there are various aspects here which, to my knowledge, have also been discussed in the committee. i must point out that there are a thousand information points which operate without loans from the commission budget, so we should not forget them. the other question will be dealt with by a group of commissioners and then prepared for the next meeting of the interinstitutional group on information policy. on the question of the a-30 lines and the basic legal acts, i would like to refer again to various speakers and, of course, particularly to mrs dührkop dührkop, who is doing the most intensive and difficult work here to show the committees how urgent this legal basis is. i do not think it is acceptable that the council does not give sufficient weight to this question. we just have to keep the time horizon in mind. if a transitional solution were to be adopted now and the council said: 'well, that's fine, we don't need to move at all', then we would soon be faced with the situation that parliament would have its last session before the next european elections, before a new legal basis exists. i also think that the attitude which some in the council have adopted, which is to say that these subsidies are in the interests of parliament, is absolutely wrong. it is of course also in the interest of the member states to secure the subsidies for institutions such as the florence institute or the bruges institute, to name just two. it is in the common european interest to do so, and it is therefore in the common interest to adopt these legal bases as soon as possible. i would like to conclude by returning to the very important question of aid to iraq. we had this difficult situation of the european union being divided over the question of military intervention. we are in agreement that we want to help people not only with humanitarian aid, as we did this year, but also to participate in reconstruction as members of the european union. but at the same time we are in a situation where we are acting under uncertain circumstances. who among you can say what the situation will be in six months' time, for example? we have the situation that a few weeks ago the united nations also withdrew its personnel from iraq. any help we decide to give here has to be implemented locally. it's also about making something realistic. mr elles, for afghanistan it was a five-year commitment. the point is to make a commitment at this moment, by the end of the year. i would ask you to look at this again. let us assume that the amendment of eur 500 million is adopted, what commitment should the commission make in madrid when we have the council's statement of eur 200 million at the same time? if you do not want to cut it in category 4, it will soon have to come from a higher reserve of flexibility, and that can only be decided jointly. this means that the commission would be in a situation where it could not make a firm commitment in madrid. i therefore ask you to reconsider this. the question of the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr terence wynn, who asked me specifically about a supplementary budget: mr wynn, it is not unlikely that there will perhaps be another donor conference next year, especially in view of the hesitation of the member states. i would therefore like to ask whether there is any possibility that parliament might now decide at first reading to make a declaration on the 2004 budget, requesting the commission to submit a report on the implementation and evaluation of this aid by the middle of next year. if there is a change in the security situation and if other political issues are resolved and if the aid can actually be delivered on the spot, then it will be possible to consider whether to take a different decision on the amount. i would like to ask the commission to give a clear mandate for the donor conference and to make it very clear that the european parliament and the european union are now speaking with one voice on the question of aid.
in writing. - (nl) madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, are we going to help iraq? we are talking about 160, 200, even 500 million - as if it were nothing. whatever happens, i want to make it very clear that development aid funds cannot be used in this matter! the fight against poverty is the primary objective of european development cooperation: this is what the funds should be used for. in my view, the reserve and the flexibility instrument are the appropriate sources of european contribution in iraq. as rapporteur, i advocated the modification of the nomenclature of the budget lines devoted to development cooperation with asia and latin america. the majority of people living below the poverty line, on less than one dollar a day, are still in these two regions. these budget lines should be allocated to development cooperation, not external action. the allocation of the budget must be based on activities and not on the internal structure of the commission. another point is the know-how within the eu delegations. if we can raise the bar through training and additional investment, we will not only achieve the 35% target for social infrastructure in developing countries, but we can also ensure that at least 20% of this is spent on primary education and health care.
- mr president, this text expresses a lot of good intentions against violence against women. yes, it is outrageous that in the 21st century women can be stoned, mutilated, burned, forced into marriage, forced into sexual slavery, trafficked or so-called honour killings. but the report is full of good intentions and the annexes on the case of half a dozen countries where such practices are taking place are very telling. despite the fact that respect for women's rights has been included in various political and trade agreements, not only has there been no follow-up in the countries concerned, but the european union has not suspended the agreements binding it to these countries. trade rights are more important than women's rights. in reality, the continuation of barbaric practices is done with the complicity, at least passive, of countries supposedly civilized. moreover, if the european union is to be a champion of women's rights and credible elsewhere, it should already be able to force all its member states to recognise the basic right of a woman to have her own body, including the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is after essential partnership work with the various political groups and with the commission and council representatives that we have come to this text which will be put to the vote tomorrow. we can be satisfied with this report which puts consumer protection at the heart of our common concerns. by significantly reducing the levels of cyclamate in beverages following an assessment by the scientific committee, we are meeting the requirements of european citizens in terms of consumer protection. the commission's commitment to reassess all sweeteners in the near future is also in line with our objectives, because we know that in this area we need substantial statistical information and that our positions must be reviewed regularly in the light of new data. i understand my colleagues in the green group who want to put a special emphasis on aspartame. but in this connection, it is necessary to take account of the recent evaluations which have taken place, both in france and in the united kingdom, and to consider that there may be no need to reserve a special fate for aspartame, knowing, of course, that its reevaluation is in any case planned in a more global framework. now, it is clear that we also have our weaknesses and the fact that we have not been able to agree on the definition of fine bakery products shows that the work is not quite finished and that labelling will still have to be the subject of future legislation. this aspect of the report also shows the place we intend to give to sweeteners in the diet. they are essential for treating certain diseases and i have received many letters from people with diabetes and other diseases expressing their satisfaction at being able to vary their diet thanks to the increasing number of products sweetened by sweeteners. these products are likely to be increasingly consumed by europeans, given the many alarming reports of a steadily increasing number of people suffering from obesity. yet this serious public health problem cannot be solved by sweeteners but by prevention. in fact, some studies have shown that the sweetening power of sweeteners leads to nutritional behaviours that increase the consumption of sugar or sugary products. we are all aware that the multitude of products for children, which are becoming sweeter and more varied, is not without its share in this public health problem. that said, i do not think i am straying from the subject we are dealing with here tonight because sweet products, with or without sweeteners, are interdependent. i know that the commissioner is particularly sensitive to this public health problem. let him know that we feel it's urgent to deal with the matter. in conclusion, i would say that sweeteners can be considered useful and that is why we are allowing two new products to be placed on the market through this legislation. but we must now make sure that they are only indispensable for an increasingly small number of european citizens.
mr president, we all remember the heartfelt cry of mr valéry giscard d'estaing, which he uttered here on 3 september last: 'never forget the citizens!' clearly, our heads of state and government have benefited nothing from this friendly advice. the picture they give of their discussions on the draft constitution is rather distressing and rejuvenates us: here we are again in nice. not that the issues are not respectable, but they are completely disconnected from what is at stake in people's minds, namely what ambition for the future union, what response to social expectations, what will to act to change the course of current globalisation. the discussions now taking place therefore have the unfortunate appearance of power struggles, which are alien to any mobilizing vision. i think the european idea is frankly better. i also think that certain remarks made by the president of the commission in his letter to the president of the council are not likely to arouse european fervour in our public opinion. the citizens, it says, are increasingly aware of the importance for the union of advancing the structural reforms decided in lisbon. what reforms are involved? the ones on pensions, on social security, on the labour market, on public services? but it is precisely this type of measure that is increasingly arousing, from rome to paris and berlin, employees, pensioners and the unemployed against this caricature of european policy harmonization. and what about the stated aim, i quote, in the same letter, 'to accelerate the adoption at european level of measures to exploit the potential of legal immigrants, while taking a firm stand against illegal immigration'. does this dual approach really reflect the concept of relations between europe and the south which we intend to promote among our fellow citizens? it will certainly strike at the young people who have made up their mind that another world is possible, a world without predators and without fortresses and for whom a genuine and voluntary policy of development, reawakening hope among the peoples of the south, must be the heart of the solution to the problem of survival immigration. but more generally, is it not time to show the whole of european opinion that the essentially utilitarian and security approach to immigration leads to a dead end which illustrates the intolerable repetition of tragedies, such as the one that has just occurred off the island of lampedusa? mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, i would like to conclude by presenting to you, on behalf of my group, a concrete, constructive and accessible proposal which would enable you to make one of those gestures which honour the union in the eyes of our fellow citizens, because they really bring to life the values which we inscribe in our texts. this proposal is about peace in the middle east. as you know, men and women of great courage, palestinians and israelis, have worked for two years on a new peace plan, avoiding any of the problems that have blocked all the official negotiations so far. among them are eminent representatives of the political, military and cultural circles, including the former knesset speaker known to all here, mr avram burg. this plan has just been made public. this afternoon we will be joined by two of its initiators, mrs naomi shazan, former deputy speaker of the knesset, and mr jamal zakoud of the palestinian legislative council. at 4 p.m., they will present their historic initiative to all members who wish to attend. before that, president cox will have received them and i would like to thank him for that. i propose to you, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, that you in turn receive them and even honour with your presence, in any case that the council and the commission honour with their presence, the solemn signing of this peace plan in geneva on 4 november, the anniversary of the assassination of yitzhak rabin. a gesture for peace, and what a sign of europe's identity.
- mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to say first of all that the criticisms which have been levelled at the outcome of the european council and the intergovernmental conference seem to me exaggerated, if not inappropriate. i would first like to say to the president of the commission that, for once, i am satisfied with his proposals, just as i am satisfied with the european council's proposals on the growth initiative. i believe that this initiative is essential, just as i believe that it is essential to combine private funds with public funds to enable our economy to develop better. but this would require all our countries at european level to take a number of measures to encourage private investment and, in particular, to ensure that the bureaucracy of the european commission and its consequences do not add to the bureaucracy of each of our countries. i think we are moving in the right direction. secondly, i would say that what has upset those who have stood before me is something that is rather reassuring to me. i would like to say that there is a certain naivety on the part of a number of our colleagues. there is a federalist majority here. it was expressed on the occasion of the approval of the work of the convention, an approval which was accompanied by a certain pretence, if not a great arrogance, to claim that the heads of state and government, who are in fact the only holders of national legitimacy in each of our countries, would not have the right to make any proposal for amendment whatsoever. similarly, it was very naive to think that the countries entering the european union would be satisfied with a strapon for their "almost" commissioners. so don't be surprised at the results you get. i think, on the contrary, that, as lenin said, facts are stubborn: you are faced with facts, act on them.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, the european summits are so high that they are probably in the stratosphere, as they seem light years away from european realities. you are arguing, mr prodi and mr berlusconi, over the authorship of a growth initiative, which has been the eternal sea serpent of european political life for more than twenty years and which will gradually be emptied of all its substance. as usual, i was going to say, i'm afraid president pasqua will be disappointed. while you have not had a word, i am talking about the council, on what has asphyxiated european growth and will prevent any recovery, in the euro area first the council should have expressed its wish for the euro to soar, which is plummeting our exports and thus making europe, the euro zone, the weak link in the world economy. is it only the g8 that we have the right to talk about money, with the consequences we have seen? as regards the constitution, without prejudging the results, it seems to me that the igc is returning europe to its institutional navel-gazing, without public opinion being able to perceive the stakes, something that the convention had avoided, whatever one might think of the results of its work. so, mr berlusconi, you who have been able to be inventive in your country and renew political life by inventing forza italia, please innovate on a european scale and invent the european referendum for us, because, whatever the relative weight of governments, parliament and the commission in the future european architecture, what is missing, the missing link, are the peoples: the only way to involve them in this construction, even if there is a risk, is the referendum. i hope that the igc will express a stronger wish on this matter than the convention.
- mr president, president berlusconi has just stressed, and i quote, 'the historic importance of the constitutional phase that the european union is currently undergoing'. and yet the first meetings of the intergovernmental conference seem to miss the point. it is a clever discussion of complex but, in the end, secondary institutional issues, while not a word has yet been said about the main subject: the very principle of a constitution for a higher entity, which is very similar to a superstate, with its supranational decision-making procedures and the absolute primacy of european law. the heads of state and government thus avoid the central question: why a constitution? is this merely an operation to clarify the treaties? is it rather a near-final stage in the construction of the european superstate? does this superstate meet the needs of an enlarged europe? wouldn't variable geometry be a more appropriate solution? all these hidden questions, which are fundamental, will have to be asked one day, hopefully at least during the ratification referendums. but the later that day is, mr president, the more brutal the awakening.
- mr president, at the brussels european council, european leaders of course gave up the idea of introducing immigration quotas by nationality. this decision, which followed the declarations by mr fini in favour of the right of foreigners to vote in italy and those by mr prodi wishing to continue his commitment to integration by obtaining new civil and political rights, demonstrates the complicity and active participation of the current leaders of europe in the process of opening the frontiers to legal immigration and, thus, in the general colonisation, in the long run, of europe. the consequences of these irresponsible policies will inevitably lead to the loss of our national identities, to the ethnic communitarianisation of european societies and to the loss of national unity, which is the guarantor of civil peace. but we know that, fortunately, this colonization of europe will not take place without legitimate, healthy and salutary reactions on the part of its peoples.
in writing. - the hague convention entered into force on 1 january 2002. it concerns jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement and cooperation in matters of parental responsibility and child protection measures. it is therefore essential that the member states now take the necessary steps to ensure that the union accedes to the convention. the european union is working towards the establishment of a common judicial area based on the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions. we must ensure that any decision is taken in the best interests of the child. our duty is to protect our children who are the adult citizens of tomorrow. our society can only progress for the good of all if we are able to ensure the education of our children, if we are able to ensure their physical and mental balance. working for the rights of the child is working for the rights of the person; protecting them from violence, including institutional violence, is preparing them for a world of peace.
mr president, here again is a brok report, still inspired by the same principles, still driven by the same intention, namely the creation of a common foreign policy. mr brok still does not realise that the interests of the european states are divergent, that their policies are therefore incompatible and that this common policy, which was established more than 12 years ago, at the time of the maastricht treaty, will be one of the longest sea serpents that has animated the european federalist jar. it is not often that we see so many honourable people in history who have blackened so much paper and spent so much energy in pursuit of this strange and pathological goal of making their country disappear. but fortunately, these dreams are still far from reality. but let's focus on what they say, these dreams, and what is so clear here. they define a real world view and, i would even say, a real fear of the world. first, mr brok, considering that the council and the commission are incapable of defining real priorities, sets out to do so himself by choosing what he calls, in article 7, the immediate external borders, that is to say, the east and the south. at the same time, it welcomes the fact that the crisis operations conducted under the common foreign policy have been based on nato's programming and command structure - and i quote, it is article 30 - and it is of course in favour of greater cooperation with nato. what is the worldview that emerges here? if the european union is to apply its principle of 'union is strength', it must do so against the states on its periphery, in the east and especially in the south, and, according to mr brok, it must do so by means of an ever closer link with the united states in the framework of what he calls the euro-atlantic area. in short, europe would be built to strengthen the unity of the developed white world against what is not its own, what surrounds it and what threatens it. is that, mr brok, the common foreign and security policy? how can we then believe that europe's aim is to counterbalance american power when, clearly, its only aim is to strengthen the unity of the white world in the face of a threatening south? the european parliament has always been the most important institution in the world, and it is the only institution in the world which has been able to do so. the president of the commission has already said that he will not be present at the next partsession.
mr president, the brok report on the fundamental choices of the cfsp is very interesting indeed. it lacks only one thing: to mention that there are nations in europe and that these nations, at least for the largest of them, intend to continue to play their role on the world stage. this was shown yesterday by the visit to tehran by the british, german and french foreign ministers, who secured the normalisation of iran's nuclear activities. in short, the brok report over-think the cfsp in terms of the construction of a unified entity, whereas it should rather be thought of in terms of the variable geometry and synergy of national policies. the same reproach could be made, albeit to a lesser extent, to the current draft constitution under consideration by the igc. it creates a head of the union's foreign affairs, very revealingly called a 'minister', based on european diplomacy and endowed not with a double, as has been said, but with a triple title: that of high representative for the cfsp, that of vice-president of the commission for external relations and that of president of the council of ministers for 'foreign affairs'. this will lead to .... (the president withdraws the floor)
- mr president, i would first like to congratulate our colleague elmar brok on his work. the report contains many elements and develops a vision of europe's role in international relations which is also, for the most part, ours, both in terms of the affirmation of multilateralism and the prioritization of europe's foreign policy priorities and in terms of the positions taken on the middle east. if we had time, i could give many more examples. there is one point i would like to raise, however, and that is the question of parliamentary prerogatives in foreign policy. like you, i believe that the information of the european parliament must be improved. a recent agreement between the council, the commission and our assembly provides for this. it must be fully applied. i am, however, reserved about more advanced demands. history has often shown that an effective foreign policy is not accompanied by extensive parliamentary powers. a meeting is a place for debate and discussion and, where appropriate, decision-making. parliamentary time is by its very nature a long time, whereas foreign policy has to be conducted on a daily basis. in addition, parliament is also sometimes a place of conflict between groups which are necessarily heterogeneous. i believe that in the expression of its foreign policy, a community has an interest in showing itself as united as possible. it should be noted that in all democratic countries the role of national parliaments in foreign policy is governed by specific rules. finally, a final remark: the strengthening of parliamentary prerogatives would not be in the direction of a greater readability of europe's foreign policy. let us not develop some tangle of additional competences which would make our action a little more difficult to perceive by european citizens. i would like to conclude by stressing that it does not seem to me appropriate to claim equality of rights with the other institutions of the union in the cfsp. let us ask questions, make recommendations where appropriate, but let us not go so far as to claim the power to issue consistent opinions on foreign policy. as regards the cfsp, as in other areas, let us stick to the wise recommendations of the convention.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i think we should welcome the fact that the struggle of the abolitionists has, in a few decades, in a few generations, managed to establish itself as one of the priority demands of public opinion in favour of human rights. when abolitionists like martin luther king talked about abolishing the death penalty in 1961, it sounded like a utopia. then a generation like mine was made aware of the policy in this respect in my country when françois mitterrand and robert badinter abolished the death penalty in 1981. it should also be noted that countries which were thought never to abolish the death penalty anytime soon - including turkey and the applicant countries - have managed to do so with a little political will, especially since we met in this chamber in june 2001. so i think that in this matter, instead of talking about tactics, it is far better to talk about political convictions and the will to support those convictions. when our colleague, ari vatanen, takes part in the paris-dakar with a badge bearing the slogan 'no death penalty', he is raising awareness on an entire continent. in addition, as mrs trautmann said, it is our ability to control our instincts of revenge that is at stake. when we mobilize, a woman who had children out of wedlock in nigeria escapes the death penalty. i am convinced that by mobilizing again today, we will be able to get a man, mumia aboudjamal, who was imprisoned solely because he is black, because he was a journalist, because he spoke for the voiceless and because he criticized the abuses of the racist philadelphia police, off death row in the united states. it is with all these people in mind that i say today that we must think. in the case of capital punishment, it is not black and white, but the colour of the blood. that is why i think we should not extradite people to countries where we know they face the death penalty. i am particularly concerned about our fellow citizens who are currently in guantanamo, because we do not know what conditions they may end up in. ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of political will and not tactics.
i suggest. mr president, a few very brief remarks to clarify this point, which is so important to the italian presidency. i have heard in many speeches an appeal to the italian presidency to present the resolution to the united nations general assembly on behalf of the european union. i have not heard - but i hope that parliament will be able to say so in its deliberations - not a word about a situation which i duly referred to in my speech. there is no unanimity within the member states of the european union on the fact that the italian presidency should present a resolution on behalf of europe. so, two things: either this parliament asks the council presidency to table a document on behalf of the european union when not all the member states of the union agree, and this is the first alternative, or it must be made clear that italy, despite holding the presidency of the european union, can also table a resolution without the consent of some member states, without this being seen as a serious breach of the spirit of cohesion which should animate us within the european union. italy, on a national level, is in favour of doing so, but it is in favour of doing so - i repeat - at a time when it is very clear that, within the european union, not all the member states are in favour: i am not talking about a moratorium, because we are all in favour of a moratorium. i do not want to see the commission's proposals being rejected, but i do want to see a resolution tabled. as i hope i have now made it clearer, i say that the italian presidency is not only in favour, very much in favour of presenting a resolution on behalf of europe, but if europe is not united on this point, can we present a resolution - certainly not on behalf of europe - saying that europe is divided on this? i am prepared to answer that question when parliament gives its opinion.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i apologize for not having understood the reply. i am sorry, but i did not understand anything of what was said to us, and i still do not know whether the presidency will defend our demands or not.
in writing. - the demand for a universal moratorium is regularly reiterated here. when will it actually be realized? european goodwill is no longer enough. the abolition of the death penalty must be seen as an essential element of eu relations with third countries. countries around the world continue to practice this state crime. this barbarism continues in japan, china, the united states, saudi arabia and iran, where executions continue. worse, between 2001 and 2002, the number of executions increased. it has become impossible to keep quiet about this 'administrative murder', especially when it is carried out by the world's most powerful country, which claims to impose its order and values on the rest of the planet. it is impossible to accept that the only solution to crime and violence is crime and violence itself. the european union, like the newly created world association of parliamentarians for abolition, and the petition circulating around the world in favour of abolition, must exert all the pressure necessary to contribute to the adoption by the united nations of a moratorium leading rapidly to the abolition of the death penalty. men and women are forgotten on death row. mumia abu jamal is one of them. we must prevent the irreparable.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the situation in occupied palestine is dire. the number of poor people has tripled. the palestinian people are starving, when they are not dying under israeli bullets. in israel too, the social and economic crisis is worsening. it does not spare the most vulnerable populations. the situation in iraq is also a further factor in destabilising the region. the european council of 16 and 17 october reaffirmed the crucial importance of the mediterranean region. it is therefore necessary to support the democratic process, to help social and economic development and to strengthen political dialogue so that peace can finally be built in the region. as our colleague confirms in his report, there is no military solution. we must get out of this spiral of violence and return to the path of negotiation and respect for the law. we must impose on israel an end to this colonization and military occupation that breeds terror. it is also urgent to apply all possible pressure, including economic and commercial, not only to stop the construction of this apartheid wall, but also to destroy it. this wall is a human, ecological catastrophe, but it is also a disgrace to the values we defend. these actions are contrary to the commitments made in the roadmap. it is our responsibility to encourage all peace initiatives. in this connection we must pay particular attention to the so-called 'swiss agreement' peace plan. we think it is moderate, balanced, even though it is painful for many, who are asked to compromise again. although it is not enough on the refugee question, it is necessary to restore confidence and hope to both peoples. we have often said that only the existence of two democratic, sovereign and viable states, recognized in the 1967 borders, with jerusalem as their capital, will enable us to establish the justice and dignity that are essential to peace and to foresee a possible future. this agreement restores the legitimacy of international law. we must do everything we can to ensure that it is supported by the quartet, and in particular by the europeans. i would like to confide in you my fear, my fear of seeing a new hope disappointed, leaving room for an even stronger radicalism, which would only serve the interests of those who prefer force to law and war to peace. we have a heavy political responsibility: we must take it on before history and the world and we must break this silence, which would make us accomplices in this new crime against humanity. finally, i would like to salute the courage of the progressive israeli forces and all those who refuse to carry out missions which they consider illegal and which kill civilians. we must express our full solidarity with them. in conclusion, we must emphasise the civil missions where the international community plays a moderating and protective role: by their action on the ground, they successfully conduct citizen diplomacy where our international diplomacy is unable to intervene. we must ask the commission and the council to intervene in the un security council to send an intervention force to protect the palestinian people, their heritage and their environment.
- mr president, the oslo process is dead, the road map is deadlocked, the violence is freezing the status quo, a violence that has reached a new level that is particularly dangerous for the region and painful for the civilian population. we are far from the stones of the first intifada: the terror of suicide bombings against the israeli civilian population has succeeded them and, in response to this terror, the systematic use of smart weapons of targeted destruction, which also kill civilians, this time palestinians. a kind of balance of terror is established and the prospects for a political settlement tend to disappear from the field of concern. we're counting the dead. in these circumstances, the israeli-palestinian initiative in geneva has the merit of putting the question of peace back at the centre of the debate. its protagonists, in an attempt to break with the feeling of the inevitability of the violence, chose boldness, thus breaking with the pre-electoral paralysis of the united states and the structural atony of europe. instead of proposing small steps, the 'geneva pact' tackles the fundamental problems, carefully avoided by both the oslo agreement and the roadmap, but returns to the logic of taba. there are no taboos, the most contentious issues are addressed: jerusalem, the holy places, including the esplanade of the mosques, or temple mount, which would be placed under palestinian sovereignty, the recognition of israel, the renunciation of the right of return to israel of the 1948 refugees and their descendants, the viable palestinian state, the settlements and the territorial division. i would add that the parallel drawn by the rapporteur earlier between the berlin wall and the israeli wall does not seem relevant to me: the former divided a single state in two, and we have never recognised the artificial division. the second, even if its tracing can be disputed, can be considered as the outline of a border between two states, which we call the creation of our wishes instead of the current situation of occupation. the israeli and palestinian authors of the 'geneva pact' considered that tensions were now so high that, in order to encourage the two protagonists to get out of the logic of retaliation in which they had locked themselves up, small steps in security would be more difficult to define and would create even more misunderstandings than the presentation of a comprehensive peace plan. the political base behind this plan is thin indeed: its authors are, let us admit, rather unrepresentative of israeli and palestinian public opinion. it is therefore the method chosen, that of not circumventing the final objectives, which must attract our attention, it is the substance of the proposals that it is important to value. our debate tonight, mr president, can help to do that.
- mr president, mr menendez del valle's report is a bad report for three reasons: it is intellectually mediocre because of its unilateralism. in its unvarnished embrace of arafat's thesis, it leaves out the essential question of today: how can a democracy effectively combat kamikaze terrorism? it is also morally reprehensible in that it equates terrorists with victims of terrorism. and it seems to some that the idea that the jews are fighting back instead of letting themselves be killed like in the old days has something shocking and scandalous about it. finally, it is politically sterile, because it puts europe in a position of powerlessness, since it cannot be recognised as impartial and therefore capable of playing a mediating role. that is why, even before it is voted on, and unfortunately it will be, we can foresee the fate of this report: to join the graveyard already well populated with dead-born projects and texts.
- mr president, i would first of all like to welcome the rapporteur's praiseworthy efforts in such a delicate area. it is true that we need peace now - it is urgent - it is true that we need to show the perspective, it has been said, and that we need to re-humanize this debate and avoid turning the parties into monsters. that was said with a lot of humanity earlier. i would like to make a few brief remarks on this report, but first i would like to join the protests against the racist statements of the malaysian prime minister. i hope that this house will take note of this and take strong initiatives in this respect. (applause) i would also like to protest most strongly against the intervention of our colleague mr gahrton, who just now justified terrorist violence by saying that the occupation, if it is reprehensible - and it is questionable, and i am one of those who are very critical of israeli policy in this regard - does not and will never justify terrorism. terrorism is a crime against humanity, it is the absolute evil, it has no equal and it must be condemned. i would like to know what the connection is between young people being blown up in nightclubs or people being murdered in restaurants and the occupation. i find that comparison to be absolutely unworthy. personally, it makes me want to throw up. i would like to return to the three points which i have drawn from this report. firstly, as i have already said, terrorism cannot be put on the same level as legitimate criticism of israeli policy. they're two separate things, different in the moral hierarchy, in the hierarchy of evil. i would then like to mention the sanctions, and in particular the termination of the association agreement. the breaking of this agreement is a sanction against a people, because, since our assembly called for the lifting of the embargo against iraq on the grounds that a people is not punished for the actions of its leaders, i consider that the people of israel should not be sanctioned, even though we have just voted for an association agreement with lebanon, which, in terms of occupation, can say a lot, since it is a country that is occupied, "enclosed" by syria, even if we do not denounce it. finally, my third point concerns the international mandate, which, however, takes us back fifty years. but i would like to remind you that today we are passionately demanding what was passionately refused yesterday: the 1967 borders, the partition of palestine, or the clinton criteria. for this is what is being asked today after the table has been turned.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the committee on budgets, i would like to remind you that the lisbon objectives must remain the priority of the union's economic and social policies, especially on the eve of enlargement, and that it is therefore essential that the member states make the resources necessary for the achievement of these objectives available to the budget of the european union. while we find that the implementation of these budget lines is generally acceptable in terms of quantity - the implementation rates are perfect - sometimes the same is not true in terms of the quality of budget implementation, and in particular with regard to very small enterprises and the craft sector. it seems to us - and you know we have already said this to you on several occasions - that the commission is having difficulty in finding the levers for transferring funds to this type of enterprise, whether it be european investment bank funds for normative, environmental and new technology investments, or experimental funds, especially in the field of social law in the enterprise. it is therefore very important for us to fill this gap, because micro and small enterprises account for more than 90% of european businesses and they are both the job creators and the sources of innovation you want. all these companies are therefore actively involved in the achievement of the lisbon objectives and in the spirit of these objectives. these entrepreneurs, both men and women, deserve special attention from the commission in view of their importance for the stability of the socioeconomic fabric, the sustainability of employment and the risks they take. these initiatives are not only the work of individuals who are willing to take risks, but also the result of a general environment that offers conditions of equal opportunities. it is also up to us to stimulate the spirit of enterprise by creating the conditions for business creation. i hope that in the years to come we will be able to put the necessary resources into place to achieve these objectives, which are essential to achieving our grand and dynamic vision of the union's economic development.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking my colleague, mrs olga zrihen, for the excellent work she has done and, at the same time, to welcome the joint desire of the council and the commission to consider industrial policy once again as one of the major concerns of the european union. we must not forget that this is the very foundation of the european construction. it was the integration of the key sectors of the industrial apparatus of the time, which were coal and steel, that sealed our community destiny. but since then our industrial policy ambitions have been far too low, since it is only the commercial approach, that of competition and free trade, which has prevailed, with positive effects, i agree. but one of the results is that, in the context of the major industrial changes we are experiencing and which are inevitable, the lack of anticipation of the induced effects, particularly in relation to employment, has been total, and the waves of collective redundancies observed throughout the europe of the fifteen bear this out, as has just been pointed out. this will affect the countries entering the european union tomorrow if we do not react. the ambitions we have for growth, for the quantitative and qualitative improvement of employment, for social cohesion, to recall the lisbon objectives, require that a new industrial policy for the union be defined. this is a crucial issue for employment and for the social and territorial cohesion of the union. all the social partners are ready to participate in the definition of these objectives, and this in the context of a genuine action plan, as recommended in the report. i would like to make two points for the committee on employment and social affairs, firstly the question of industrial competitiveness. it is central and cannot be reduced to the dimension of cost reduction alone, as some seem to think. it is a complex concept which must fully incorporate the principles underlying the european social model, namely all the social factors mentioned by mrs zrihen earlier, and which i will not repeat. these factors are not objective burdens. these are productive factors in their own right, which must receive the same attention as the development of research and the application of new technologies. the second point concerns the need to promote an integrated industrial policy: major european projects, technological platforms to be promoted, etc., must go hand in hand with territorial approaches in terms of territorial balance and coherence with employment policies, whether in the framework of the open method of coordination or more restrictive procedures, as mr langen seems to want. in conclusion, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that the absence of industrial policy, and therefore of the positive effects that could be expected from it, is part of the growing loss of confidence of many of our fellow citizens in our institutions, including our own, which are supposed to represent their most legitimate interests, the first of which is employment.
- mr president, i would first like to thank commissioner liikanen and my fellow rapporteurs for their contribution. we must have the courage to say that deindustrialisation is a very serious risk. the ecsc, and later the european economic community, was founded on the idea of building a strong industry. but we have not had an industrial policy for more than ten years. how can we not blame a deeply biased position, which opposes the creation of the single market to the role of the state, horizontal action to sectoral action? each of our member states is managing its own restructuring as it sees fit. there is no concern for promoting the european productive system as a whole. the definition of industrial policy therefore becomes a matter of public interest. we have to make it a choice of society. without a revival of industry, a recovery in european growth is not possible. and it would be foolish to rely on services alone, because it is innovation and productivity, in and around industry, that create the added value needed for the rise of services. if national policies continue to diverge, europe will not be able to be a base camp for our companies in globalisation and the challenge of competitiveness will be lost. so i am for the entrepreneurial spirit, no doubt, but i think that business can only develop if we create the collective conditions for growth in europe. hence the interest of the action plan proposed to us, the need for sectoral european projects, a revision of the guidelines for competition policy and community aid, a trade policy more favourable to our development, and the capacity to create partnerships around local authorities. for small businesses in particular, it is not enough to create one. the european problem is that they do not grow. finally, it is good to measure the impacts before legislating, but it is also not necessary to over-regulate. the important thing now is to try to build european leaders on the basis of sustainable development. i will end with a word about the method. this recovery is not possible without participation and i therefore call for a strategic dialogue between the social partners, public authorities and community institutions. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, commissioner, the european union needs an industrial policy. enlargement makes it even more necessary and this policy cannot be reduced to competition policy alone. it cannot, on its own, meet the social challenges and the risk of sudden relocations to areas with low taxation and low wage costs, nor the ambition of an industry of excellence and innovation incorporating a high level of know-how and added value and providing many quality jobs. this ambition for excellence should be ours for the current member states as well as for the candidate countries. we must reject the fatalism that europe is destined to deindustrialize or to see industries concentrated in the countries of central and eastern europe alone. i believe that this vision of renunciation and the illusion of a european economy that would remain strong if it focused solely on services, but which would lose many technological advantages, cannot be contrasted with the entrepreneurial spirit alone, as philippe herzog said, but must be contrasted with real industrial strategies, which the commission's communication still barely gives a glimpse of. a genuine industrial policy must be based on major projects and sustained strategies in sectors where, for example, research and development efforts are combined with the creation of european champions. by encouraging groupings, for example, we could create champions capable of acting on a global scale and bringing a whole sector of job-creating smes into the fold. however, so far this has been done - where appropriate - primarily on the basis of intergovernmental initiatives and not community initiatives. we are thinking of airbus, the defence industries, arianespace, but there are many other areas - you have mentioned several - in which much more determined and vigorous action is needed. i believe that it is up to the commission to take initiatives in this respect, but it is also true that it must be recognised as having the right to do so. perhaps we should have a commissioner for industrial policy alongside the commissioner for competition. finally, this industrial policy, including from the point of view of competitiveness - as mrs zrihen said - must be part of a social vision. in this respect, some essential questions cannot be avoided. i will mention tax harmonization, the conditions for social harmonization, especially after enlargement, and the representation of workers in the major european groups, without which there will be no real social dialogue. in this connection, the revision of the directive on european works councils is still blocked. it was voted by parliament. i would like to mention the policy of lifelong learning. i would like to conclude by saying that in our companies and countries it is easier to provide training for people who already have a very high level of qualifications than for those who are less qualified. that is why i hope that this house will vote in favour of mrs zrihen's report by a large majority and that the commission will take this into account.
in writing. - small enterprises play a key role in terms of dynamism, innovation and employment in the european internal market as a whole. i therefore welcome the growing and increasingly visible recognition that our parliament is giving to these key players in the european economy, and in particular the committee on industry, which now has every opportunity to encourage this phenomenon. the report by my colleague werner langen is significant for the role of the committee on industry, which has made it possible to improve the commission's green paper on 'entrepreneurship in europe' in a concrete way, thanks, among other things, to the many amendments which i and my colleagues from the epp have defended. finally, the spirit which animates the founders of enterprises, large or small, finds a definition which should make it possible to put in place the measures adapted to the simplification of the administrative measures linked to the creation and operation of the enterprise, its transmission, the indispensable tax relief. however, much remains to be done, such as the development of a european business code of conduct, better representation of smes in community think tanks, arrangements to help them to internationalise, etc. and i am sure that our work will continue in this direction.
- mr president, it is good that the commission has finally agreed to the idea of splitting cod and hake, whereas it had originally intended to treat the two stocks in a single recovery plan, which would not have allowed the specific features of each of these two resources to be understood. the extremely drastic measure proposed by the commission for a long period of time - five to ten years - is based on a particularly alarmist diagnosis made by ices. however, two types of considerations cast a serious shadow on the scientific quality and objectivity of this diagnosis. the first is the failure to take account of the pragmatic observations made by professionals, who note a geographical shift of cod to the north of the north sea, a migration attributed to the significant and undeniable warming of the waters. this phenomenon is not analysed by scientists, who concentrate exclusively on sampling by fishermen. it is a general problem affecting the whole of the cfp and i am pleased that our committee on fisheries has asked stoa, on my initiative, to provide us with information on the impact of global warming on fish stocks. the council is concerned about the lack of credibility of scientific advice and has just decided to devote more substantial resources to improving it. this failure to take account of fishermen's observations also highlights the lack of appropriate articulation between the two sources of information, scientific and professional. this is another major flaw in the cfp, acknowledged even by the commission, which wants to see the future transnational regional consultative committees as the future place where these two categories of data are confronted. and when the quality of the data is not good enough, we know what happens: scientists use the precautionary principle, interpreting it in a maximalist way, and the commission over-sells, everyone protecting himself to the maximum. the second consideration that raises questions about the quality of ices assessments is the systematic exemption from any significant impact of the minnow fishery on cod stocks. it is strange, to say the least, that ices should be making a profit and loss on a type of fishing which clearly has a significant impact, given the size of the tonnages taken and the nature of the targets, on the state of cod stocks. our rapporteur is too timid in his approach to this point. well, that's a start. this is, moreover, practically the only point on which the report differs slightly from the commission's initial proposals, since it is essentially limited to endorsing them as such, without making a critical analysis of them and without proposing a corrective. we are a little surprised that a parliamentary report reflects so little of the real anxieties of the people who will be hit very hard by this plan, people whom, however, we represent. the fishermen concerned are particularly concerned about the implementation of the new instrument provided for in the cfp reform, the reduction of fishing effort. this essential point should have been widely debated and questioned in this house, because we are dealing here with the archetype of reconstruction plans, which are going to become widespread. the fact that it replaces a bad, expensive and inefficient instrument, the pop, does not mean that fishing effort is a good instrument. the commission intends to implement it before it has produced a convincing demonstration of its relevance and feasibility. it is extremely worrying that the calculation of the reduction in fishing effort will in practice lead to the laundering of over-quotas, illegal catches, blackfish, to the detriment of those who have respected their quotas. this procedure, mr president, is not in the least affected by the report. so, of course, we cannot support it.
in writing. - once again, the european parliament has just approved in its preliminary draft budget an item entitled '3710 - contributions to european political parties', with a memorandum. we voted against it. for several years now, our assembly has been eager to finance the so-called 'european' political parties with public money. but this was impossible, because there was no legal basis. the treaty of nice has provided one (article 191-4 tec), but the implementing regulation is still lacking. but it is not easy to write because it wants to introduce gross discrimination between 'integrationist' political parties and others, but also between strictly european political parties and those who, on a national basis, work at european level. it would thus contradict article 191-4 of the treaty, even as amended by nice, which gives a broad definition of the beneficiaries of funding, since it concerns parties 'at european level' (contrary to what the current wording of heading 3710 would have us believe). to avoid this new obstacle, the draft european constitution makes one further amendment: it is subtly aimed at political parties at european level (article i-45-4). but unfortunately for the federalists, this text is still far from being adopted.
in writing. - the restoration of the agricultural policy, as the significant effort envisaged for rural development, must be welcomed, unlike the inadmissible reduction of appropriations requested to the detriment of the tobacco sector, a sector which is extremely fragile in terms of employment. in international terms, the very serious situation in iraq and the aid being given to its dying people and its badly needed infrastructure calls for a reminder of a few simple principles and ideas. foreign policy can only be a matter for the sovereignty of the nations. as regards union aid for the reconstruction of iraq, the council of ministers, like the european commission, agrees that an appropriation of some eur 200 million until the end of 2004 would be the necessary and sufficient contribution to the reconstruction of the country, not taking into account food and emergency aid, given that the absorption capacity of the country is limited according to these institutions. moreover, the european union's contribution, in accordance with the needs of the iraqi people, must be defined in the context of a precise political agreement on the conditions for its implementation, with a recognised essential role for the united nations. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - this year again we do not see ourselves in the general guidelines of the community budget. the draft budget is all the more worrying as it will be the budget of a europe of 25 as from 1 may 2004. this translates into a significant increase in the budget, with over €112 billion in commitment appropriations. but the citizens of the states which, like france, contribute the most will not see the colour. on the contrary, they will be victims of the shortcomings of the cap and the redistribution of the budget for structural measures. the cpnt-edd believes that europe should put a stop to its bulimia rather than put the french budget under its control.
in writing. - we abstained on this report, as we did on the other two on fisheries. we are in favour of restoring fish stocks which are in danger of disappearing. but for years, european policy has been at the forefront of 'performance', 'profitability' and 'sustainable development'. as a result, the big arms companies have over-exploited the stocks, looted the hatcheries. this has been a big win for ship owners and processing industries, whose costs have been steadily falling. as fish stocks declined at the same rate, the authorities became alarmed and decided to reduce the fishing fleets. small fishermen have paid the price, and so have the taxpayers, who have subsidised aid... so that the big arms companies can continue to prosper, "sustainable development" being only that of their profits. the measures envisaged by the european institutions or national states will be divided between voluntary measures, which one report says have been foiled by the big shipowners with the complicity of the eu states, and measures whose main effect is to target the populations that live off fishing. we reject any measure which, under the pretext of preserving nature, destroys the livelihoods of small fishermen who live by their work.
in writing. - i voted against the proposal to extend the liberalisation of rail transport across europe. while the effects of directive 2001/12 on access rights to the trans-european freight rail network could not be assessed, as they are being transposed in the member states, the european commission and mr jarzembowski propose to accelerate the full liberalisation of rail transport. it is simplistic to claim that the loss of rail competitiveness is due to the lack of liberalisation. there was no need to liberalise rail passenger transport to develop competitive and safe lines. the cooperation between operators, as regards the thalys, is working. what europe lacks is an industrial policy, the development of cooperation between public service operators, investment budgets of the member states and the union in the trans-european networks. despite the improvements made, mr sterckx's report confirms what the council of ministers has accepted: the subordination of safety to profitability. i support the savary report on the creation of a european railway agency whose board would include representatives of the employees' organisations and take account of environmental, social and safety aspects in line with the ainardi proposals.
in recent years, the trafficking of human organs has increased considerably. human trafficking has been organized to harvest organs from living donors. patients from the european union buy organs from donors in third countries, taking advantage of their dismay at extreme poverty. in this context, the proposal for a framework decision is to be welcomed. organ donation from living people is a real source of abuse and often means exploiting poverty. the use of living donors should therefore only be a last resort when transplantation of organs from deceased persons is impossible. i therefore tabled an amendment to punish any organ harvesting from living donors who do not have close personal relationships, as defined by law. in the absence of such relationships, such donations could be made only under the conditions laid down by law and after authorisation by an appropriate independent body. organ donation from living donors must be highly supervised and closely monitored to protect people in vulnerable situations and to avoid the unacceptable exploitation of human beings for their organs.
in writing. - the european council of 16 and 17 october deleted from its conclusions the idea of an immigration policy based on quotas, as proposed by the italian presidency. we deeply regret this, because such a policy would have been the first step towards controlling immigration, since to implement quotas, one must first be able to count and control. among the opponents, jacques chirac, on behalf of france, declared that he was "a priori hostile to the very principle of quotas", at the risk of appearing reluctant to the very idea of limiting immigration. other opponents had better reasons: the commission's intention was to use the initiative to build an integrated european policy on quotas, removing the powers of the states to determine the number of immigrant workers they are likely to take in. it also wanted to offer additional quotas to third countries that agreed to take back their illegal immigrants. it would have been a strange bargain, rewarding those who would have wronged us, when it is their strict duty to reprove their offenders. it is not surprising that under these conditions some states have preferred to scuttle the quota policy.
in writing. - the european council in brussels was announced without much fanfare or hope. the report presented to us by the council presidency and the european commission confirmed the 'overall mediocrity' of a council which has not been up to the challenge of social and employment issues in particular. regarding the igc and the draft constitution, it is unfortunately confirmed that the debates (and therefore any last-minute compromises) concern (and will concern) only the weighting of votes in the council and the number of european commissioners. we are far from the real social and civic issues, which would require a new constitutional framework, different from the liberal framework that characterizes the project presented by valéry giscard d'estaing. as it stands, even modified in the margins, it is a project that does not suit me.
in writing. - european liberals, conservatives and social democrats are submitting to us an unacceptable joint resolution on the outcome of the brussels european council. we cannot share their political autism in the face of the weakness of president berlusconi's conclusions. we cannot support the igc's closure of the draft constitution, in defiance of the 450 million european citizens. we have to stop this democratic hold-up. a european referendum is urgently needed and, if the people so decide, another constituent process. we cannot deny that the economic and social situation of the working population is worsening: 10% of them, or 15 million people, are unemployed. a european law must prohibit redundancies on the basis of a scholarship. we do not accept that europe subcontracts the repression of illegal immigration to third countries. we want respect for human rights, first and foremost the right to asylum, freedom of movement and freedom of establishment. and finally, we condemn the attitude of the european union during the wto negotiations, which disregards the south, the peasants and the workers of the world. we call for a break with the anti-democratic, liberal and militarist logic of european construction by discussing this necessary and different europe at the european social forum in paris next november.
in writing. - i voted against the brok report, which seeks to transform the cfsp into a unified supranational policy, in defiance of national realities. moreover, as i said in my earlier speech, when the president cut off the microphone (for ten seconds of speaking time, whereas mr brok could have spoken as much as he wanted), the 'european foreign minister' who would implement this policy under the draft convention would combine the powers of the commission, the high representative and the presidency of the council of ministers. it would therefore have very different functions, leading to a formidable mixture of genres. in his introductory speech to the igc on 4 october 2003, the president of the european parliament called for 'avoiding the confusion of roles' between the commission and the council, apparently fearing encroachments by the new president of the european council. but the fact that the vice-president of the commission responsible for external relations chairs the council of foreign ministers does not seem to be a cause for objection! we ask that the 'minister' for foreign affairs not chair the relevant council but be clearly accountable to it.
in writing. - this report is intended to justify the establishment of a common foreign policy and a common military force in europe, with the pretence of ensuring european security. but the only recent wars involving one or more european countries, in iraq, afghanistan, côte d'ivoire, are all gang wars against countries that it is ridiculous to claim have threatened the security of europe. whether the european powers fight them together or separately, these wars are not intended to defend the people of the union but to ensure the interests of its propertied classes. moreover, the report can decline the word 'multilateralism' in all european languages, but the fact remains that these are the cries of small imperialist powers to which the main one, the united states, leaves no choice but to align themselves behind washington or to take refuge in impotent slums. the european union's near-breakdown over the iraq war is not accidental. it shows how the european union is a poorly designed assemblage of states with conflicting interests in many areas. we reject the 'fundamental choices' described in this report, which are not made in the interests of the people but against them.
in writing. - the proposed report on the common european security policy is supposed to advocate a transparent policy based on multilateralism and a comprehensive approach to security that is not purely military. but in practice, he says, the eu's policy "ultimately depends on its military capabilities and its willingness to use them". it also considers the strengthening of eu-nato relations 'an important element in the implementation of a european security concept'. finally, it 'welcomes the measures taken by the eu in its international fight against terrorism'. the proposed multilateralism therefore remains a facade; the old imperialist vision of a civilising mission for europe, shared with the usa, and including military options, is just being re-adapted. our vision is the opposite. war must be absolutely rejected as a means of resolving conflicts. priority must be given to social budgets, not military ones. and we refuse that in the name of a very selective fight against terrorism, which leaves out state terrorism, all freedoms should be attacked. it is therefore up to the peoples to impose another policy of collective security, based on the north-south solidarity of the exploited against war and misery. we voted against this report.
in writing. - the monotony of these annual reports is matched only by their boundless optimism. how can we dare, as this report asks us to do, to draw up an overall positive assessment of the cfsp in 2002, even though, on the conflict in iraq, europe has shown itself incapable of choosing between, on the one hand, uncompromising submission to the imperatives of american foreign policy as desired by the representatives of 'young europe' and, on the other hand, the policy of independence initiated by the representatives of 'old europe'? let me be perfectly clear: although i consider that it is sometimes applied in a questionable way, i do not condemn american foreign policy, at least its fundamentals. what i do regret, however, is the blindness of european federalists who, rather than learning the lessons of the crisis, are stuck in a dead end, hoping to seize the iraqi precedent as an 'opportunity and a challenge to finally make europe a major player in foreign policy'. such a lack of understanding of the powers of the political elite, such a denial of the geopolitical realities, is a harbinger of new and serious disillusionment.
in writing. - the menéndez del valle report on the paths to peace in the middle east rightly supports the 'road map' of april 2003, which should lead to the existence of two neighbouring states, israel and palestine, democratic, sovereign, viable, living in peace within secure and recognised borders. it even adds good proposals, such as the proclamation of jerusalem as a 'cultural and religious heritage of humanity', the dual capital of israel and the future palestinian state, with an international status that respects all religions (paragraph 53). i have, however, abstained on this report, to my great regret, because once again it tends to put everything on the same level, palestinian terrorist attacks and israeli military retaliation. he even congratulated the palestinian authority for adhering to the 'road map', while yasser arafat secretly supported terrorist organisations. finally, the report condemns the 'security wall' built by israel, which should be the necessary separation in the process of the emergence of the palestinian state. the route may be discussed, but this is a way of negotiating if necessary, not a question of principle.
in writing. - a future of 'peace and dignity' in the middle east requires that the two peoples, israeli and palestinian, can coexist, with equal rights, in particular the right to each have an independent state. this is the possibility that has been closed for decades by the state of israel, which has pursued a policy of oppression against the palestinian people. in recent years, this policy has taken the form of state terrorism, as abject as the individual terrorism it has engendered on the palestinian side, but with all the other means. the first is that the peace process must be based on the establishment of a democratic state, on the establishment of a democratic government, on the establishment of a democratic government, on the establishment of a democratic government, on the establishment of a democratic government, on the establishment of a democratic government, on the establishment of a democratic government, on the establishment of a democratic government, on the establishment of a democratic government, on the establishment of a democratic government, on the establishment of a democratic government, on the establishment of a democratic government, on the establishment of a democratic government, on the establishment of a democratic government, on the establishment of a democratic government, on the establishment of a democratic government, on the establishment of a democratic government, on the establishment of a democratic government, on the establishment of a democratic government, on the establishment of a democratic government, on the establishment of a democratic government, on the establishment of a democratic government, on the establishment of a democratic government, on the establishment of a democratic government. the united states, but also europe, have the means to put pressure on the leaders of israel, who are in vital need of the economic, political and military support of the great powers. if they wanted to, they could force israel to abandon its policy of oppression and plunder. we voted for the amendments to the geneva agreement, not specifically because of their content, but out of solidarity with those, israelis and palestinians together, who are fighting to end a situation that is catastrophic for both peoples. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in the case of the small and mediumsized enterprises, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the problems of small and mediumsized enterprises are not simply the result of the lack of resources but also of the lack of resources available. but the texts in question here take us into a virtual world, an ideological construction to the glory of the market. the green paper on entrepreneurship and this report, which comments on it, assume that 'entrepreneurs are the driving force of the social market economy'. the employees, who are obviously seen as the driving force, will appreciate... the green paper also states how much the commission regrets the "rigidities affecting the flexibility of work". the langen report calls for "initiatives to remove the mentality of the past, which continues to judge business activities and demonize profit". yet in 'real life', it is the pursuit of maximum profit by large companies that crushes small subcontractors. they impose the lowest prices and the highest rates on them, which have an impact on the wages and working conditions of precarious employees. the proposed texts are silent on this and repeat the old refrain of the necessary reduction of social charges. we therefore voted against this partial and one-sided report.
in writing. - although i do not always agree with the contents of the commission's green paper or with those of the parliament's report - i regret in particular that the issue of small and medium-sized enterprises is not addressed more - i welcome the fact that the union is resolutely addressing the issue of entrepreneurship, and i hope that the member states will follow this example. at a time when europe is on the verge of recession, everyone must understand that the recovery of our overmanaged economies is inevitably dependent on the promotion of free enterprise and private initiative. in this perspective, it is indeed necessary to change the mentality: that of citizens who, too often, have a negative image of the creation of enterprises; that of the public authorities especially who, for ideological reasons, are reluctant to create the conditions for a real "entrepreneurial revolution" by refusing to lighten the administrative burden on enterprises and to lower the tax pressure. it is urgent to give back to those who want the means, the taste and the freedom to create wealth.
in writing. - the commission's proposal was timely: on the eve of enlargement, citizens are concerned about the possible consequences of the europe of 25 on their lives, starting with their jobs. while european policies often sing the praises of smes and flexibility (while occasionally adopting measures that make the lives of smes impossible, such as software patents), i welcome an initiative that recognises that industries remain major economic and social actors. i also welcome the work of the rapporteur, who underlines the importance of an industrial policy that is social and environmental, by choosing to place her text in the context of the three pillars of sustainable development and in that of the conclusions of the european summits in lisbon and gothenburg. the right has tried to suppress these accents, but fortunately without success. the profound changes that are coming to the industrial fabric are opportunities to reduce the environmental impact of certain activities. unfortunately, there is still a paragraph in the text - which the greens voted against, because it considered fuel cells and hydrogen to be alternative energy sources - which calls for investment in nanotechnologies, without any legal framework and no idea of the health and environmental consequences (think of gmos!), and for investment in the security and defence industry. apart from this paragraph, the greens will support this report.
in writing. - in europe, tens of millions of workers are unemployed or underemployed. but, according to the rapporteur, everything would be almost for the best since it would stimulate "competitiveness"... the east european 'social dumping' she invokes is real: the collapse in the living standards of workers and, with it, the excess profits made by western companies established there and, in this case, the large retail sector. because large western capitalist groups have taken over the companies of central europe. others have "de-localized" their production, and sometimes then transfer it to even poorer countries, leaving desolation behind. would the textile industry disappear from western europe? the french clothing industry has lost 134 000 jobs since 1986. but his shareholders didn't lose anything. this "modernization of the productive apparatus" (65 per cent fewer employees!), say the company's managers, has not affected their turnover. the only industrial policy that would protect workers would be to prohibit redundancies, under the threat of requisitioning profitable firms. many firms, which lay off workers to operate elsewhere, are still making profits. their accumulated profits should be used to maintain wages, even if it means distributing the work among all.
in writing. - as a long-time supporter of an industrial europe and therefore of a european industrial policy, i have supported and accompanied the excellent work of olga zrihen. i would of course have preferred to go much further in the means of implementation (including in the constitutional framework) and in environmental matters, without forgetting the social and human dimensions. the balance of political and economic power in europe and in parliament has of course limited our results. however, i supported the step taken by mrs zrihen in the right direction.
in writing. - there is at least one positive aspect to this report: it suggests that there is still a european industrial policy. it is clear that many people, starting with the employees of european companies hit by the economic crisis, doubt europe's will to preserve our industrial fabric. it is true that european industry must focus on its strengths: high level of labour qualifications, strong technological and research capacity, mastery of 'clean' production processes, etc. but is that enough? so far, analyses are multiplying, but nothing concrete has emerged. more seriously, caught in the grip of a stability pact which makes no distinction between productive investment and unproductive expenditure in the calculation of the public debt, subject to the same rigorous control as the commission's abstract control of state aid (the alstom case) or of concentrations between companies, our companies are clearly unable to compete effectively with us industry, which in turn enjoys permanent support from its government. more than reports, european industries and entrepreneurs need a clear political will. but this report does not address this urgency.
in writing. - the resolution claims to support the democratic regime in bolivia, whereas in its own recitals it states that in that country, the poorest in south america, peasants, workers and the unemployed are largely excluded from political life and that, moreover, this so-called democratic regime has just massacred the poor who were demonstrating against the president of the republic, then in office. well, for us, the only democracy that existed for a few days in bolivia was direct democracy exercised by the people, who demonstrated that, despite the army, despite repression, they were able to oust a president of the republic that the majority did not want. bolivia is an example, not by its regime, but by the reaction of its people.
- the next item is the report (a5-0331/2003) by mrs figueiredo, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the commission communication on the uniform and effective application of the common fisheries policy (com (2003) 130 - 2003/2104 (ini)).
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, fishing is a sensitive subject, one which is prone to conflicts of all kinds: it is a field with strong traditions, but where hooligans and pirates of all stripes disturb public order. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur on the clarity and courage of her report. the secret and illegal activities, poaching and underground sales put the activities of all professional fishermen at risk. this activity will only be politically and socially sound and economically profitable if the controls are effective, fair, clear, transparent and identical in all the member states of the union. but today they are notoriously not good enough. their strengthening requires their rationalization and modernization. the control of satellite positioning must be developed, the flight books improved, and each state must also put in place adequate and sufficient human and material resources. the states are responsible for the controls, as you said, and they must remain so. but they must improve and strengthen these controls, with the european union coordinating them and the commission's specialised services responsible for fisheries assessing the impact of this improvement. if the impact of these controls remains insufficient, and only if that is the case, it may be necessary to consider a common inspection structure, based in particular on a community fisheries control agency.
commission. - mr president, i think that what we have just heard confirms both the quality of mrs figueiredo's work and the full agreement and convergence of views between the commission and parliament on this subject. i will make an exception to mr stevenson's last remarks, whose diagnosis of the state of the common fisheries policy i do not share, but he will surely understand that the commission's assessment does not entirely agree with his own. as for the shrimp issue raised by mr maat, we will of course take note of it and there is no doubt that mr fischler will discuss it with his colleagues and possibly, if necessary, with mr monti.
- thank you, chief. the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate on the points referred to in rule 50.
- the next item is the report (a5-0332/2003) by mrs mckenna, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the annual report from the commission to the council and the european parliament on the results of the multiannual guidance programmes for fishing fleets at the end of 2001 and on the report from the commission to the council and the european parliament on the intermediate results of the multiannual guidance programmes for fishing fleets at 30 june 2002 (com (2002) 446 - com (2002) 483 - 2002/2262 (ini)).
commission mr president, here too, the remarks we have just heard confirm my diagnosis of the past of these peoples and of the need, which was, i believe, perfectly recognized in the fisheries reform last year, to move to other systems. we have done so with, i believe, a clear will expressed by the commission and the member states, who, after much discussion, have finally agreed to follow this logic. as regards mrs mckenna's comment on the additional authorizations for the netherlands for 2003, i will reply - on one point - that the commission has indeed agreed to an increase in their pelagic segments, provided, however, that the commitments we have all made in this non-atlantic area are respected, and that is to avoid any overrun of the catch capacities we had set. only on this condition was the authorisation to which it refers accepted.
- thank you, chief. the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate on the points referred to in rule 50. the following shall be considered as a written declaration:
- the next item is the oral question (o-0065/2003 - b5-0280/2003) by mr jové peres, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, to the commission on the reform of the common organization of the market in tobacco, cotton and olive oil.
commission. - mr president, allow me to respond to the comments that have been made. i note that the choice of speakers has meant that only members of parliament have spoken with reservations about these reforms. i'll start with tobacco. it has already been discussed, i have some personal recollections of it, a little over a decade ago, at this very assembly. on the question of whether, in view of the tensions that could be observed here and there between agricultural policy and health policy, we should not have reviewed our options. so this debate is not a sudden one: it did not come to us all at once, we have been thinking about it for years, and for years now you have been talking about it in parliament. i think the commission would have been a truant indeed if it had not drawn the conclusions from these debates which we have had for years, and i think we draw the conclusions clearly. in that case, we propose a conversion, a restructuring of this crop to alternative crops. it's a choice that's been made. we know that this will be a considerable effort on the part of a number of tobacco producers today, both downstream and upstream, but we are putting on the table the proposals, including financial ones, which will enable this restructuring - the need for which we have, again, discussed for years - to take place. the situation is different for olive oil and cotton, for which the objective is not to restructure, convert or direct these productions, or these producers, to other productions. we want to maintain a number of cotton crops and many olive groves in the european union, effectively avoiding depopulation or desertification of the areas concerned, but also correcting the effects of the current aid systems either on the level of production, on the environment or on the finances of the european union. the commission has therefore put forward a somewhat average option which does not go as far as decoupling as that adopted in luxembourg this year for other productions. it is indeed to take account of the particular sensitivities of a number of these regions that we have not gone as far as we could have theoretically done, and i can testify to this by participating in the discussions of the college on the proposals of our friend fischler on this subject. third observation, which concerns the difference in treatment with sugar. mrs rodríguez ramos, rest assured, the reform of the sugar com is under way, since we have put three options on the table, this being the first phase of a discussion which must take place, because, to be honest, it is taking place on the substance for the first time, which, i remind you, is not the case for tobacco, cotton or olive oil. the commission will make formal proposals next year, after the three options have been discussed with the main parties concerned. finally, to mr jové peres, who was concerned about the consequences for the aid for olive trees depending on the year of planting, i would say that i understand that this is not a real problem, since the maximum guaranteed quantities have been exceeded in any case and this has no impact on the amount of the aid in question.
- thank you, chief.
- the agenda calls for debates on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law (rule 50).
- the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution (b5-0434/2003) on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the violations of human rights and the rule of law in burundi.
mr president, the unfortunate people of burundi continue to pay for the ethnic opposition, which is constantly being fanned by the leaders of armed gangs, official or unofficial, but which has been fomented and maintained, it should be recalled, for decades by the former colonial power of belgium and the french protectorate, by periodic killings, arbitrary arrests and torture. the resolution gives a lot of moralizing and paternalistic advice to burundi's leaders, faction leaders or neighbours. but more than advice would be needed, because the european powers still bear an overwhelming responsibility for what has happened and is still happening in burundi, just as they do, more generally, for the whole of africa, of which rwanda and burundi are in some way the sad symbols. it is an overwhelming responsibility for having bled this africa through the slave trade, through colonial plunder, and then through another form of plunder, which continues. while the european parliament gives moral advice, the big capitalist groups in britain, france, belgium and many others continue to take their prebendage even from the poorest countries, and the scant information that leaks out of many areas of africa where ethnic conflicts and mineral wealth are combined shows that it is very rare that, behind the local warlords, there are not capitalist groups trying to get their hands on the wealth that the soil contains. this wealth, instead of improving the lot of the local population, makes it miserable. i know that material aid, however substantial, would not be enough to overcome all the problems that perpetuate the past. but if europe wanted to, it could provide sufficient aid to enable the refugees to return and the people of burundi to have adequate housing and living conditions, to build infrastructure, hospitals, schools, and thus create jobs. the resolution does mention aid, particularly for the economic reconstruction of the country, but it mentions much more the financing of the african forces for restoration and peacekeeping or the sending of a mission of senior european military officers to meet their counterparts in the burundian regular army. in neighbouring rwanda a few years ago, the presence of senior french military officers not only failed to prevent the genocide, but encouraged it and perhaps even armed the perpetrators. so it is certainly not this resolution, even if it were followed by effect, that would make disappear the traces of blood that the presence of big european capital has left in burundi and more generally on the african continent.
in writing. - we abstained on this report, as we did on the other two on fisheries. we can only support the idea of restoring fish stocks, especially cod stocks, which are under threat, as stated in another report discussed during this part-session. but we cannot rely on the european institutions or the national states to do this. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the following areas: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources. this is something that should be emphasized, but the big arms have nothing to fear. on the contrary, as evidenced by the results of the multiannual european guidance programmes for fishing fleets, presented at this session. what would be the point of having a preserved nature if it had to be at the expense of the misery of men, at least the majority of them, of those who live by their work? (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
mr president, yesterday you were in berlin – as was i. you were on an official visit to the german parliament. you were accompanied by representatives of the ppe-de and the pse groups. have you forgotten, mr president, that there are other groups in this parliament who could also have accompanied you? why did you take only the two largest groups? i do not understand this and i would like you to give me an answer.
- (it) mr president, i will take the liberty of returning to the question of the eurobarometer survey for a moment. i think it is good that parliament hears what the commission has to say, and it should not hear it in the press room or from journalists. since this is our prerogative, it is only right that the commission - in the person of mr prodi or another commissioner - should come here and explain to us the reasons behind this poll which was - very rightly - reported in all the newspapers and certainly painted a negative, if not pessimistic, picture of our european union.
- mr president, i would like to address the recent crisis in sri lanka. mr cushnahan made a compelling point that while it is now possible, after 23 years of civil war, to bring peace to the country, the president declared a state of emergency after tamil tiger rebel groups presented their proposals for peace. you, mr president, mr poettering and other members of this house have met the prime minister who is with mr bush in washington as we speak. parliament should be recalled to colombo. there is no justification for proroguing parliament or declaring a state of emergency or sending troops into the streets. the european parliament should call for democracy, the rule of law, parliament and government to be restored in sri lanka. (applause) i would like to thank
- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since 12 august, the day of his abduction, no one has heard from dr arjan erkel and no one knows what happened to him. he was abducted in mukala, dagestan, and nothing was done to free him. i think that the european parliament and the european union should act not only to obtain information and demand his release, but also to protect the institutions that provide volunteer services in the territories where the health situation is absolutely outrageous.
- the agenda calls for statements by the council and the commission on the progress report on the intergovernmental conference.
the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to present to this house the state of progress of the process of constitutional reform of the european union. the italian presidency is convinced that only with the support of the european parliament will it be possible to solve the many problems we are facing and to reach a political agreement in december. for this reason, and in line with the traditional italian position, we have fought to extend the european parliament's participation in the work of the intergovernmental conference as far as possible. the convention on the future of europe has been an innovative way of starting the current process of reforming the treaties. the draft treaty that it drew up was not the result of a simple intergovernmental confrontation, but was shaped by constructive contributions and a structured, comprehensive, public and transparent debate on the future of europe, which for the first time in the history of the european integration process actively involved national parliaments and representatives of civil society. the political value of the success achieved must therefore not be dissipated or weakened by the work of the igc. the latter, on the contrary, has the task of improving and supplementing those parts of the treaty on which there is not yet full agreement. any other solution would be interpreted as an attempt to weaken the democratic and transparent method which was undertaken with the work of the european convention. if that were the case, it would be a step backwards which our fellow citizens would find it difficult to understand and justify. this approach is the basis for the main objective of the italian presidency: to reach a comprehensive political agreement on the constitutional text as early as december. this will make it possible to sign the future constitutional treaty - a constitution for europe, as defined by president giscard d'estaing - in the period between 1 may 2004, the date foreseen for the entry of the ten new member states, and the election of the european parliament. beyond that date, a prolongation of the constitutional negotiations would entail two serious problems of legitimacy and democratic transparency: on the one hand, there would be a gradual dispersion of the convention's constituent heritage and, on the other, european citizens would vote for the elections to the european parliament, ignoring the constitutional characteristics of the future europe. the need to find consensual solutions to the still controversial issues will not in any case encourage the italian presidency to negotiate a 'cheap' compromise which would involve significant steps backwards from the convention's proposals. our aim is to achieve a high-quality result that meets the expectations of european citizens and is capable of guaranteeing the efficient and democratic functioning of the union in the future. giving the european union a constitution is a challenge, not just for some countries or for the italian presidency, which has the honour of guiding the council during this phase, but a challenge for all. we owe it to our fellow citizens: if we do not meet this challenge, a united europe is a loser, the union is a loser as a factor of stability and prosperity on the world stage, and we are all losers. after the opening ceremony on 4 october, the igc's work went straight to the heart of the matter. in this context, institutional issues appear, as was to be expected, to be by far the most complex. the most important issues concern the composition of the commission, the procedures for electing and the powers of the president of the european council, the status of the minister for foreign affairs and the calculation of the qualified majority. these themes were further developed during the igc sessions held in the first half of october. the ministerial meeting on 27 october broadened the range of analyses to include issues not covered or only marginally covered at previous meetings. the following subjects were discussed in particular: the presidency of council configurations; the extension of qualified majority voting; and non-institutional matters, particularly as regards economic and financial provisions. the debate confirmed the existence of differentiated positions among the member states and the essentially balanced nature of the proposals contained in the draft constitutional treaty approved by the convention. it has become clear that the reopening of the discussion on certain specific aspects of the convention text leads to the repetition of opposing proposals and does not foreshadow new forms of consensus. the results of the work of this session allow the following conclusions to be drawn. firstly, there is a gradual convergence of views on the future presidency of the council formations, even if this subject will have to be re-examined in the context of a comprehensive proposal on all the institutional systems of the future enlarged union. the vast majority of states are opposed to the establishment of a council for legislative affairs. the presidency takes note of this opposition but will try to do everything possible to ensure that the council for legislative affairs is retained in the treaty, at least as an option, as a possible evolution of the system of councils. secondly, they confirm that the member states still have divergent positions on the issue of the scope of qualified majority voting. in the light of this situation, the presidency will consider ways of finding consensual solutions - especially in sensitive and key areas such as taxation, own resources, judicial cooperation in criminal matters and police cooperation - while remaining aware that the draft convention remains the main basis for building a balanced and ambitious agreement. thirdly, the provision of a manifestly excessive number of other non-institutional themes by the member states was clearly incompatible with the igc timetable, which was developed in thessaloniki and confirmed in brussels by the heads of state or government. the presidency will then proceed to examine this group of topics on the basis of a selective approach, identifying those areas where an alternative consensus to the draft convention appears to be emerging and those requiring technical and drafting clarifications. it will then be for the member states to decide whether they wish to insist on specific and minority points by bringing the matter, if necessary, to the attention of the heads of state or government. based on the draft convention and the work of the foreign ministers, the presidency will develop a comprehensive proposal focusing on the institutional package and defence, which will try to take into account the requirements of the member states, the acceding states and the candidate countries. this proposal will in any case start from the draft convention and aim to achieve compromises at least as ambitious and noble as those proposed by the convention. we are willing to consider possible adaptations, but equally resolutely opposed to upheavals and setbacks. the outcome of these negotiations is very likely to determine the future of the european constitution. therefore, and given the importance of the issue, the approach to these constitutional negotiations will have to be characterised by a good margin of flexibility on the part of all the actors called upon to lay the foundations of the union of the 21st century. we must abandon particularism and the logic of fair profit, according to which every concession must be equal to the cost incurred. this approach is - or rather would be - contrary to the very concept of european integration and, if systematically applied, would risk undermining the foundations of the union. although fairness is an essential condition for any constitutional pact, no one can put a brake on the current evolution of the integration process. those who wish to do so will have to take responsibility before history, before their european partners and, above all, before their fellow citizens. the approval of the new constitution will be a success for all or a failure for the union. there can be no essential opposition between the national interest and the european interest. (applause) i would like to thank
president and rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. - mr president, mr méndez de vigo called me last week to inform me of the ecofin proposals and mr hänsch came to our committee on monday. on both occasions, i was completely amazed by what they told us. i cannot believe that the council is adopting ecofin's proposals in the budgetary field. as a british citizen, i can understand why he is acting in this way on the question of own resources. whether he's right is another matter. on the other two questions, the financial perspective and the budgetary procedure, he is out of line. such an action would neutralize this parliament. there would be no need for a committee on budgets if this proposal were adopted by the igc. i'll tell you frankly, we'd be emasculated with a pair of rusty scissors. we have no need for this kind of 'domination' of the council. parliament has already lost a lot of weight in trying to reach agreement within the convention - and the council says it has done the same. we have nevertheless agreed that the financial perspective should be included in the treaty. now, if the interinstitutional agreement is broken, we go back to the treaty, which gives parliament much more power and authority. we sacrificed that element in order to make a deal, which is a more cooperative approach and would mean that we cooperate, that we work together. however, we are not dealing with cooperation, but with coercion on the part of the council. we cannot allow things to continue as they are and we must do everything possible to ensure that this does not happen. (applause) i would like to thank
- (pt) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we can only speak of progress in the work of the intergovernmental conference with irony or humour. did not rabelais say that laughter is the property of man? in fact, it would be more accurate to speak of regression rather than progress. however, if the intergovernmental conference fails to give the european union a constitution worthy of the name, it would certainly be a major disappointment for european citizens, who would feel that they have been let down. in fact, an overwhelming majority of europeans accepted the idea of the constitution because of its symbolic importance and its ability to mobilise people. for example, a recent survey in portugal shows that 69% of the portuguese population are in favour of the constitution and only 9% are against it. the position of other european countries is more or less the same. however, the constitution is within our reach: it can easily be adopted on 5 december and signed in rome, the eternal city. the member states have only to accept the draft that has emerged from the convention and abandon the harmful idea of rewriting it or tearing it apart. some states seem to want to harm europe, countries that are obsessed with being big or, on the contrary, small. some countries seem to demand only rights and make no mention of duties. others are more concerned with the creation of blocking minorities than with the creation of functional majorities. if this happens and if the national interest prevails, what will be the fate of the european spirit and the historical idealism associated with european integration? that would be the final straw and they'd be screwed for good. like many european citizens, i too would like a more federal, more socially oriented constitution with a genuine foreign and defence policy. this constitution must be given legitimacy, like any constitutional text, by the citizens through a referendum. however, i accept and support the current text, which represents a huge step forward, both in form and content, and which heralds a new era of european constitutionalism. that's why i say, "long live the constitution!"
- (nl) while i welcome the way in which the rapporteur has explained the objective of the regulation on asia and latin america, the question concerning the fight against poverty is: what is the added value in relation to national development cooperation? in the fight against poverty, member states may be making double efforts. the purpose of the regulation should therefore be clarified. the complementary aspect of commercial capacity development is clear. it is complementary to development cooperation and linked to the european trade policy. secondly, the bi-regional solidarity fund proposed in the report is not desirable. the objectives of a fund must be clearly defined. solidarity implies a sense of participation among people, which is defined in social contexts, close to citizens and on the basis of an internal consciousness: think of the charity taught by christ. however, in an intercontinental context, this charity is manifested through specific political actions and through co-financing organisations. a solidarity fund is not appropriate in this case. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, my compatriot, on her efforts in a good cause.
commission - (pt) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in its communication of november 2001 on a policy to combat illegal immigration, the commission had set out, in the chapter on the measures to be implemented at the external borders of the union, the need to establish a network of immigration liaison officers. the commission is of the opinion that this network must ensure the necessary exchange of information between the various immigration liaison officers and the coordination that the member states must establish with third countries so that we can work with them on european immigration policy. the action plans adopted by the council on illegal immigration and the management of our external borders, as well as the conclusions of the seville and thessaloniki european councils, also express the need to create such a network. the commission therefore welcomes the greek government's initiative to submit this proposal. we share the view, as emphasized by the rapporteur, mrs honeyball, that some of the rules of this initiative, particularly those relating to the system of exchanges of information between liaison officers, are sometimes extremely vague. taken as a whole, however, we believe that the text provides a good working basis for more structured and better coordinated cooperation with third countries in the field of immigration. this coordination will be even more important in the future in view of the new conditions which will soon be adopted for visa policy issued by third countries. once this regulation has been approved, immigration liaison officers sent to third countries will need to form effective networks for cooperation at local and regional level. this network should build on the positive precedent of the network established in the western balkans at the initiative of the united kingdom, which has produced encouraging results in regulating immigration from this region to the eu states.
the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism has drawn up an opinion. (fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, to quote from hamlet the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. many member states continue to tax migrant cars illegally, which hinders the mobility of labour within the eu. but even when a car is sold in another eu country, there are a lot of problems. ten years ago, the court of justice ruled in its famous nunes tadeu case that in no individual case can motor vehicle tax be levied at a rate higher than the proportion of the motor vehicle tax in the market price of a comparable second-hand car. in finland in particular - mr bolkenstein, you know this very well - this demand has fallen on deaf ears. i myself brought an old citroën station wagon to finland a few years ago and paid 17 000 euros - that is, between two eu member states - to bring my own car in. the finnish car tax law was then amended at the beginning of this year at the request of the court. i just called a finnish man who brought a mercedes bought in germany in 1995 registered in finland. he paid eur 7 000 for it in germany and just a month ago he paid eur 12 000 in taxes in finland. so for a car that costs €7,000, you pay an additional €12,000 in tax in finland. and this is an eight-year-old mercedes! this is how the single market works in europe. mr bolkenstein, we still have a lot of work to do on this issue, so that the citizens of the eu can see that the eu is really working for their benefit, for the benefit of the individual european. as a general rule, i support the commission's position that registration and use tax should be refunded when a car is bought in another country. at the moment, the tax on moving vehicles should not exceed the amount of administrative costs, but in finland, for example, the situation is quite different. in the longer term, the registration tax must also be said goodbye. only in this way can we guarantee the functioning of the internal market and that people can buy a car in the country they want and vote with their feet. it's the only way for consumers to force each country's government to change their embedded systems. instead, the user tax should be left to national discretion as it does not distort the functioning of the market. i would also say, in the light of mrs honeyball's excellent report, that i disagree with her on the question of security. but we would need tax breaks based on safety without delay. the deaths of 40,000 europeans are a matter of controversy. finally, i would point out that motor vehicles are taxed far too heavily in europe compared with other forms of transport. the tax haven we will not get from the eu, but the reasonable cost of driving should be allowed in europe.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i have written down all the suggestions, requests and wishes you have expressed here and i will pass them on to my colleague. basically, i can only say one thing: firstly, i share your view both as regards the enormous importance of the policies expressed in the so-called lisbon objectives and as regards the tasks which arise in the field of social policy for the future. i also agree with you that we must now, on the eve of enlargement, in particular deal with how these questions are posed in this context, and i also share your view on the urgency. i think that we must continue to work on both fronts, because we must not overlook the fact that the question of employment, the question of social security, has a great deal to do with our ability to restore a reasonable level of growth in europe. this is one of the basic conditions, and we will only achieve this growth if we meet the various factors necessary for the restructuring of our european economy. on the other hand, this does not mean that growth is the only issue, that is, only the economy, but of course it is also a question of social security. i have already told you in my introductory remarks what the commission is planning to do. i hope that these measures will actually improve the situation.
- this debate is over.
- the agenda calls for the report (a5-0333/2003) by mrs dybkjær, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, on the 2004 elections: how to ensure balanced representation between women and men [2003/2108 (ini) ].
the commission. madam president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i want to thank you for this discussion, which has really illustrated the important roles we all have to play. the commission must take its responsibility. i know that my colleague, mrs diamantopoulou, is currently studying the possibility of organising round tables in the member states and in the acceding member states to discuss the issue of gender equality. i think that these discussions must cover everything from nominations to how grants and forms of support can be designed so that we also promote gender equality. the political parties, the european parliament and the ngos have a very important role to play here. they must work hand in hand to improve the representation of women. it is clear that, in the run-up to the european parliament elections, it is an important task to ensure that we maintain, and preferably increase, the representation of women. it has also been made clear in all the speeches that the new member states must also be made aware of this, in order to ensure that women are well represented from the outset. we will have to live with this question for a long time to come, for better or for worse, since unfortunately we live in a time when it is easier to blow up an atom than a prejudice.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place at 11 a.m.
in writing. - it is very good to want to eliminate discrimination in electoral candidates, as proposed in the dybkjær report, but it is even better not to add any. the french law of 11 april 2003, which makes the voting system for the european elections regional, clearly disadvantages small-medium parties. in these circumstances, it can be argued that the law infringes the decision of the european council of ministers of 25 june 2002 that, when a european election taking place in a single national constituency is regionalised - as is the case in france - the reform must be carried out 'without overall affecting the proportionality of the electoral system'. the strangest thing is that the 2002 european decision was adopted by france, in accordance with article 190 (4) of the treaty, by a law passed only on 16 october 2003. in other words, the correct procedure would now be to adapt the french law of april to the european decision approved in october! unfortunately, it must also be noted that there is nothing to remove such a contradiction between national law and community law.
in writing. - the fact that we voted against this report cannot, of course, be interpreted as any manifestation of hostility towards the representation of women in politics. apart from the fact that the general philosophy of the report - positive discrimination - is contrary to the constitutional traditions of certain member states, and in particular to the republican universalism on which french law is based, the rejection of this text is based solely on respect for the distribution of competences between the union and the member states. in this case, in the absence of a uniform electoral procedure, the european union has no competence to intervene, as this report calls for, in the definition of the rules governing the organisation of the european elections. consequently, the european parliament cannot validly ask national political parties to introduce 'quota systems, such as the system of alternating the two sexes on the lists called the 'snap-closure' system and/or to take measures to encourage balanced participation', nor to ask the commission to disseminate information 'on the concept of equal democracy' ('), nor to call for 'the funding of awareness-raising campaigns' on the subject.
in writing. - we voted against the sanders-ten holte report on the so-called 'cooperation of the community with the countries of asia and latin america', with the exception of a few amendments on humanitarian aid, hoping that this will not be lost in the sands of the corruption of local political leaders. in our view, the amount of aid is paltry. it is enough to note, as we denounce, that when aid to latin america is supposed to be increased, aid to asia is reduced. this aid is a mere sprinkling of water, and it is not able to erase the tragic consequences of the pillage which has always been carried out by large european and north american companies or financial institutions in these regions and in others. by seizing raw materials at low prices, by cutting off areas of influence or by charging high prices for their services, the greed of the big european companies, combined with that of their local friends, is the very source of the impoverishment of the populations of these continents. in recent years, this has even led to the collapse of several national economies on these two continents. the european union's economic guidelines, far from eradicating poverty, are only increasing it.
in writing. - better coordination of national taxation of motor vehicles may seem necessary, but this should not be the occasion for the introduction of a european taxation. this taxation of private cars cannot be separated from a general tax system involving vat, income or corporation tax, excise duties, which is also an instrument of budget revenue and must as such be the responsibility of the sovereignty of the states. the environmental angle chosen by the european commission does not suit me either. taxing passenger cars at european level, as proposed, does not seem to me appropriate, firstly because many more polluting sectors are not affected because of strong lobbying and secondly because the structure of the car market is specific to each state. small and large countries, flat and mountainous countries, countries with a weak road infrastructure, countries with a strong tradition of public transport, etc. are all differences which are specific to each state and cannot be levelled out all at once by a harmonised taxation of passenger cars. (explanation of vote by qualified majority, pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - the honeyball report addresses the differences in the taxation of private cars between the countries of the european union, and the administrative and financial problems that arise when moving from one country to another. the commission is proposing to increase the value of the annual traffic tax rather than the registration tax, and above all to systematize the fight against pollution by harmonising taxation principles. we don't recognize ourselves in this method. of course, we are outraged by the absurd and socially unjust evolution of urban organisation and transport systems, and their effects on the environment. but it is particularly hypocritical to blame the penalisation of pollution on the salaried people who buy cars, even the most modest ones. the shift towards more efficient and less polluting transport systems is firstly the massive development of public transport, the drastic decrease in the share of road transport by lorry in favour of less polluting and less dangerous modes of transport, and the imposition of stricter anti-pollution standards for manufacturers. it is the profits and the direct taxes, which are progressive according to income, that finance the transformation of the transport system. we reject the proposed dissolution of responsibilities and have abstained on this report.
- mr president, i would like to return to the point made by our colleague about mr prodi's untimely statements a few days ago. i would like, through you, to ask president cox what he intends to do with the president of the commission, to remind him that it is not very elegant to position oneself as the leader of the italian left at a time when his own country is holding the presidency of the european union, and at a time when italy is engaged in a bloody ordeal in iraq. this position is in any case contrary to the spirit of the european institution's regulations; it is in any case contrary to the most elementary political morality. i would ask you, mr president, to convey this remark to mr cox.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 2003 is indeed coming to an end, as is the european year of the disabled. this is a very good time to take stock of the situation, but also to reflect on the future of community policy in this area. the achievements of this year are to be welcomed, madam commissioner; the european parliament has been a unique opportunity, as you wished, to promote the rights of disabled people and to take account of their legitimate demands to participate fully in social, economic and political life. the momentum generated by this year, with its thousands of actions at national, regional or local level, is considerable, and we are grateful to you for it. but today we must build on this momentum and use this experience as a springboard for new action, both at member state and community level. i believe that the communication you are presenting meets these challenges. i welcome this, but i think we should also say, as our colleague has said, that the political will to do so still needs to be strengthened in the face of reluctant member states. the reluctance of member states, for example, to transpose the employment equality directive is widely condemned and calls for us to do more. the european socialist party has a clear position on this matter, and my colleagues and i are convinced that the difficulties connected with disability must be tackled in a horizontal and integrated way, as is the case with equal opportunities for men and women. we have been keen to improve a number of legislative texts. you mentioned transportation. i would like to say that in the field of corporate social responsibility, the attitudes towards disability should be the criteria for assessing corporate social responsibility and the social quality of these same companies. the european parliament of the disabled, which met last week, also regretted that a specific european disability directive was not concluded in time for this year. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis of the treaty of rome, and it is based on the principle of subsidiarity. on this issue of disability, perhaps more than in other areas, i would like to conclude by sharing a conviction with you. we are well aware that these community legislative measures are indispensable, given the impact they must have, but we also know that it is at national, regional and local level that a whole series of policies must be articulated and developed, which must find their full place in civil society, business, the social partners and teachers. , it should be recalled that the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work. in conclusion, madam commissioner, mr president, let me say that when it comes to the rights and dignity of people with disabilities today, we cannot rely on the goodwill of the member states alone. we must imagine, as you do, i hope, more incentive processes in the communication process. we are counting on your multiannual report, madam commissioner, to put real pressure on those member states which are not going quite in the direction we are advocating.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if there is anything particularly remarkable about our rapporteur, peter liese, apart from his intelligence and his ability to work, it is his tenacity. for example, during the debate on the 6th framework programme, he fought against all research on embryonic stem cells. he lost. the council of ministers having unduly frozen the research appropriations a few weeks after parliament's vote, peter liese inherited a report on the same subject and, while pretending to seek compromises, he undertook, by his amendments, to prevent virtually all research in this field. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. so peter liese is returning to us in the house tonight with the same intentions. in the face of these attempts, the only reasonable and balanced course is to support the commission's compromise text, a text which is quite close to the compromise text voted by our parliament when it adopted the 6th framework programme. this requires that all amendments which distort it by changing its scope be voted against. my position, summed up in three points, is as follows: first, respect for those who do not want this type of research in their own countries; secondly, the refusal of a european veto over those who want and carry out this type of research. thirdly, a strong objective must be reaffirmed to guide research aimed at saving the lives of the terminally ill and alleviating unbearable pain. so here is the position and the will i am defending tonight on behalf of my group, the gue/ngl.
- commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am not in favour of this. i know! yes, i was. i remember the temporary committee on human genetics, yes to research, yes to the compromises of the sixth pcrd. and then, perhaps, we should talk about something that no one has talked about here yet, and yet i have been listening to the debates from the beginning. there are some here who are criticizing this research and rejecting it in the name of something that is not said and that i am going to say. it's almost a dirty word, it's the word "abortion". there are some here who are fighting, through this refusal of research, against abortion. so we can talk about suffering, parkinson's disease, and so on. i would also like to speak about this issue, the issue of women's rights. there are two aspects to this question. firstly, stem cell research is not an ethical struggle over whether or not abortion is legal in european countries. secondly, however, men and women are not equal in relation to embryonic stem cells. i'd be happy if someone other than me said it in this room. there is a whole series of amendments, commissioner, which deal with the refusal of sources of profit around this, and which you refer to under article 152 as not being within the competence of the european union and our institutions. i would remind you that article 3 of the charter of fundamental rights states that the human body cannot be used as a source of profit, and i would also remind you that this charter will soon be enshrined in the constitution, as we all hope. i would also like to draw attention to the fact that, although embryonic stem cells still affect women first and foremost, and what women carry in them, there is no question of them becoming research instruments, economically speaking. no sources of profit. even if we have to think that it is not up to us to say it, i still think that we have to face this fundamental difficulty in history.
- mr president, in the present social organization, where profit guides economic trends, i do not trust the use made by industrial groups of scientific discoveries. but it is not freedom of research that is the problem, because research is what makes humanity progress. we do not accept that the most reactionary pressure groups censor research in the name of religious prohibitions or for any other obscurantist reason. we will therefore vote against any amendment which seeks to prohibit research on stem cells from surplus embryos in the name of a pseudo-moral. the fact that the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr glinne, which is a very important one, is a very important one. and the objections sometimes come from political currents that justify the most heinous wars, where it is not stem cells that are destroyed, but human beings. i would like to conclude by saying that in france scientists have just demonstrated against the curbing of research funding. i join their protest. if there is not enough money for research, let it be spent on military expenditure, which is constantly increasing.
commission. - mr president, the commission has of course attached great importance and interest to the work and has examined the amendments very closely. it welcomed the fact that the vote in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy was a clear majority in favour of community funding for research projects involving the extraction of human embryonic stem cells from surplus embryos and, therefore, in favour of the creation of new lines. this is an important point to support research that is likely to have beneficial effects on the treatment of major health problems. however, the commission has some difficulties with the amendments to remove the date of 27 june 2002 for the creation of surplus embryos as proposed by the commission on 9 july. i agree that this date has no scientific basis: it is simply linked to the adoption of the framework programme. the commission, like parliament, had followed the majority in voting on the framework programme and that is why this date was taken as the reference date. this proposal must also be seen - as mr bowe said - as a compromise, a signal to those who want to avoid - which i understand, because it is perfectly legitimate to have different opinions on the matter - that in vitro fertilisation is diverted from its objectives and used to create embryos for research. we have always been very clear that we do not want to see the production of embryos specifically for research. so the date is intended to show that we are not pushing for the creation of embryos for research purposes, but that the surplus embryos that exist can obviously be used for research since, as some members have said, they no longer meet a parenting project. on this basis, the commission is able to accept a majority of the amendments, which are excellent, thanks to the work of the rapporteur and the committee as a whole. amendments nos 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17 and 18 are concerned, in whole or in part, with some rewording. these amendments clarify the content of the proposal and therefore, as mrs plooij-van gorsel has also pointed out, correspond to what parliament voted on when the framework programme was adopted. i would remind you that parliament's proposal was also based on the opinion of the european ethics group which had defined what could be done. i would add to mrs breyer, in line with what has just been said, that it is quite normal that there have not been many expressions of interest - nine so far - because the new areas of research generally have few really competent teams. it is better that this should be the case, because it requires really competent teams to work in such an area and to provide maximum guarantees on the ethical handling of cases. the commission, however, cannot accept amendments nos 2, 3, 5, 10, 11, 16 and 19, in particular because they seek to remove the date for the reasons i have just explained. we wanted to compromise and we want to keep that date. this is the case, amongst others, with amendments nos 5 and 10, which remove the reference to that date. as regards amendment no 11, it deletes a condition from the commission proposal. i take this opportunity to emphasize the conditions, because there has been a lot of talk about the different methods, particularly those using adult cells or umbilical cord cells. in this connection, it is very clear in the paragraph deleted by amendment no 11 that we must ensure that all other alternative methods have been examined and have proved to be insufficient for the purposes of the research in question. it is also a signal to those who are not in favour of these research developments. this type of research will only be developed if it is a solution whose need is scientifically demonstrated. in other words, many scientists, including those who are not ethically favourable to research on surplus embryonic stem cells - as some of the professors who took part in our meetings - must recognise that this method is interesting, that it complements research on adult stem cells and that it should not be excluded. i would like to conclude with the amendments tabled by mr nisticò here in the plenary. i acknowledge mr nisticò's enormous efforts to always find a compromise. it had made a similar effort when the parliament voted in june 2002, since it was its amendment which had been the subject of the consensus on which the commission's proposal was based. but, mr nisticò, the amendments you have tabled here introduce a bias - and i am answering mrs mcnally's question. when you link the cells, the surplus embryos with the cells and the lineages that already existed on june 27, 2002, you completely restrict the research. i would like to point out, however, to mr liese, who is of course well acquainted with the matter but who sometimes confuses the various concepts, lines and dates, that on 27 june 2002 there were no european stem cell lines. we are formal. the existing european stem cell lines appeared later in sweden. i answer mrs thors: you can ask the karolinska researchers, it was from september 2003 that three lines appeared. so if you introduce this amendment, you create the following problem: the stem cell lines that existed before 27 june 2002 are only american, israeli, asian. that means you're tying them to business mechanisms. because the american strains are available, but under commercial contract. you do not allow europe to have any chance of developing this type of research, which is interesting; you are not allowing europe to move from embryonic lines to existing stem cell lines. today there are more. there are two in britain, seven in sweden (three in karolinska and four in gothenburg), but they appeared after 27 june 2002. you are therefore handicapping europe for two reasons: in terms of scientific value and also because the lines before 27 june 2002 are being marketed. it is therefore totally contrary to the spirit which has been developed by many, and which is also the spirit of the commission: in no way can profit be made from surplus embryos. that's very clear. we do not want the stem cell lines to be commercialized, they must be made available to the european scientific community. at present, they are not available to the european scientific community, except against payment. in germany, they're imported too. we're doing research on imported stem cells, from commercial mechanisms. i totally respect all ethical differences, but your reasoning doesn't hold up. you're consistent with yourself in saying you don't want research using surplus embryos. it's consistent. but you cannot tie it to a date, the date is a symbolic gesture of compromise not to push for the creation of surplus embryos, stem cell lines. it is quite contradictory and it is quite contrary to quality research at european level, not to mention that it does not solve the ethical problem either. i admit that you are trying to find solutions, but this one is not consistent. i would like to thank parliament for its work on this difficult and passionate subject which affects each of us and which affects life. i understand that there are differences of opinion. this is the greatness of europe. but there's also a value: research. the commission's proposal was intended to try to respond, as has been said, to a concern expressed by parliament and the council of ministers at the meeting of 20 september 2002. the commission has done its work to frame this research with strong, consistent ethical rules, so that fundamental principles can be defended in this field too. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. - there is no scientific evaluation to justify research on embryonic stem cells and researchers note the failure of using these cells for therapeutic purposes. however, alternative methods, such as adult stem cells, are showing promising results. the argument that this basic research on embryonic cells will allow adult stem cells to be included requires two remarks. first, the existing cell lines are sufficient. this is the liese proposal. secondly, it is to forget that the purpose of adult stem cells is to repair tissue on the patient himself, whereas the purpose of embryonic stem cells is to continue the development of the human being started from conception. the commission's proposal is ambiguous and inappropriate because scientists do not promise results for 10 or 15 years and this research does not meet the urgent demand of the patients who are waiting in pain for treatment. we must give priority to funding adult stem cell research, the only alternative method which poses no ethical problems and is a technique approved by all members of parliament. i will not support the commission's proposal as amended by the itre committee and will vote for the gargani amendment, which i co-signed.
- the next item is the report (a5-0389/2003) by mr linkohr, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication 'investing in research: an action plan for europe' (com (2003) 226 - c5-0381/2003 - 2003/2148 (ini)).
commission. - mr president, i would simply like to thank the members again for their speeches and to respond to some of the aspects of them. first of all, as mr linkohr has rightly said, i think it is very important that we pay attention to the next financial perspective. they will determine the room for manoeuvre after 2006 and, among other things, the place of research and innovation in the budget of the european union. as commissioner for research and innovation, i have made proposals and the commission will present a paper, but it is clear that this will be a major policy debate over the next year and into 2006. the debate will allow the development of financial perspectives that increase the relative share of research and innovation in the eu budgets, in order to respond to the various needs that have been expressed and to support the 3% action plan. it is also important, of course, that when i think of new actions, i think, among other things, of basic research, which is not currently supported at european level. i am thinking of the space policy on which mrs mcnally and i have just written a white paper, which obviously has to do with this desire to develop new technologies, to develop technology transfer, to maintain this capacity for scientific curiosity which is determined by the desire to go further because there are potentials. but, mrs matikainen, you have rightly emphasized the role of small and mediumsized enterprises. and it is true that the dynamism of transposing research into the economic cycle, which is also a reality, is and must be done more with small and mediumsized enterprises. you come from a country that is setting an example, since in finland 55% of small and medium-sized enterprises have regular contacts with universities and research centres. these areas need to be extended to the european level and there are, of course, methodologies that need to be specific to small and medium-sized enterprises. the commission intends to adopt the block exemption for small and medium-sized enterprises in respect of state aid for research and development at the beginning of 2004. as a result, from 1 january 2004 onwards, small and medium-sized enterprises will no longer need to inform the commission and therefore more specific and specific actions can be taken and supported by the different states and regions towards these same small and medium-sized enterprises. as regards fundamental research, it is essential that there should be a clearer proposal on this subject in the 7th framework programme, which also takes account of the ongoing debate in the scientific community on the european research council. you have spoken of this european research council which would aim to bring the best scientific teams in fundamental research into competition at european level and, therefore, to provide support for these dimensions which is, as has been said, comparable to what is done at the national science foundation, where the best teams have programmes at american level. we should have programmes like this at european level. and then, of course, there is the question which mrs plooij has rightly highlighted, namely the question of financing. among these financing, there is of course public financing, there is private financing which needs to be increased, and there is of course the use of the european investment bank, which can be much more oriented towards research and innovation, which is increasingly the case. and in the growth initiative, as adopted on 11 november 2003, we find the concept of quick stars, i.e. projects that can be implemented fairly quickly. and for the first time, €14 billion is earmarked for projects relating to european structures and essential european infrastructure. we are of course thinking of all network problems in general, all space policy problems concerning in particular gmes and interactive telecommunications satellites; we are obviously thinking of the tri-electron lasers, which are essential for the emergence of a new generation of research in molecular biology, materials and nanotechnology, because nanotechnology is going to be essential, not to mention the transition from microelectronics to nanoelectronics. we have planned a technology platform and in this regard the finnish centre has partnered with the realization of this transition from micro to nanoelectronics because this is where the big challenge will lie. as regards this challenge, it is obvious that we will be looking at the problem of technological platforms. depending on the sector, we will focus on bringing together the major players to define research projects and research needs. and, in answer to a question from mrs mcnally, it is through programmes like these with indications such as 'what are you going to do?' that we will achieve this. the member states, on the other hand, in the '3% action plan' and the growth initiative, are asked to say: 'this is what we are going to do. this is our programme to achieve the 2010 target.' the commission's role will therefore be to provide incentives, because if we cannot take a stand for the member states, we can provide incentives, show best practice and support the process of achieving 3% in 2010. this is a necessary process if europe is to maintain its place in the world, but it requires funding and the priority given to research policy. you have understood that very well and i thank you very much for your support of this policy. and since this will probably be one of the last times we have to discuss these reports, i would like to thank all the members of the commission, as well as parliament for the support for research and innovation and my friend erkki liikanen, who will succeed me. we are of course on the same page and in favour of an ambitious industrial research and innovation policy for europe.
- thank you, chief. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the following shall be considered as a written declaration:
- a5-0374/2003 by mrs imelda mary read, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 2236/95 laying down general rules for the granting of community financial assistance in the field of trans-european networks [com (2003) 220 - c5-0199/2003 - 2003/0086cod] - a5-0375/2003 by mrs imelda mary read, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the interoperability of pan-european electronic communications services for government, public administrations and citizens (bcre) [com (2003) 4036 final] - 2003/05/06 (cod) ] - a5-095/2003 by mrs imelda mary read, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the interoperability of pan-european electronic communications services for government, public administrations and citizens (bcre) [com (2003) 4036 final] - 2003/06 - c5-09590 (com (2003) 6 final) ], on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the regulation of the european parliament and of the external energy market in electricity regulation of the european union (com (2003) 4095/2003)
- madam president, i shall stick to one point: is there a need for a european telecommunications regulation? nick clegg says, "it must only be temporary". i say: "it must be permanent and more solid than the current regulation". i would have liked nick to have taken better account of the analyses of leading oxford and cambridge economists, who point out that, while competition policy acts ex post, regulation is necessary ex ante to meet economic, social and ecological objectives. the rapporteur stresses that the incumbent operators must give way to competition. yes, but it will not automatically be efficient, or even effective, in an oligopoly situation. the european telecoms sector has just gone through a beresina in terms of investment and jobs and has lost its lead with the gsm standard. a regulation for the umts would have allowed for the sharing of infrastructure use, instead of investors duplicating it by taking on heavy debt. secondly, the contradiction between the 'price' and the 'quality' criteria forced the uk regulator to impose higher quality obligations on british telecom. the commission's report on the social and territorial cohesion objective is particularly weak. is there really a universal access? we don't know. should it be extended with effective territorial coverage for mobile phones, with access to high-speed internet for all? there's no position there either. the generalization of the tendering procedure can encourage all the pressures to eliminate the universal service. the question of how to calculate the costs of special financing is answered in very different ways depending on the choice of the relevant territory. all this is even more important in the context of enlargement. who would dare to say that liberalisation will be enough to make private capital invest en masse? i therefore strongly advocate stronger european regulation. the idea of outright independence of national regulatory authorities and self-regulation is not self-evident. these authorities must be part of a legislative and regulatory framework of public interest.
- madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, fans of communication, since at this hour, as was said earlier, we are a little bit apart, there is a whole series of dangers which my colleague mr herzog has just highlighted and which i will not repeat. so i will try to be positive and say that the three reports are, nevertheless, in line with a political logic aimed at avoiding the digital divide and, in this respect, i not only thank the two rapporteurs for their work, but the greens will support these three reports. i shall come back to mrs read's proposals in a little more detail, because on very technical subjects, but financially interesting - i am an auvergnean, by the way - for the european authorities, these proposals make it possible not to leave the information society in the hands of one or two monopolies. there's more to life than bill gates in the computer world, and that's a good thing. i shall therefore try to be more specific in thanking each other for having informed us in advance of what they were doing so that we could follow the amendments that were being prepared a little more closely. the eten programme is a key implementing tool for the general rules for the granting of community financial assistance in the field of trans-european networks. this is planned to run until 2005. the aim is to raise the maximum level of project support in the telecoms sectors from 10 to 30%, and this proposal is not insignificant as it will undoubtedly help to reinforce the lisbon objectives and thus develop europe in the area of services of general interest. and that is what we are interested in, whether we call it universal services or services of general interest, it is, in any case, that this service, in the end, is addressed to all citizens and is a tool that is strengthened for the good of all. this concept of services of general interest is perhaps even more true with the idabc programme for the period 2005-2009. we greens, who are, as you know, very pro-free software, find it to be a positive development, since it is part of the logic of providing interoperable pan-european services from e-government to administrations. we will therefore support these projects. i would like to say, finally - because it is interesting news - that the city of munich, for example, has started to use the unux, the free software, based on the guide that was made from ida, and i hope that many other local authorities will have the same issues.
- (de) mr president, mr prodi, you are right in your proposals to make the enlargement question the first priority for 2004. in reality, enlargement has been formally accepted, but in the minds of many people - perhaps in this house, but especially in the population in general - it is not quite done yet. the commission is therefore right to make sure, as a matter of priority in the coming months, that in the event of corruption, when administrative issues need to be resolved and when nuclear safety is at stake, all the countries which are due to join the european union on 1 may 2004 are genuinely preparing for it. our negotiations with bulgaria and romania must also continue. we must state unequivocally that 2010 is the target date - but no country can take that date for granted unless it persists in the reforms it has initiated. mr prodi, you will be responsible for preparing the council decision on turkey next year. however, i would ask you to consider this: unless a positive decision is taken in favour of opening accession negotiations, you will have to come up with ideas on how to intensify our cooperation with turkey up to - and indeed during - the opening of negotiations. the events of the last few days in istanbul demonstrate the importance of cooperation with turkey, especially in security matters. this close and coordinated cooperation with turkey is essential, regardless of the accession problem. enlargement also raises the question of effective and secure external borders. i agree that this is an important aspect of our development, also in the context of enlarged europe. however, cooperation with our neighbours is also essential, for example, to prevent cross-border crime and to combat the atrocities of human trafficking. developments in the balkans have shown that it is entirely possible for the european union to design this cooperation in a productive way. however, it is equally crucial that when we talk about immigration, we also talk about integration. i hope that the commission will also point out to certain states that it is not just a question of limiting immigration. our task is also to integrate more fully the immigrant populations into our societies. as regards growth policies, which are also covered extensively in your programme, we support the commission's proposals on investment in networks and knowledge. we need a quick decision here. this assembly must take decisions quickly in order to implement the growth initiative. highlighting investment is good, but networks and knowledge need investment too. the experience of the past few months has shown that liberalisation without incentives to invest in networks such as energy or transport could lead to a temporary or even long-term collapse of these networks. if we want to modernise europe, we - the european union and, of course, all the member states separately - must increase investment not only in knowledge but also in our infrastructures. as regards the questions of liberalization and harmonization, i would also ask you, mr prodi, to consider this: we are trying to establish a european social model. it seems to me that your document does not express this in adequate terms. i sometimes get the impression that we are more liberal than the neoliberals in their theoretical works and more american than the americans in some of our advances towards harmonization and liberalization. we must consider the social consequences. we must make the fight against social exclusion and poverty a priority. in some countries, poverty is again on the rise. this is, without a doubt, a disaster. the reasons may also be that austerity programmes do not take adequate account of the impact of spending cuts and liberalisation measures on several social groups. this is not an argument against liberalisation, but simply a question of considering the social impacts of unemployment, etc. i would therefore ask you to take this into account in your action. in this context - and i think the document does not address this issue adequately either - i would like to stress the importance of public services, which we will be discussing in this house next week. many public services are a particular feature of the european social model which we want to defend, openly and unequivocally, in the rest of the world as well. so i ask you to consider this aspect in your work. i would like to make two further comments. the first concerns foreign policy. this parliament has very often debated the position of this house and the european union on the middle east. we must have the strength and the determination to pursue this objective that we have set ourselves and to support without hesitation all peace initiatives, the most recent being the geneva agreement. however, none of the developments in the middle east and none of the criticisms we make of israel justify, far from it, anti-semitic statements or actions. europe must openly state that criticism of the current position of the israeli government cannot be a reason for any anti-semitic words or actions. we should all have learned the lessons of the catastrophe of the second world war in particular and together we should resolutely oppose all forms of discrimination and anti-semitism, despite our clear position on the middle east. mr prodi, you heard our positions today. we want a strong president of the commission and a strong commission. please do not add to the mill of the anti-europeans by sowing uncertainty or indeed doubt about whether you will remain the president of a strong commission until the elections next year. this is essential to ensure that when voters go to the polls in june, they know why they are voting, that is, for a strong and united europe with a strong commission and a strong president of the commission.
- (es) mr president, i am familiar with the long lists of measures in the commission's programme for 2004. however, it seems to me that a measure shines by its absence. we must find a way to restore the harmonious balance between parliament and the commission. this strategic alliance is the basis for many of the advances in the european union project. we now see ourselves as citizens of a union, not simply consumers of a vast market. the concept of consumer implies the existence of a market. the concept of citizenship, however, demands and requires the existence of a parliament as a sine qua non. this parliament must be a functional entity. it must be able to give this integration project legitimacy. it must also be able to audit the appointed commissioners, investigate the commission and exercise democratic control over it. this parliament must be able to debate, refute, ratify and rectify. this parliament must be firmly anchored in the real world and turn its back on the mirages of glory. yet, he must not become arrogant. parliament will certainly be asked to cooperate with the commission, since the latter is a key institution in the project of european integration. however, parliament must also continue to play a vital and guiding role in the future. it is the political driver that drives the project as a whole and disseminates the progress made. this essential cooperation between parliament and the commission must not prevent the commission from continuing its activities. the commission must always be governed by transparency, clarity, honesty and efficiency. parliament must also demonstrate its ability to discern the essential elements of the instrument. he must not succumb to the temptation to adopt a constantly hostile attitude towards the commission. it must exercise its rights and fulfil its obligations, in other words its responsibilities towards citizens, without disproportion, with responsibility and moderation. unfortunately, the attitude of mr barón, president of the group of the party of european socialists, is not very good in this respect. it is a pity that he is not present at this moment. mr barón raised doubts about the activities of mrs de palacio, vice-president of the commission. mrs de palacio has a lot of experience in defending european interests. many are indebted to him. in addition, his commitment to the cause of the victims of terrorism, to freedom and the right to life in the basque country is irrevocable. i must say, mr president, that i was surprised to hear mr barón speak of granting so-called certificates of compatibility when we know that he holds a seat in this house and at the same time a seat in the municipal council of the city of madrid. in conclusion, i would like to say that the measures proposed by the president of the commission are in the right direction, as they also take account of developments in what has become known as the eurostat case. although i have different political views, i have no doubt about the integrity of the commissioner in question. in recent times there has been a general reluctance to stand up for someone else. however, i am prepared to answer for the honesty of the commissioner responsible for eurostat and the measures he has proposed concerning the amendment of olaf's powers. these measures are in the right direction and are aimed at restoring the strategic alliance and harmonious balance between parliament and the commission on which so much progress in the european union project is based.
- mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i am addressing you as president of the conference of committee chairmen. as you know, the parliamentary committees have been fully involved in the preparation of the legislative and work programme which mr prodi has just presented. it is thanks to this interinstitutional dialogue that we now have a programme for 2004, which largely reflects the common priorities of our institutions. however, there is certainly still room for improvement. although not all the requests made by the parliamentary committees have been taken into account by the commission, experience shows that the reliability of the timetables could still be improved. for example, 17 of the 22 co-decision proposals foreseen in the 2004 programme were already included in previous annual programmes and should therefore have been submitted long ago. it is therefore essential that this programme be closely monitored on a bilateral basis. i would remind you that parliament last year launched the idea of guidance documents for each legislative area. as a basis for more detailed programming, this would also fully meet the objectives of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, which requires both better coordination and synchronisation of legislative work between the three institutions. i emphasize the three institutions, because the council is still absent from the structured dialogue. the first multiannual programme of the council will be presented at the next european council in brussels. it would be appropriate to inform the european parliament in good time of the programme, so that a constructive dialogue can be established between the three institutions concerned. i would also like to draw your attention to the need to agree with the commission on an ad hoc dialogue procedure for 2004. we will be discussing this issue this afternoon in the conference of committee chairs, but i believe it is imperative that everything is done to ensure that all the actors concerned, including national parliaments and advisory bodies and ultimately the european citizens, have a legislative programme for 2005 in good time. while the present commission will indeed be able to present the political strategies and the budget for 2005 to the union before october next year, it must also be able to present its legislative programme in the same month of october. last year i expressed my conviction that, through structured dialogue, a genuine culture of interinstitutional planning and programming was being established. the experience of recent months and the outlook cover the institutional agreement on better lawmaking and fully confirm this conviction. it is up to all of us to work together on this in the interests of all our fellow citizens.
- (es) mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president-in-office of the council, it was planned that the programme drawn up at the tampere european council would be concluded this year. in addition, in the short time remaining, we must integrate the ten new member states into this objective. the objective is still not defined. we have repeatedly expressed parliament's concern about the integration of the tampere objectives into the acceding countries. internally, i am very concerned about the length of list 4 at this late stage. this is the list awaiting a decision by the legislator. it contains the directive on the conditions for entry and residence in the european union for the purpose of work or study. it also contains the future decision on the granting of asylum status and on the minimum conditions for applying for asylum in europe. the long-term resident status and the family reunification directive should also be on this list. although a decision has been taken on the latter point, there are so many exceptions that this directive is no better than fifteen different pieces of legislation. the problem is certainly within the council's competence. however, it is also the commission's responsibility to defend the programme it has proposed itself and to defend it to the letter. this programme is good, consistent and comprehensive. the commission must defend it, as mr prodi said a few weeks ago in this house when he spoke in the wake of the tragedy of the victims in italy. unfortunately, this tragedy has been repeated in spain. mr prodi, you can count on our support to defend the programme before the council. the council is currently pressing hard for strong action on what it calls illegal immigration. these measures are doomed to failure. my statement is not ideological. on the contrary, i would say that it is clearly impossible to take into account only the views of the home ministers on a complex and global issue such as immigration. i urge you to put immigration, in its broadest sense, on the agenda of relations with our neighbours. it must be a factor in achieving stability and prosperity. immigration must also be linked to employment, as has already been the case. you can count on our support in this regard. there is also a long list of pending decisions in the area of cooperation in criminal matters. the list contains, curiously enough, among other things, directives on the protection of community interests and the fight against trafficking in human beings. like i said, that's the weird thing. i ask you to resolve these issues as a matter of priority. once again, you can count on the support of parliament.
i have to say, mr poettering. i am very worried because mr prodi proposed in july last year that a list should be drawn up this year. they wake up five months later. it is a grave mistake on the part of your party that it took you five months to realise that mr prodi is making policy in italy! secondly, it is absurd, and that is why i said that you are here as a moral preacher, because you want to protect berlusconi, who is presently presenting a bad political figure as president of the union. (applause from the centre) i find it intolerable that you stand up here and say: "i built bridges, and you did not cross that bridge". mr prodi has the right to cross the bridges he wants to cross and not the ones you are building. you must understand that once and for all, mr president! it is absurd that you should stand here and say: 'what you have said is absolutely correct, and i regret that mr berlusconi did not say that. that is why you cannot say that, mr prodi, because i want mr berlusconi to say that. that's your problem. i would like to ask you to take this up with your group and leave us alone and let mr prodi do politics as he wishes without you constantly being morally critical of him. (applause from the left, noise from the right)
- (it) i would like to remind each of us of the role that the institutions should play and ask them not to confuse their respective roles. i say this because someone has spoken of president berlusconi, who, until proven otherwise, is the head of a government and has the right, as such, to take political decisions in his country. the council appointed mr prodi, who had the support of parliament. we respect him as president of the commission and we have asked him to be president of the commission. i agree with what mr poettering and mr barón crespo said, because the substance of their speech was the same: president prodi has the right to resume political activities when and as he wishes, but not as president of the european commission. given enlargement, the fight against terrorism and the difficulties we face every day in trying to make our institutions more transparent to citizens, none of us can exploit europe for domestic political purposes. i hope that what was said today was partly due to the strong emotional tension and that in the next few hours everyone will return to the position for which he was appointed. if someone wants to resign from his current position, let him make it clear: he can take up another position, but he cannot hold two institutional positions at the same time. as for mr cohn-bendit's statement, it is possible that mr poettering has two souls, but it is better to have two souls than none at all. (applause from the right)
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, i regret the outcome of the vote that has just taken place and we take note of what the majority of this house has said. the commission will therefore, in accordance with the framework agreement and the agreements reached with parliament, take the appropriate measures and i will inform the college of commissioners of what has happened here.
in writing. - (pt) as i have said on many occasions, the knowledge society is more than just an aspiration; it is already a tangible reality. in this respect, i approve, support and encourage any action to provide a practical basis for political declarations such as the lisbon strategy of 2000 and the eeurope plan adopted in seville in 2002. i therefore voted for this report, although i am convinced that the specific amounts allocated must be gradually increased. if, as proposed by the commission, community funding for projects submitted under the eten programme is increased from 10% to 30%, with the concomitant decrease in the number of approved projects - as the overall budget will remain unchanged - a real increase in funds made available must take place. it is in these areas, and not in fanciful legal texts looking to the future, that european solidarity must find its roots and it is also on this basis that we must build a genuine eu that is bound to become ever stronger and ever more firmly rooted. as the rapporteur has pointed out, several projects 'whose potential was identified' were never realised because of a lack of financial resources at the deployment stage. this is all the more regrettable as we know that some of these projects, notably in the areas of health, learning and safety, could bring considerable benefits to our citizens.
in writing. - (pt) although i voted against the report in question - in full accordance with the voting position defined by the parliamentary group of the party of european socialists - i think that this initiative of the commission is entirely valid and that it constitutes an extremely positive step towards a better functioning of the internal market. as i said during the debate on the report, the proposal for the rejection of the directive by the committee on economic and monetary affairs must be regarded by the commission as an incentive to amend the additional elements on which the proposal for rejection is based, without taking away the fundamental reasons on which the directive is based.
in writing. - the vote on this report is an opportunity for me to pay tribute to the great parliamentarian rolf linkhor and to commend commissioner busquin for the extraordinary work he has done during his term of office, which is now coming to an end, to give research a genuine european dimension. now we must move up the quantity ladder, start preparing the 7th fp7 with a budget of €30 million, and put pressure on those member states which do not increase or even reduce their research funding. the future of europe, its independence, growth and jobs depend on it.
in writing. - (pt) in portugal, the approximate figures for the current level of investment in research and development (r & d) are very worrying, as total expenditure - as a percentage of gdp - is around 0.8%. the total is divided as follows: 65% comes from the state, 30% from the private sector and 5% from abroad (mainly from european funds). we should also not forget that the future of private r & d investment depends on the evolution of many other aspects of society as well as changes in the workforce and the overall development of the country. these issues are far beyond the scope of science and technology policy. the european parliament's report is relevant, reflecting current concerns about the level of development of r & d activities in europe and the specificities and needs of the sector. one aspect that deserves particular attention is the importance the report attaches to the need to increase public sector investment, as it is essential to the progress of r & d in the private sector. although the report leaves some points vague, it supports the commission's proposals overall and adds a few more, including the increase in the financial allocation of the seventh framework programme for research (to €30 billion), the creation of 'technopoles' and the establishment of a european research council.
in writing. - research is an essential element for europe to return to a sustainable path of growth. i say sustainable, because it is not just a question of boosting economic activity in the short term, but of ensuring the existence of an innovative and vital european industry in the long term, in line with the objectives of lisbon and gothenburg. that is why i voted in favour of mr linkhor's report and i hope that it will serve to increase investment in research, both in the member states' budgets and in the union's budget. however, we must remain vigilant and avoid taking measures under the guise of supporting innovation which tend to satisfy certain industrial lobbies, often outside the union, to the detriment of the very interests of our researchers and entrepreneurs. i voted against paragraph 28, whose ambiguous wording might suggest that parliament is reversing its position on the draft directive on software patentability, to the detriment of innovative smes in the sector and to the benefit of us multinationals who want to maintain their dominant position.
in writing. - we are all in awe of the way electronic technologies and communications are used and their subsequent effects on our collective economies. the fundamental question today is not so much about the technologies themselves, but rather how they are used to contribute to growth through improved productivity. if we are to reap the real and tangible benefits of the new information technologies in constant evolution, we must invest in the reorganisation of our companies as well as in our administrative structures. one of the key elements of this investment is to ensure that new broadband facilities are made available at every opportunity. i am pleased to hear the commissioner for information technology, erkki liikanen, say that the number of broadband connections has doubled from 9 million in july 2002 to 17.5 million in july 2003. i strongly support the european commission's target of having half of all internet connections in the european union be broadband by 2005. the european member states are also invited to connect all their public administrations to the broadband network by 2005. i am broadly in favour of the eeurope initiative which focuses on promoting the use of broadband and on areas where the public sector can make a difference. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
- this ends the explanations of vote. (the sitting was suspended at 12.55 p.m. and resumed at 3.05 p.m.)
- (nl) mr president, madam commissioner, madam rapporteur, thank you for the dynamism you have brought to your work. the task of politicians and decision-makers in the field of security measures, and in this case in ports and on ships, is to strike a difficult balance between the feasibility and the desired effect of the measures envisaged. this is a thankless task from the start, as port authorities and shipping companies who are required to enforce the new regulations will always see them as a nuisance. the question for the legislator is whether the measures envisaged will actually improve safety in the maritime sector. the sector has so far enjoyed a good reputation for safety. if this is to remain the case thanks to this legislation, the question is whether europe will receive the honours. laxity is not the answer. it is therefore particularly important to implement these measures as soon as possible, but without doing so at the expense of the others. i find it strange that europe is going beyond what was agreed in the imo framework, in particular by wanting to apply the measures to national shipping too. it should be noted that the united states, which forced us to vote on these measures in the context of the wto, is not doing so itself. why is europe aiming so high? the administrative burden imposed on our national shipping will make it more difficult to transport goods across europe. this measure particularly affects small ports with a turnover of only a few hundred thousand euros. the addition of obstacles to freight transport means that the transport sector will, in general, have to bear additional costs. these are all additional costs that lead to inefficiency, an inefficiency that means that the lisbon objectives are certainly not ready to be achieved. at this rate, we will never be competitive internationally. meanwhile, ships carrying goods sail along the east and west coasts of america without ever seeing port authorities or customs officers. in europe it will be a different story, since our internal market unfortunately does not apply to our coastline. there is no national shipping between the netherlands and belgium. this is still considered international but should now be part of the internal market. internal maritime borders should therefore be abolished. in conclusion, i should like to say that, in general, i intend to support the amendments tabled by the group of the party of european socialists. i shall withdraw my amendment no 42 because amendment no 65 tabled by the group of the party of european socialists is preferable.
- (el) mr president, the quintessence of the european union is not to defend the ideals of democracy and freedom put forward in this report, but to serve big business, and in this case the shipping industry. laws and measures are therefore needed to protect their interests. the aim is to increase their excessive profits by abolishing the basic rights of seafarers. once again, under the guise of fighting terrorism, an attempt is being made to impose a regime of espionage and police in ports and on ships through a vast network of surveillance and repression in order to thwart political and trade union action and to trample on the popular movement, despite the reactions provoked by the promotion of privatisation. this is why nothing is said about the real problems and threats to maritime safety, namely the health and safety of those working on ships and in ports, the age of the fleet and the 'cut-throat' or 'neighbourhood' ports advocated by the privatisation directive. nor is there any mention of the responsibility of the large shipowners, who are so much a part of the tragic maritime crimes that they are becoming new terrorists. not a single reference to the fact that regional decisions on ship safety considerably weaken the role of the international maritime organization, as well as safety rules in the context of economic warfare and a race for profit. this regulation is a regrettable transaction between capitalists at the expense of the safety of life at sea and the marine environment, in order to increase excessive profits. shipping companies have little accountability and this is reinforced by flags of convenience, privatisation of shipping registers and the absence of substantial inspections or controls by national authorities. these are the real threats to shipping, not the phantom pirates the european union is hunting. it is important that a large and dynamic popular movement develops to counter these policies which aim to seize public property and impose a medieval work regime and slave wages.
- (es) mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs miguélez ramos, for her work and her willingness to reach an agreement quickly so that we can adopt without delay and therefore apply such a measure immediately. as some of my colleagues have rightly said in this debate on the regulation, we are faced with a series of dangers linked to terrorism. we have adopted measures in parliament. we have adopted measures on the initiative of the commission, which has been actively presenting proposals throughout this parliamentary term to improve safety in all types of transport. we have adopted them and are about to adopt others in the field of maritime transport. in the shipping sector we fear international organized terrorism, but there is also a form of terrorism which causes desolation at the national level, as in spain. we must fight this terrorism by taking the necessary measures, and that is precisely what we are doing. clearly we are facing problems and some adjustments will have to be made, but improving our security, improving traffic safety, improving security in ports is a necessity and an obligation that we have to comply with. i would therefore like to congratulate the commissioner on her proposals and the rapporteur on her determination and willingness to implement these measures as soon as possible.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, just as in previous readings, we are not satisfied with the compromise reached in the conciliation committee in september. in view of the very close vote - 8 in favour, 7 against - we are not alone. yet mr jarzembowski was there with all his conviction, and it is great. while we agreed from the outset that the search for increased efficiency was necessary to meet the challenge of competitiveness in a globalised economy, we did not want this to be done in any way, with only one final objective: the total liberalisation of port services. technical, social and environmental security must remain the objective to be preserved, whatever the reform implemented. however, if piloting has been superficially protected from unbridled competition, the freedom given to each state seems to us too great and contradictory to the notion of public service, a quality recognized by the services in question, whether by the states themselves or by the court of justice of the european union. similarly, in the field of self-help, social and environmental security could be jeopardised by the direct use by shipowners of their own equipment and personnel, who will be inexperienced, untrained, and casual. it is unlikely that the social protection of employees and optimal safety constraints will outweigh the search for economic viability through cheap labour. while the entire supply chain - piloting, docking and unloading - requires professionals trained in such exercises to avoid any risk of accident, self-help will level the services provided, professional qualifications and environmental safety from the bottom up, adding a social cost linked to job cuts. in conclusion, we say no to the creation of self-service ports and self-help at terminal level.
- commissioner, you started the debate on the prestige by explaining that maritime space was a space of uncontrolled freedom, a kind of jungle that had to be subjected to rules. what was true in the field of security is, alas, even more true in the social field. we all know that crews are particularly diverse, both in terms of nationality and social or geographical origin. under these conditions, self-help is simply introducing the social jungle of maritime space into our ports. the main problem of course lies in checking compliance with both the social rules of the host country and the social rules of the port. who would believe that two filipinos, three malays, two argentines and an african who are self-help workers will suddenly, because they set foot in a port where their ship has just docked, respect the same social rules as the country of that port? naturally, it was at this point that dockers, and not just dockers, but also handling companies throughout europe, understood that competition was being sought through social dumping, that is, by the social dismantling of an entire profession, whether public or private. that is why we cannot accept the introduction of the wolf into the sheepfold. instead, madam commissioner, we should really tackle - and all the people should understand this - the anarchy that reigns in the matter of flags and crews reduced to slavery, and ensure that all the rules are applied, which are totally circumvented by most of the countries of the international maritime organisation, which everyone knows are pirate countries, as are the shipowners who are their nationals. if we were able to put things right, if we were also able to harmonize tax and social conditions between our own countries - and this is true both in the field of heavy goods vehicles and in the maritime field - then certainly a directive like this would gain credibility, and then we could talk about fair competition. unfortunately, what you are proposing is more of a social dismantling, and in these circumstances we cannot take that risk.
- mr president, madam commissioner, this is not the first time that this directive has been discussed. i still think that this is a liberal directive, which has only one priority: reducing costs at the expense of safety, employment and the quality of services. the major problem is self-help. even with self-help for the on-board staff, as you have mentioned, assuming that this will not affect the social legislation of the member states in any way - which remains to be seen - in fact, ship crews or specially hired workers will be able to carry out handling operations in place of the current qualified personnel. self-help, whether we like it or not, is tantamount to allowing social dumping, even though it is now accompanied by references to safety and the qualifications of staff. such a system is dangerous for people because it will allow practices detrimental to safety: insufficient qualifications, lack of knowledge of places and instructions, lack of understanding of the language, insufficient supervision. this will enable any shipowner to use labour at a discount, which is dangerous for ports and their environment. this problem also affects other professions than handling, in particular those of rowers and pilots, excluded from the first version, and those related to towing, which have constraints vis-à-vis the port authorities. i would add that the council's failure to grant the necessary authorizations to the owners of self-help centres will lead, as my colleague mr savary said, to the introduction of the law of the jungle in the whole sector. this is a challenge to all the skilled personnel who have hitherto been involved in port security: dockers, who under difficult conditions carry out a very important economic mission by ensuring safety, and maritime services such as handling and steering, which are universally recognised as services of general interest. all these sectors should be considered as key partners contributing to the objective of maritime security and sustainable development. the proposal before us can only have serious social consequences, including for employment in ports. there was no real consultation of the parties concerned. today we are asked to vote on a text which is rejected by all the port professionals. that is a curious conception of democracy. last night, here in strasbourg, employee representatives met with the groups to present their views and to alert us. i think we should not remain deaf to this warning. these people have arguments that we need to hear. finally, i would like to say that it seems to me impossible to think about this directive in the context of our discussions on maritime safety. our parliament has voted in favour of a temporary committee of inquiry into the prestige. we have discussed a great deal here about the various measures for maritime safety and you, commissioner, have made substantial proposals. i personally never forget that in the various meetings i had on the french coast following the damage caused by the prestige, all the maritime professionals always insisted that safety began in ports. you were talking about consistency, commissioner. i think there is still an incredible inconsistency in taking positive measures concerning maritime safety on the one hand and destroying them in fact on the other with the decision on self-help. for the sake of safety, employment and the sustainable development of european ports, we must reject this text.
- mr president, by rejecting the text proposed to us on port services, i am expressing my own opinion, but i am also interpreting the protests expressed by a large number of trade union organizations. this self-help project gives shipowners the possibility of carrying out any port activity using their own staff and equipment. it opens the door to all kinds of abuses of the shipping marlins. the directive does not, of course, require shipowners to pay their staff the same wages as dockers, or even to comply with labour legislation. shipowners can hire workers without guarantees at low prices and impose on them the working conditions they want. the consequences will be the loss of stable jobs in port areas and the increase in the number of precarious, low-paid, over-exploited, inexperienced workers, with all the threats to the environment and safety that this entails. we reject this directive. its implementation would be a threat to all those who make their living from port activities; it would increase the risk of accidents and pollution. we also reject it because it puts workers from different corporations - seafarers and dockers - in competition with each other to make conditions worse for both, for the sole benefit of the shipowners. the opening up of port services to competition is in the same retrograde spirit as the opening up of rail transport, air traffic control, post and telecommunications. we are against it. port activities, like all activities which are directly or indirectly useful to the general public, must be considered as public services and must be protected from the harmful effects of competition and competition for profit.
- mr president, if there is one thing that is certain about cancer, it is that early detection increases the chances of cure. testing is therefore essential, particularly in those exposed to mutagens or carcinogens. equal access to screening programmes for all must also be guaranteed. to this end, awareness campaigns aimed at informing the public are imperative. the report by mr mussa recalls these basic principles and we shall vote in favour of this text without hesitation. the report also proposes the creation of cancer registries to target firstly population groups with a high prevalence for environmental or dietary reasons. this is a fundamental passage, because we have to go further. screening, although essential, is in fact only a secondary prevention measure. it is necessary to act upstream, to identify the influence of factors such as nutrition, environment, lifestyle and to try to reduce their importance. this is true prevention: eliminating the causes or the terrain that is conducive to the disease, rather than trying to absorb it too late. i am very concerned about the latest statistics showing an increase in lung cancer linked to smoking, especially in women, but also breast, uterine and prostate cancers, directly linked to the influence of hormones. we need to highlight the factors that are driving the development of these cancers: endocrine disruptors, dietary hormones and others. thus, the increase in prostate cancers in some groups of farmers is directly linked to pesticide use. similarly, pollution, electromagnetic waves and other chemical factors have been shown to increase the risk of certain cancers. we must remember the problem of asbestos and the seventy years it took to ban it. we are now measuring the impact in hospitals. these underlying problems must be tackled and public health policies extended to other areas if we are to truly tackle cancer in europe.
mr president, this draft directive raises a number of problems. many european policies and directives, such as the fourth water directive and the sixth environmental programme, deal with soil protection. a similar problem is found in the forest-focus programme. a whole range of projects and directives on environmental responsibility also deal with this subject. what is the point, on the other hand, of defining soil at european level, of drawing up a scientific catalogue of soils for 2007 with a harmonisation of soil data, if not to note their diversity, which we already knew? what is the point of making a diagnosis of the consequences of the cap reform once it has been adopted? in our view, a simple recommendation would be sufficient and would avoid penalising farmers who are already severely handicapped by the cap reform. let us simplify and streamline the existing texts and finally bring european subsidies into line with the objective pursued by encouraging techniques which favour the protection of soils and the conservation of wildlife, such as non-labor and direct sowing.
commission. – mr president, the commission welcomes the outcome of the conciliation process and is pleased that the co-legislators decided not only to broaden the scope of the seveso ii directive in the light of the accidents in baia mare, enschede and toulouse, but also to strengthen its provisions. the new directive now covers chemical and thermal processing operations in mining as well as all operational tailings disposal facilities containing dangerous mining waste. furthermore, its scope was tightened with regard to explosive and pyrotechnic substances as well as ammonium nitrate. taking into account the results of two studies carried out by the commission, the directive also includes more carcinogenic substances, and the qualifying quantities for substances toxic to the aquatic environment have been significantly decreased. moreover, and particularly due to requests by the european parliament, the directive has now been strengthened in a number of other areas such as information for the public, training for emergencies and the involvement of subcontracted personnel. its provisions on land-use planning were reinforced, including a mandate for the commission to develop a european database to be used for assessing the compatibility between seveso establishments and sensitive areas. the new directive now also obliges industrial operators to produce risk maps showing areas that might be affected by a major accidents. last, but not least, member states are required to provide the commission with minimum data on all seveso sites on their territory. i would like to congratulate mr lisi, the rapporteur, on his work, as well as all members who have contributed to ensuring the successful outcome of this legislative process.
- mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating our colleague, mr giorgio lisi, on his excellent work on this sensitive subject. as a member of the toulouse parliament, i can tell you how, two years after the fact, the tragedy of the explosion at the azf factory is still extraordinarily present in the city, in the minds, and often even in the flesh of the victims of the disaster. we had to deal with this tragedy with the mayor of toulouse, philippe douste-blazy, and to provide local solutions. but if we wanted to prevent this from happening again in the future, we had to go further and legislate. and that is what our institution did by addressing this issue as early as 3 october 2001. in this respect, i am particularly pleased that constructive cooperation between the commission, the council and parliament has led to a consensus on the question of ammonium nitrate at second reading and that the permitted nitrate thresholds in the plants at risk have now been raised to a level which might have prevented the explosion in toulouse. in many areas, the work carried out at third reading and conciliation provides for further progress with new precautionary measures, and in our legislative action we naturally have in mind the safety of workers working in the sites of the factories at risk. training measures for these staff are therefore necessary and even indispensable, but as giorgio lisi has said, they must not be limited to the employees of the factory at risk, they must be extended to the employees of the subcontracting companies. the extension of the training effort to them does not seem to me to be a bureaucratically inspired and fussy measure, but rather a protective measure. i welcome the result of conciliation on this point. we also have a duty to respond to the legitimate concern of the public for better information on these issues. the industrialists concerned must, on their own initiative, make progress towards greater transparency in their activities. the european parliament has also taken the initiative of contributing to the improvement of public information by drawing up a risk map. this is a step forward, but it is still necessary that the people on the ground are informed of the existence and accessibility of these security documents. mr president, i am of course aware, and the people of toulouse are aware, that this report does not constitute an absolute safeguard against industrial accidents. there can be no such thing as absolute protection, but i am equally sure that our parliament, by tackling the problem quickly and providing for stronger protection rules, has shown how well europe also knew how to respond when necessary to the immediate concerns of our fellow citizens, and for that i thank you.
- mr president, i think everyone is pleased with the quality of the contribution of this parliament's delegation to the convention. today our only points of contact are our two representatives at the intergovernmental conference. so i will ask you the following question, mr president: do you think that the small arrangements behind closed doors at the level of one of our groups help to consolidate the authority that our two representatives must have in this conference? why, mr president, did the group to which you belong not represent the candidacy of mr andrew duff, who would have had some legitimacy, it seems to me, to represent us in this conference?
- mr president, we are approaching the deadline originally set for the igc's work. the presidency of the council has just reminded us of the main points of blockage which remain: the composition of the commission, the functions of the foreign minister, the definition of the qualified majority in the council, the role of the european parliament in the budgetary procedure, the procedure for revising the constitution. these are not minor matters. some of them concern the distribution of powers between institutions and between member countries, others concern the highly sensitive question of national identities, and still others seek to avoid being locked into institutional structures that are virtually immovable. anyone who imagined that this kind of friction would not occur was sinning in my eyes by unrealism. i am not surprised or upset by this tension. if these were the only obstacles to be overcome in order to be able to rejoice in the success of the conference, then i would say, as the italian foreign minister, mr frattini, has done elsewhere, that today there is a solution to 95% of the problems. unfortunately, that's not the case. for there is definitely a dimension of this draft constitution which seems as taboo for the heads of state and government as it was for the president of the convention. these are the policies of the union and, in particular, what i called here on 3 september, when i called on mr giscard d'estaing, the constitutionalisation of the liberal model or, in another register, the inclusion, in the fundamental law of the future europe, of a genuine act of allegiance to nato. the union is only meaningful to citizens through the implementation of its policies. it is not i who say this, it is the commission, in its communication of 17 september on the constitution. but the union's policies, which account for three quarters of the draft treaty, are never mentioned. do you think they are so unanimous in public opinion? that would be reckless, of course. perhaps i will make some of you smile by referring to the european social forum which has just been held in the paris region. it would be a mistake, however, to regard his recent appeal to the union with irony or autistic indifference. hundreds of debates, attended by 50,000 young people from all over europe, expressed their thirst for knowledge, understanding, change and concrete action. how will we respond? in the face of the perpetuation of the entire community acquis of the single market and the maastricht treaty, they will not be satisfied with a paragraph 2 of article 3 which promises paradise on earth. they are calling for real change, and on this basis a large part of public opinion is sympathetic to them. in some countries, such as france, for example, the debate, which was still non-existent on 3 september when we were raising the problem of the hidden face of the draft constitution - to which you alluded, mr president - has been constantly expanding and deepening ever since. so much so that many observers in this country no longer exclude the possibility of a 'no' victory in the event of ratification of the treaty by referendum. in general, you might say, we're not there. for the moment, there is a lull in opinion in many countries. i'll take that. should we be happy about that? let's be careful of the sleeping water. today's quiet malaise may turn the tide in tomorrow's elections. i would much rather have a somewhat disorderly but generous and supportive debate than a bitter and hopeless retreat that can lead to the worst. i therefore take the liberty, on behalf of my group, of appealing to those of you who shared this diagnosis. europe has been built from the top down for too long. today, that is no longer the case. let us ask very strongly that the growing demands of our societies be heard and taken seriously. there is little time left to react and give meaning to the european project in the eyes of our fellow citizens.
- mr president, to return briefly to mrs berès's speech a moment ago, i think it is particularly awkward - and i weigh my words - for the european parliament to be represented at the intergovernmental conference by two members of the same nationality, that is to say, german, which demonstrates a point that was raised quite often during the convention, namely the overrepresentation of germany in the european parliament, which is undoubtedly one of the most dangerous consequences of the treaty of nice. i admit that i do not know how the conference of presidents takes its decisions, but the fact that this point, which does not seem to be secondary, was not raised, seems to me regrettable for the image of parliament and europe in the years to come. although it is difficult to make a judgment at this stage on the igc, i believe that we must share the commission's concern, because it seems to me that we are moving from charybdis to scylla. the convention had tried, at first, to look at the content of european policies - economic, social, monetary, foreign - and finally settled for a modest institutional compromise. that said, i think that in comparison the intergovernmental conference is moving farther away from the concerns of european citizens to become a kind of flea market for voting quotas and seats, and this is happening even as european citizens are turning - as mr wurtz alluded to, you were aware of this - more and more directly against europe in order to challenge the very foundations of european construction, as was seen with this european social forum which, personally, i would have renamed the 'european sovereignist forum' in view of the debates held there. finally, we could talk a lot about the bridges, which are in fact dark tunnels, where the last prerogatives of national democracies are going to be lost. but i would like to refer to an incident that took place yesterday to show this parliament just a little bit how schizophrenic it can be from time to time. one group, the largest in our institution, has attacked mr prodi for his involvement in italian politics, and this is happening at a time when all the representatives of this parliament have been fighting during the convention to ensure that the president of the commission is elected by parliament and that it is therefore possible to campaign. i remember this question being raised several times. it would be so interesting to campaign for prodi or aznar in the european elections! mr prodi yesterday merely anticipated a decision which i regard as regrettable, namely the politicization of the office of president of the commission.
- mr president, the meeting of the igc foreign ministers on 18 november dealt in particular with a very important problem which the convention had never really discussed: the clauses for revising the draft european constitution. some suggested moving towards a relaxation of the unanimity requirement for certain revisions, notably the one on the third part of the draft, the one on union policies. such majority revisions are unacceptable because they would impose changes to the constitutional pact on minority peoples. unanimity must be maintained and differentiated cooperation must respond to possible deadlock situations. i would also like to point out in passing that this third part contains essential provisions; that it has hardly been considered by the convention and that the intergovernmental conference is about to follow the same path. all this shows that this titanic ambition to rewrite all the treaties at once risks leading to the approval of contested policies without a genuine democratic debate. the meeting of foreign ministers also examined the many individual and general closures which abound in the project. we reject these bridge clauses which are designed to circumvent the formal review procedure, which will exclude the national parliaments from the procedure and which will make it even less transparent to the citizens. of course, this would not be the case if each national parliament considered separately, or each people by referendum, had a formal right of opposition. mr president, the aim of this new revision of the treaties should have been to close the democratic deficit, to bring europe closer to the citizens and to enhance the role of the national parliaments. the intergovernmental conference is not moving in this direction, however, since it is tending to adopt the draft convention as a whole, which does not address the real problem of democracy and which even distances europe from its peoples. we call on the commission to set the bar again: there is still time before the compromise of 28 november.
- mr president, first of all, it is impossible to ignore the israeli-palestinian conflict, which is so tragic for the people and which in fact prevents any development of the euromed partnership. only a just and lasting solution can bring peace to the region. only the end of the israeli military occupation, the destruction of the wall of shame and the creation of a palestinian state alongside the state of israel can lead to peace and put an end to the unbearable and murderous treatment of the occupied palestinian population and israeli civilians. a glimmer of hope was born with what is now known as the geneva accords, negotiated for over two years by delegations led by yossi beilin and yasser abed rabbo. it would be appropriate for the foreign ministers meeting in naples to give their full support to this plan, which shows that there are interlocutors for a just peace on both sides, contrary to what politics, particularly that of the sharon government, is trying to show. the euro-mediterranean framework can be a valuable asset in helping to create a climate of trust that allows for genuine dialogue. a first sign would be that high-level delegations, both from the union and from arab countries in particular, would attend the official signing of these agreements on 1 december in geneva, the day before the ministerial conference. a second sign would certainly be to see a union that would make every effort to get the quartet to support this initiative as well. as regards the issues of the conference in general, the fact that europe is taking an interest in its future neighbours, particularly in the south, is a good thing, as is the announcement of a foundation for dialogue between cultures, the creation of which is still dependent on the allocation of financial resources. however, the guidelines proposed by the commission in its preparatory communication are worrying. indeed, it is not certain that the new neighbourhood policy will be sufficient to inject 'new dynamism into the barcelona process', since the very logic of integrating these countries into the single european market leads to imposing liberal recipes on them, without taking into account their specific characteristics or the serious economic and social problems they face. while this model is increasingly being criticised, while even the french proposals for a revival of the partnership mention 'consequences that could be seriously destabilising', the commission does not at any time question itself. without even waiting for the impact study of the free trade area which it has itself launched, it is pushing for a reinforcement of reciprocal liberalisation of agricultural and services trade. the call for the private sector to do so is still well below the needs of the mediterranean countries. this shortsighted logic is deeply dangerous. the need to build common ground in the mediterranean is urgent, otherwise the almost permanent stigmatization and humiliation of the arab-muslim world, in particular, and the inequalities that accompany it will only fuel religious fundamentalism or the use of terrorism by increasingly dangerous groups. two other challenges, finally: we must put an end to the obsession with security and establish freedom of movement. as for human rights, let us establish genuine specific mechanisms. i express my solidarity with radhia nasraoui, a tunisian lawyer who has just started a new hunger strike.
- mr president, as the reunification of europe is about to become a reality, although we know that much remains to be done, a page of history is turning before our eyes. now the mediterranean is on the other page. the challenge for the next 30 years is to create an integrated mediterranean community of almost 900 million women and men. and to meet this new challenge, we need real ambition and the instruments of dialogue. the instrument of political dialogue we need is the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, whose birth the naples conference must celebrate, because only political dialogue can establish a genuine, balanced, in-depth and lasting partnership. this is why the european parliamentary forum was set up in 1998. but in its informal configuration, it remained a helpless witness, too dependent on the vagaries of international news, hostage to the fires of the middle east. in naples, this forum must become a genuine parliamentary assembly in order to acquire new democratic legitimacy, to fulfil fully its role as an instrument of dialogue for peace, stability and regional development. i am convinced that it will be more than that, because it will also be a new beginning for the whole of euro-mediterranean relations. this is an opportunity to build a new ambition for the south. the union seems to have finally realised this today, by trying to give substance to the so-called concept of neighbourhood. but let us not miss the point. distinguishing and honoring good neighbors may mean they'll never be part of the family. but it's not time for the southern deception market. the free trade area and the credo of 'everything but the institutions' which has prevailed in the context of euro-mediterranean relations until now are obsolete. on the political front, we must put in place the future common framework for euro-mediterranean relations, a free union inspired by the council of europe, based on common objectives and shared values: common security, secularism, the rule of law, democracy. and on the economic front, we must launch a genuine marshall plan for the mediterranean to bring about that shared prosperity which was already enshrined in the barcelona declaration.
- in accordance with our rules of procedure, i will ask if there is one speaker who wishes to speak in favour of this request for a deferral and one speaker who wishes to speak against it.
- excuse me, mr president, but our rules are very strict: your request must be made to the quaestor and not to the house. if you have information to give to the plenary, we have scheduled time slots for that at the beginning of the sitting. i cannot interrupt the vote for that kind of explanation. i hope you'll forgive me.
- it'll be forwarded to the language services, don't worry. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
- yes, it's on the lists. part of amendments nos 11 and 12 have been withdrawn and are therefore not included in the compromise package. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
- very well, i take it from your statement, mr rapporteur, that this cancels out any request for referral. we shall therefore proceed to the vote as requested. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
- ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to inform you that, in the context of interparliamentary relations, the knesset delegation for relations with the european parliament, led by its president, mrs naomi blumenthal, is visiting the european parliament. (applause) in welcoming mrs blumenthal and the members of her delegation, i would like to stress the importance we attach to such a visit, particularly in the present circumstances. the dramatic events facing the israeli and palestinian peoples on a daily basis make it more necessary than ever to resume the dialogue between the two sides, a dialogue which the european parliament has always encouraged. that is why, without wishing to go into the details of the conflict which has affected your region for too long, i hope that the talks you will have with the members of the european parliament will be fruitful and that they will be able to contribute, through better mutual information, to highlighting better the conditions under which a just and lasting peace between all the parties concerned can finally put an end to this endless conflict which affects your region and which, day after day, causes the disappearance of too many innocent victims among the israeli and palestinian populations. (applause) (to mr cappato, who is requesting the floor) mr. cappato, we are at the voting time. i'd rather continue, if you don't mind. especially after the announcement i just made, i don't want to open the debate. * *
- given the time, i suggest we suspend the votes. they will resume immediately after the solemn session. i call mr chichester.
- all right, you'll have all the explanations. i'm adjourning the sitting for a few minutes pending the formal sitting. (the sitting was suspended at 11.55 a.m. to make way for the formal sitting and resumed at 12.35 p.m.) solemnity - address by mrs mary mcaleese, president of ireland: see annex - solemnity.
- we have noted your comment, although i am not sure that the language of the session is english. (laughter and applause) before the final vote
- all right, we take note of your statement, mr rapporteur. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. - in matters of security, there can be no derogation, no lax tolerance. we must get shipping out of the profit maximisation laws and create another international maritime organisation which is able to respect social needs, workers and the environment. we need more regulations, more coercive international laws and the abolition of the complaisance system. the prestige oil tanker disaster, which occurred just a year ago, and its human, social and environmental consequences remind us every day, from a coruña to calais, of these needs. my priority in this area is not the fight against terrorism, but the fight against sea bandits. i supported all the amendments to include in the regulation the strengthening of security measures in community ports, to cover all the personnel concerned, not only seafarers but also all professionals working occasionally in port areas and to extend the scope of the regulation to vessels carrying containers, petroleum products and dangerous goods. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the office which the council is preparing to set up is responsible for 'network and information security'. its initiators are mainly concerned with what they call the 'business world' and the protection of this small world against 'computer crime'. some elements of the so-called business world are likely to have financial implications from this case as the agency will use their it security service. we are of course in favour of improved computer security. but since the protection of business secrets in relations between private companies is not one of our concerns, we abstained.
- cancer is a terrible disease that affects millions of europeans and even more people on the planet. i have always said and i will say again that this disease, in terms of research funding, means of treatment and support for the sick, does not benefit from the efforts of our society that its scale and gravity deserve. screening is part of that, and i support it, but it doesn't solve all the problems. once the disease is detected... it must be treated to cure the sick.
in writing. - the commission proposes to finance research on embryonic stem cells despite the opposition of some member states who prohibit it, and also in defiance of the principle of subsidiarity. research on embryonic stem cells, which automatically leads to the destruction of the embryo, is totally contrary to the principle of human dignity recognised by the charter of fundamental rights (article 2). this research also raises technical problems: we are not yet looking at it for therapeutic purposes. so when it comes to basic research, there is no justification for using new embryos: this is peter liese's compromise. very few of us spoke about the suffering of the sick and the need to find emergency therapies. this is the question that stem cell research is asking. at the present stage of research, only the use of adult stem cells is promising. it is not ethical or technical, but unfortunately it lacks the financial means. this is why the bulk of european funding should be devoted to this type of research, which alone can meet the urgent demands of patients. for all these reasons, i will support the gargani amendments which i co-signed.
- my family thanks you for that remark, mr. fatuzzo.
- this morning's agenda is now complete. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
- mr president, i welcome the debate in this parliament today on the latest summit between the european union and russia. this was in some way a response to mr berlusconi's statements on chechnya at the end of the summit, which justified the policy of russian military intervention in the region. such statements do not reflect the agreed positions of the fifteen and my group strongly condemns these statements. europe has expressed its disagreement with this justification, but can it be considered sufficient? i don't think he is. i regret the very relative importance given by the council and the commission to the chechen issue and the lukewarmness of the condemnations of the kremlin at the summit. daily life in chechnya continues to be a nightmare for the civilian population: insecurity, disappearances, human rights violations by russian military forces continue with impunity. moscow is using the argument of the fight against terrorism to justify everything. this is unacceptable, although we must of course strongly condemn the attacks by extremist chechen groups. the so-called democratic election held on 5 october was, according to the independent ngo observers, a sham. my group disputes the legitimacy of such a consultation, which is only intended to make the international community believe that the regional situation is normalized and that popular sovereignty has been exercised. but it is not. it is urgent that the union finally condemns russia firmly and clearly for its handling of the war in chechnya. the reconstruction of this blood-soaked country can only begin after the withdrawal of russian forces and the overall pacification of the region. only genuine political negotiations can pave the way for a process of democratisation and reconstruction in which europe must play a major role by exerting much stronger pressure on russia. why not in the framework of partnership agreements? another possibility could be to support the plan for the un interim administration in chechnya. such an attitude should not be interpreted as being against russia or the development of the partnership between the european union and russia, but on the contrary as being in the service of the peace and security expected by both peoples.
- mr president, i think that when we talk about russia, we are all obliged to be moderate, or at least i have the impression that everyone feels obliged to be moderate, and this has been the case since the fall of the wall and the collapse of the soviet regime. at that time we were celebrating the democratic development with mr yeltsin, and we obviously did not see the incredible corruption that was developing in this country. today we welcome the progress made with mr putin, and we do not see the masquerade that is being organized around the monopoly on the media. i shall not speak at this stage about arbitrary arrests and chechnya, which i shall come back to at the end of my speech. why is that? because, yes, russia is a huge power on our borders and nobody knows exactly how to take the bull by the horns, especially since everyone wants russia on their side. mr. poettering, i know it's hard to criticize friends when they're making mistakes. you knew how much it hurt me to see my foreign minister constantly standing by mr putin to defend a correct position on iraq. that is to say, for iraq, the chechens were sacrificed. on the other hand, it is obvious that the americans were doing exactly the same thing. if the americans said "yes" to iraq, it means that the chechens were not interested in them either. so on both sides, it's the same thing. i think there is a fundamental problem here. if we believe, on the pretext that we need - and this is true - a strategic link with the russians, that we must behave complacently towards them, well, we are mistaken. and we're wrong because the results will never be what we expect. we say yes to the democratic process in russia, but when extremely important problems arise and the president responsible for europe simply says to mr putin: 'but what you are doing in chechnya is perfect! you arrest people, but it's perfect! what about the media monopoly? it's perfect", you can always produce afterwards a bunch of resolutions, the damage is done. and it is done for a long time, because no one in russia will think to say: "yes, that's right, there is the european parliament. yes, that is right, there is mr verheugen and the commission". it doesn't matter because they know that when problems arise, the need to save them will prevail: "we need you, mr. putin". in short, the parliament's urticaria crisis, the commission's urticaria crisis does not bother them, which implies that the situation in russia is not fundamentally changing. that is why i say to you that if we do not clearly denounce the massacre of an entire people that is being organized in chechnya, mr putin will never listen to us. when mr putin gives a moral, perhaps with good reason, about iraq, he doesn't think a word of it, because it doesn't bother him. he is using iraq as he needs to use everything to establish his power in russia: a totalitarian power. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. - it is true that in the words of the "new impetus" the ambition is shown to be more closely related. we talk about "common space", but no common construction! this is far from the case, as romano prodi speaks of 'political rapprochement and progressive integration into the economic and social structures of the european union'. one may wonder whether the word 'neighbourhood' has not replaced the word 'partnership'. the union's objective is the integration of these countries into the single european market, but without any financial compensation in terms of aid, which the applicant countries had benefited from, even if the conditions were drastic and unfair. the commission's communication as a whole is also marked by a very secure approach to relations. the hope of an eu open to the world is far from being fulfilled. the free movement of goods and capital, but not of persons, is not only inhuman but also totally illusory and cynical. if the eu is to meet the expectations that many people continue to place on it and to oppose the united states to a different world view, everything calls for new ties with our neighbours, especially those in the mediterranean.
the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank mr queiró for his excellent report on the commission communication on defence industry and market issues. in its resolution of april 2002, the european parliament called on the commission to address industry and market issues in the european defence industry. the development of events in recent years, as exemplified by the gradual structuring of european security and defence policy, and the changes in the industry itself have set the stage for a reassessment of the question, which a few years ago was considered premature. the commission is fully aware of the sensitivity of this area and the specific nature of the defence sector. we have therefore taken a cautious approach, stressing the prospects for the development of europe's industrial and technological potential in the long term and indicating that the commission is determined to contribute substantially to the european union's efforts wherever possible. as is well known, we have put forward proposals for concrete action, particularly in relation to research in the field of security and defence and the development of a european defence equipment market. the proposals have been well received by the member states and i am pleased that the commission is now implementing some of them as of march this year. in this context, i would like to point out that an impact assessment study on the simplification of intra-community transfers of defence equipment is under way. as regards the issue of public procurement, a green paper is being prepared to launch the discussion on the appropriate set of rules for a cost-effective procurement of goods and services by the defence procurement agencies of the member states and the future european agency in a fully compatible and integrated manner. joint efforts with the european committee for standardisation (cen) on standardisation are continuing with a view to the development of a european handbook for defence contracts. the principles for economic control of the defence industry and market in the enlarged european union have been developed; and there has been progress on the control of exports of dual-use items in the wider context of the eu strategy and action plan against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. as regards research issues, i would like to inform you that the commission is finalising a communication on a preparatory action on the enhancement of the european industrial potential related to security research for the period 2004-2006. a call for proposals will be published early next year. a group of leading figures has been set up to advise and assist the commission in this task, which is expected to contribute to a substantial european safety research programme from 2007. the report by mr queiró broadly supports the commission's approach to strengthening the european defence industrial and technological base by gradually establishing a european defence equipment market and promoting security research. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the report welcomes the implementation of pilot actions in the field of safety research and development. all these indications encourage the commission's action, and we are encouraged by the favourable opinion of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy on the creation of the european common market for defence equipment and by the explicit support for various commission proposals in this respect. as regards the establishment of a defence agency, following the mandate of the thessaloniki european council, the member states in the council urged the commission to clarify how the community could work with and/or within the future agency in order to maximise synergies in pursuit of common objectives. the commission has responded favourably to this request and today here confirms its willingness and availability to contribute to this task by the means already presented in the communication of last march, which is the subject of this debate. in this spirit, the commission envisages involvement in the development and operation of the agency as a means of contributing to the achievement of its objectives as defined by the european council. in conclusion, i would like to stress the commission's appreciation and expectation of the european parliament's support for mr queiró's report and the close cooperation with the member states in order to move forward in an area full of challenges. the citizens and taxpayers of europe have a right to expect us to move towards greater effectiveness in the defence sector and a strengthened credibility of european security and defence policy.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is no coincidence that on the eve of the vote on the resolution prepared by our distinguished colleague, mr queiró, we can, as he has just reminded us, welcome with him the announcement last monday of the decision of the foreign affairs council to create the european defence agency and to ask a team responsible for setting up this agency to propose the legal, institutional and financial arrangements. during the past year, and in the wake of the shock of the iraq crisis, we have seen a new convergence in the approaches of parliament, the commission and the council to the common foreign and security policy. this suggests the hope that, in this area at least, the progress made in the convention will not be fundamentally called into question by the decisions expected from the intergovernmental conference. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the situation in the community. to this end, commissioner, it is to be hoped, as our rapporteur has asked, that the commission's communication - industrial and market issues, towards a european union defence equipment policy - will provide, as i hope and am sure, the framework for increased cooperation. i think it is important to stress that the opening up of national markets which is thus necessary must be aimed at improving the economy, of course, but also at guaranteeing security of supply at national and european level. i am well aware that this is a difficult need to satisfy, particularly for those states which, like my country, france, have so far ensured that they retain the widest possible independence in this area. one of the agency's priority tasks should be to propose the necessary amendments to the current provisions of the treaties to this end. however, we must not be satisfied with the publicity given to the creation of this famous agency. let us not forget that before it there was occar, the joint organisation for cooperation on arms control, which, to my knowledge, was never able to be very active because it did not have the minimum community budget necessary for its effectiveness. let us be aware, ladies and gentlemen, and especially those in the committee on budgets, that if we do not want to be left to our own devices, we must, without delay, reflect on these questions and amend the 2004 budget to include the sums needed to start the agency's activities. it is also important to equip the high representative with the means to carry out his duties, since, according to the council's proposal, he will be the one to take over the management of the agency. i was pleased to hear, commissioner, that you share our conviction that research should be given priority in the field we are concerned with and that perhaps it is at this level that we could undertake the type of pilot project that you mentioned as a possibility. finally, to give our enlarged europe the place it deserves on the international scene, we must provide it with the means to act. we have to spend more, we have said, but we will certainly have to spend more. it is not easy for a politician to recognise this, especially at a time when budgetary balances are so difficult to achieve. i therefore commend the courage of the rapporteur and all those who supported his report in the committee for writing or approving that the persistent refusal of many member states to increase their defence spending is likely to jeopardise the european union's military capability and the very coherence of its action within nato. i have already said in this house, mr president, commissioner, let us not forget the old french adage popular under the ancien régime: no money, no switzerland.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mr queiró's report and the commission's communication are in line with our previous parliamentary resolutions, adopted since 1984, on european security and defence policy. the commission's communication and this report come at a good time to extend the progress of the esdp already decided, in particular since the european council in cologne in june 1999. since then, new bodies have been set up: the political and security committee (cops), the military committee, the general staff and others, each attached to the high representative for foreign affairs. it was decided to set up a rapid reaction force of 60,000 men. several conferences have been held to assess what military capabilities we have and what we lack. during this whole period, therefore, a great deal has been done, but we have also made a point that has been repeatedly made, namely that our defence industries are in dire need of reform, otherwise we will continue to waste funds unnecessarily. i shall not go into the various analyses and wishes expressed by the commission and our rapporteur. i agree with them entirely, except, mr rapporteur, that you want us to vote on amendment no 1. i have a weakness for paragraph 15 and i shall therefore vote against your wishes, i am sorry. let me emphasize one point because it is important and also because it is topical, as the rapporteur and mr morillon have said before me. this point concerns the creation of the european armaments agency. the european parliament has long expressed its support for such a creation, in line with what has just been said. we shall be expressing this again tomorrow by voting on this report and an excellent amendment tabled on this subject by mr von wogau, the agency. but things have moved quickly, which i welcome, especially as good news from europe is rather rare at the moment. on monday, a joint decision by the defence ministers and the foreign ministers, including those of the new members, gave the go-ahead to the agency, whose principle was agreed at the thessaloniki summit and which is due to start operating in january 2004. that's good news! let us hope that despite the inevitable obstacles and resistance, this agency will be a success. it should, and i hope it will, go beyond the joint organisation for cooperation on arms control (occar), which has disappointed many. this european agency will have broad missions. it will have to deal with military capabilities - armaments and equipment - but also, and i repeat, with research: a sector that is very important, but which has been somewhat sacrificed, not only by the european union but also by its member states. i have listened to you very carefully just now, commissioner. i hope that the commission will continue along the path you have just indicated. the agency has the political will of those who set it up and put it in the hands of the council of ministers. it also has the support of the industrialists who are fully aware of the need to work together at european level and between europeans, and who have already begun to group themselves together. it is supported by the european parliament and the commission. anyway, a lot of good fairies lean on her crib. it will need their help to grow and to have the good life we wish for it and for the whole of european security and defence policy.
- mr president, it is clear that if we want to develop credible cooperation in the field of defence in the future - i am not prejudging its form, its limits or its future legal status - the states concerned will have to support each other in the field of military equipment. however, the commission's communication of 11 march 2003 on this subject is disappointing for three main reasons. firstly, it deals with the question of the arms industries mainly from the point of view of the market and competition, because obviously this is where it has some competence. but this is a very narrow view, because in this area security concerns are and must remain predominant. the lower cost of acquiring equipment is an important consideration, certainly, especially in times of budget deficits, but it is by no means the only one. the states, in the name of their security, must remain the sole masters of their own judgments. this has always been recognized in article 296 of the treaty on the european community, which is renewed as it stands, i remind you, by article 342 of part three of the draft european constitution. secondly, the commission's communication tends to overcommunitarize, with codecision, including the creation of a community framework for defence equipment which would seem to include the armaments agency. such a communitarianisation is not at all in the interests of defence cooperation, which needs intergovernmental relations and variable geometries, under the control of national parliaments, so that member states are not discouraged from getting involved. i welcome the fact that this armaments agency, which is finally being set up on the basis of article 17 of the treaty on european union, is intergovernmental in nature. thirdly, i found in paragraph 6 of mr queiró's report - and i warmly welcome it - a key concept which is absent from the commission's communication, as indeed from the draft european constitution, namely the concept of community preference. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to the question of the future of the european union. of course, this european preference must remain flexible, because high-tech military equipment is not agricultural products and, as i have already said, the states must remain in control of their security. however, even if a strict legal commitment cannot be made, there should at least be a declaration of intent somewhere. i thank mr queiró again for making this clear.
- thank you, mr howitt. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0390/2003) by mr swoboda, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the proposal for a council regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 1080/2000 of 22 may 2000 on support for the united nations interim mission for kosovo (unmik) and the office of the high representative in bosnia and herzegovina (com (2003) 389 - c5-0325/2003 - 2003/0142 (cns)).
commission. madam president, the european union has assumed a leading role within the stability pact for south eastern europe. this pact has proved a valuable framework that complements european union policy towards the region as it endeavours to support the countries in that region in their efforts to foster peace, democracy, respect for human rights and economic prosperity, and also to achieve stability in the region as a whole. the proposal being examined by parliament today, under which the stability pact would be included in the scope of council regulation (ec) no 1080/2000, will provide the pact with a sound and solid basis on which to fulfil the crucial mandate given by the international community. the stability pact is specifically designed to further foster regional cooperation, as was underlined by the thessaloniki agenda endorsed on 20 june 2003 by the european council. it will thereby complement the stabilisation and association process engaged with the western balkans. the commission therefore welcomes the positive opinion on the proposal and hopes that parliament will share the objective of having this new financial framework fully applicable as of 1 january 2004. the commission regards amendment 1 to article 1(2) as superfluous, since the principle of cost-sharing by member states is implicitly contained in article 2(2) of the regulation, and given that budget line 19 07 04 is an integral part of the budgetary discussion. with reference to amendment 2 to article 1a, as well as amendments 4 and 6, the commission can support the proposal that the appointment of the special coordinator of the stability pact be renewed on an annual basis. the commission also agrees with the wider objective of closely associating parliament in following the work of the stability pact. nevertheless, and bearing in mind the need to keep the appointment procedure as straightforward as possible, the commission cannot accept parliament's proposal, in amendment 2 to article 1a, to include formal consultation of the relevant european parliament committee. neither can it accept the insertion, in the form of a new article 1b proposed by amendments 3, 5 and 7, of a hearing before the committee. however, the commission agrees with amendments 4 and 6, with regard to ensuring that parliament is informed of the appointment proposal. the commission is happy, although it is not possible to include it in the new regulation, to make the commitment before parliament to arrange for an association with parliament in practice. in particular, the commission will, well in advance of the appointment decision, inform parliament, via the chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, of its appointment proposal. the appointed special coordinator will appear before the committee on foreign affairs as necessary, and at least twice at year, to report on its activities. the commission would be grateful if parliament could adopt a positive opinion during the present part-session, since it is eager to embark on the implementation stage immediately after the new regulation enters into force, in order to provide the special coordinator of the stability pact with the timely support that will allow him to fulfil his mandate in 2004. on behalf of the commission i wish to express special thanks to the rapporteur, mr swoboda, for the quality of his preparatory work and the very good relations he has maintained with the commission.
- thank you, mrs stenzel. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0398/2003) by mr coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and human rights, on the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the second generation schengen information system (sis ii) [2003/2180 (ini) ].
- madam president, we have two reasons for rejecting this recommendation on the second generation schengen information system. we refuse to approve the electronic personal data filing system, which the author intends to perfect because it is a tool of police repression. and we reject even more the politics that this tool is intended to serve. the states for whom the fight against terrorism is a universal justification want this file to receive additional data and to be combined with the system that manages visas. consultation would be extended to judicial authorities that do not yet have access to it. this repressive tool is primarily designed to prevent migrant workers from coming to the european union, thereby threatening the freedom of all. spending millions of euros on sophisticated surveillance equipment and a system for sharing information on those who cross a border that was open to them and are now being slapped on the face is outrageous. this is how dramatic situations are created and perpetuated, on which unscrupulous smugglers thrive. we are opposed to the policy of a 'fortress europe' surrounded by barbed wire, whether electronic or simply legal. it is a backward, reactionary and inhumane policy. the fate of the peoples of the south of the european union has been linked since time immemorial to that of the peoples on the other side of the mediterranean, from morocco to egypt. the populations of the newly acceded countries of eastern europe are closely linked to the populations of the countries of the former soviet union. restricting freedom of movement between the european union and the surrounding countries sometimes means cutting people's flesh. we reject it and we will vote against it.
the commission. madam president, i have the greatest respect for critical views on the schengen information system. i will be honest, i do not think that the best strategy is to demonize the schengen information system, but everyone is responsible for his political positions. what i am saying to you clearly is that the schengen information system is essentially a system for managing the external border of the european union and that this is a fundamental condition for safeguarding freedom of movement within the european area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal borders are not crossed. the fact is that this is not just a question of entering and leaving the territory of the european union, it is also a question of ensuring security within the territory of the european union. this is a different political choice from jaez, which i would like to reiterate here. i think the fundamental question is what the values of the schengen information system are. i have a christmas present for mr marco cappato, but it is not this one, because this would be a smaller one, it is another, we are waiting for natale. but, as to the question he asked, i would like to say two things: firstly, there is no provision for any form of transfer of schengen information system data to third countries. access to the schengen database is reserved for the member states of the european union. as regards the data to be integrated into the system, i think i gave the answer in my speech when i said that the debate on the specific data to be integrated into the system has not yet been concluded. we have made a feasibility study which we have sent to the european parliament, identifying the requests that have been made to us by the member states. the specific identification of these data is not yet complete and the commission is currently preparing a communication to be published by the end of this year, in which we will assess the state of the current debate. i understand the doubts and fears. there is one thing, however, that i would like to say: there is a big difference between the fact that i, as commissioner, am here to talk to you about the schengen ii information system and the fact that, in relation to the first system, there was no commissioner here to be responsible for what was being done. i am here today to say that the commission is going to present a proposal for harmonization on the control and protection of personal data in the third pillar and that there must be democratic control and judicial control of the operation of the system. this is what makes the schengen information system i different, and this difference was made possible precisely because the system was integrated into the whole of the community acquis with the support of this parliament, which i hope will continue to count on by voting in favour of mr carlos coelho's report.
- thank you, chief. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the agenda calls for the commission's statement on the eu-canada summit to be held in ottawa on 17 december 2003.
- thank you, mr watson. - thank you very much. the debate is closed. the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). (the sitting was closed at 11.30 p.m.)
- mr president, as you know, there are many opinion polls which show how far europe is from its citizens and how much more needs to be done to bring it closer to them. community action to promote european citizenship exists, but it is of course still insufficient. the decision to set up a grant programme to promote active european citizenship for a period of five years is a good thing. promoting the idea of european citizenship so that citizens can take ownership of europe and empower themselves to achieve this are of course the objectives of this proposal. the democratic legitimacy and transparency of the union should be strengthened. but to do this we must also simplify all the procedures that will enable as many associations as possible to benefit from this tool. in addition, we see a hierarchy between the organisations which, i regret, is not always justified. objective criteria should be defined by the european commission to finance the operation and activities of the various ngos, especially those that intervene directly on the ground to bring our values of solidarity to life. let us not forget that it is thanks to them that social cohesion is maintained in our european suburbs, where exclusion and discrimination are rampant. how can we make young people believe that europe is a reality and give them confidence if this europe does not fight discrimination in practice? in practice, it is said that the commission has special relations with certain associations. if that claim were true, this situation would not be acceptable. moreover, if the emphasis is on the social dimension, and we thank the rapporteur for that, we cannot spare the political dimension, which is essential to reduce the current democratic deficit. so, what kind of citizenship are we talking about? the report states that citizenship of the union complements and extends national citizenship by recognising common rights. it is the result of the need felt by the members of this community to share common democratic values in the process of building the union. can we continue to talk about a european construction which excludes 15 to 18 million residents of europe who are not community nationals? by their active participation in the construction of europe, they are citizens of europe on an equal footing with others, and their associations and ngos are also active structures that help to promote europe. it is clear that we want a europe of citizens, a europe which is truly democratic and based on solidarity, and to achieve this we must innovate and improve european citizenship. in the era of free movement of capital, goods and people, it goes without saying that people must be able to assume their responsibilities and enjoy their rights, regardless of the country in which they have chosen to reside within the european area. europe cannot accept a hierarchy of citizens which would give some a higher degree of equality than others. all those who share the same european space must be able to enjoy equal rights in the country where they live every day. to do this, we must base european citizenship on residence and no longer on citizenship. all too often in europe nationality and citizenship are inseparable. in this respect, the acceding countries can provide us with an interesting experience, since for them the concept of citizenship is different from that of nationality. we want our old europe to be inspired by this new breath to give europe a new citizenship based on residence.
- (pt) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have begun to feel the consolidation of european citizenship through a series of events such as the introduction of the euro or the abolition of the internal frontiers of the community. in such situations, it is clear that the existence of this european citizenship is complementary to national citizenship. however, there are areas where consolidation is less visible. the structures created by the community to promote this european citizenship receive community funds and may even have achieved something, but they do not reach the majority of citizens. the lack of recognition of the work done by the various institutions is profound. however, the lack of transparency, the bureaucracy and the obvious gap between european citizens and the institutions that are supposed to represent them and the organisations created to serve their interests mean that citizens are not really aware of what is happening. we were surprised recently to find that european citizens are completely unaware of the work of the convention, despite the considerable resources invested in informing them. two years ago, i myself wrote a report on the euro, a major community service essential to mobility and the promotion of crossborder work, and i realised that citizens were generally unaware of this. two years on and although this area was strategically identified in the resolution we voted on, which stressed the need for a major awareness-raising campaign, the situation remains essentially unchanged, due to the failings of the commission and the lack of interest shown by the member states. this is why action is essential. on the one hand, greater transparency must be required of organisations receiving community grants. i share ms rühle's view that the european union's investments in the fields of information for citizens and promotion of citizenship should be publicised, in particular on the websites of the organisations receiving these funds. this is a way of gradually erasing the image of a europe of eurocrats only and far from the citizens, by letting them know that europe acts directly and on a daily basis for each of us and also by offering the opportunity for citizens to participate genuinely in social and political matters. the community institutions are not entirely blameless and can improve their performance by simplifying the application procedures for community funds for civic promotion, facilitating access to documents through user-friendly systems, strengthening the intermediary structures between the institutions and citizens, and by really listening to and opening up to them. moreover, the time has come for us to encourage citizens to participate in the construction of the european union. the intergovernmental conference is preparing a new treaty with constitutional aspirations which will have a significant impact on the future of european citizens. i therefore issue a universal challenge: let us promote genuine european citizenship now and demand that the governments of all the member states hold referendums on this new treaty, as many of them have already decided to do. consultation is required in all the member states on the future treaty. in this way we can all contribute to the real exercise of active european citizenship. it is foolish to tell our fellow citizens that we are also european citizens and then spend our time telling them to shut up. it is not right, having proclaimed european citizenship in maastricht, to then ensure that nothing is said about it by imposing a strict vow of silence on citizens. we cannot accept the idea that european citizenship is all right as long as citizens do not commit the sin of asking for the floor. let us therefore commit ourselves to active european citizenship.
- mr president, the commission has presented a welcome initiative to parliament for a codecision procedure, an initiative which should lead to a decision establishing a community action programme for the promotion of organisations active at european level in the field of equality between women and men. having chaired for ten years such an organisation, namely the european centre of the international council of women, which has affiliates in the european union, the new member states, bulgaria, romania, turkey, the efta countries and even beyond, i am better able to appreciate the value of this programme for the many women's organisations active at european level in this field, and who will therefore be eligible for a grant under a credit, the proposed amount of which is eur 2.222 million. our committee on budgets, on the other hand, proposed €5.5 million from 2004 to 2008. it is not huge, but women's organisations, whether national or european, are used to living and working with small budgets. that is why i welcome this initiative, particularly because it finally puts an end to the monopoly on operating subsidies enjoyed by the european women's lobby since its inception. as one of the women who conceived and created the lobby, as president of the european organisation i have just mentioned, cecif, and as president of a national organisation which is also a member of the lobby, i certainly cannot be accused of undermining the lobby, whose work i appreciate. the commission has understood that in this field, as in all others, monopolies are bad. but unfortunately, it has not been able to complete its reasoning, because the text proposed to us still reserves privileges to the lobby in this new framework. i do not want to undermine the operating grant of the lobby, which is acquired, but other organisations active at european level in the fight against all discrimination, in particular those based on sex, must be able to benefit from financial support under the abovementioned credit, in the form of operating grants to guarantee the continuity of their actions. our rapporteur had intelligently amended the european commission's proposal for a decision. unfortunately, within the committee on women's rights, left-wing sectarianism has once again prevailed over equal treatment and opportunities for all the women's organisations concerned. that's too bad! and because the draft report was totally distorted, mrs kratsa and other members of my group voted against it. if our efforts to restore the balance between the lobby and the other women's organisations fail, i will vote against it again, while preparing the ground for the second reading.
- (sv) mr president, commissioner, i would first like to thank the rapporteurs for their constructive work. i will start with the kratsa-tsagaropoulou report. as mrs dybkjær said, it is obviously symptomatic that the gender equality programme is the whole month, but we are more or less used to it, mr kinnock. equality between men and women begins at home. the liberal challenge of gender equality is to ensure that women have more power over their own lives. even i, a liberal, can say that it is about identifying the structures that create obstacles by preventing women from having the same opportunities as men. i am convinced that you are particularly qualified in this field, mr kinnock. equality between men and women has been one of the union's fundamental principles since the treaty of rome. this principle was reinforced in the treaty of amsterdam and has become increasingly important. it is therefore obvious that we particularly welcome this action programme and the legal basis which give women's organisations the financial possibilities needed to do better work. i think it is also important to say that this house should now give priority to the activities of the european women's lobby, created by mrs lulling, which today represents 15 member states and has more than 3 000 members. mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou spoke here of other organisations which are not part of the european women's lobby, but are also included in the action programme. i agree with ms kratsa-tsagaropoulou that diversity is important and that it is essential to have organisations at all levels, but i can also assure you that the action programme is aimed at supporting both the european women's lobby and other organisations. i will tell mr kinnock that it is important that the european union also ensures that organisations active in the field of gender equality are all treated equally and receive financial support for a longer period than the two years you propose. a two-year aid programme does not give organisations any financial security. another reason for supporting the extension of the action programme until 2008 is that we must be able to ensure that organisations in our new member states also have the opportunity to apply for assistance under this programme. i think it is important to add and emphasise that this would bring about greater security in the long term. mr sacrédeus, who has unfortunately left the chamber, has done a remarkable job on the programme covered in his report. this programme is to help us and aims to make it possible for citizens from different countries, regions and parts of the world to get to know each other better by cooperating. as a liberal, i support this wholeheartedly. i would like to express three wishes, however, which are based on experience and which i think we should take into account. the management and application of aid must be simple, the system must not be bureaucratic and it must be possible to obtain the money quickly. we know that many people are reluctant to apply for grants from the union and within the financial framework we have because there is a lot of paperwork and sometimes it is too late when the funds are finally paid. the european union, through its financial programmes which are partly aimed at making us more european, must not be associated with the notions of red tape, bureaucracy and slowness. and that is precisely how the citizens feel. that cannot happen and i hope, mr kinnock, that in your continuing work you will ensure that aid is increased and that access to these action programmes and funds is improved so that they are useful.
- mr president, i would like to support the point raised by mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou, the rapporteur, and i welcome the initiative proposed by the commission to provide a basic instrument for financing and promoting organisations active in the field of equality between women and men at european level. as mentioned earlier, many organisations are eligible for this funding. we cannot allow a europe in which some are more equal than others. we must vote in favour of equal treatment for women and men, but also for the european women's lobby - lef - and other women's associations. equal treatment cannot be achieved when one organisation can receive funding without having to make a proposal to the commission, while the other organisations have to compete with many other worthy proposals. equal treatment cannot be achieved when there are such large differences in the proportion of funding received by one of these organisations compared to that granted to other women's organisations. we know that a large part of the lef budget is allocated to coordination and research, but the lef does not offer financial support to its member associations. in fact, these organisations have to pay to join the lef and no permanent financial support is offered to them. it is discrimination against very prominent organisations that need support at european level to make their voices heard, and it undermines the perception of the good quality of their work. i would like to point out that when i was newly elected in 1999, i had no idea what the lef was. i was contacted by women's organisations in germany and spain, who asked me to advocate on their behalf for equal funding. they did not receive funding from the european union and could not receive it unless they were members of the lef, which declared itself to be the only voice of women in all of europe. i do not wish to undermine the work of the lef - its objective is honourable and it is entitled to receive funding - but i simply propose to make funding available to other women's organisations who feel that the lef does not speak for them. many parties make up this house and citizens sometimes feel that their voices might be heard better on one side of the house than on the other. that is the situation we find ourselves in. no specific organisations should be mentioned in this proposal. they should be mentioned in the annex and there should be no funding for specific actions which can be funded by other programmes. this is in line with the council's position.
in writing. - we have already voted twice on the draft directive aimed at liberalizing the provision of port services in union ports (cargo handling, passenger services, steering, handling, towing). there are huge interests at stake: economic and financial interests, but above all social and human interests. since our first vote on this matter three years ago, almost every day, the french socialists have been fighting to safeguard the public service nature of port services. after several battles for amendments, we had achieved significant results, including the exclusion of piloting and management services from the scope of the directive. we were unable to achieve the same success in the area of cargo handling (a service provided by dockers), and we had already opposed a text at second reading (on 11 march 2003) which was part of a policy of full liberalisation of all european transport modes. today's text, on which we are called upon to give our opinion, as it emerges from the conciliation between parliament and the commission, marks a very clear retreat in all the points on which we have been fighting. as it stands, this text is unacceptable. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - (pt) we welcome the rejection of the directive on port services. this result is the culmination of an intense struggle by the trade unions in the sector - which have had our support and that of our political group - as evidenced by the large demonstrations in front of the european parliament in march 2003 and in barcelona and rotterdam last september, as well as a petition filed this week and accompanied by more than 16 000 signatures of workers, not to mention strikes, demonstrations and other actions. the entire trade union movement in the sector opposed this directive and the agreement, now rejected, reached at a conciliation meeting between the council and the european parliament. this directive was an additional element of the overall package included in the 'lisbon strategy', which aims to accelerate the process of liberalisation and market opening in various sectors, from postal services to port services. this is not only a violent attack on the public service, but it is also a challenge to the very concept of public service. the agreement rejected today would have promoted, through the principle of self-help, social dumping and the gradual erosion of dockers' wage and working conditions. it did not recognise the public nature of port services and left them to the law of the market and the primacy of competition. it did not even retain the system of prior authorisation for service providers.
in writing. - the european commission is continuing its construction of a global wild trade area where workers in the southern states, whose only competitive advantage is their poverty, are used against workers in the northern hemisphere. this regression strategy, which has already affected women and men in our textile, leather, steel, coal and electronics industries, not to mention our rural areas, is now being applied in the service sector. again in the name of global ultra-liberalism. that is why brussels is attacking port services, handling, pilots and dockers. without concern for security and by dismantling the social gains of a century of struggle, the ideologues of euro-federalism and the taliban of free trade would like to take on board immigrant labour from asia and the third world on their merchant ships, often under a flag of convenience, to carry out in the ports, from sète to bordeaux or from marseille to dunkirk, le havre or antwerp, all the work and services instead of national workers. so, for me, the member for sète, and for the jean-marie le pen movement, it is the policy of slavery and global free trade that is the "misery of the nations".
in writing. - (pt) i welcome the results of the conciliation procedure and have expressed my vote in writing. throughout this complex process, the text has evolved considerably, from a very negative text in decisive aspects to a text providing balanced solutions, leading to clearer and more transparent rules in access to the market for port services - for those who wish to do so, of course. the use of the controversial 'self-help' system would have been limited to the ship's crew alone, in association with the competent port operator. in the case of piloting, member states were left with sufficient leeway to subject the compulsory authorisation to strict standards and qualifications. finally, the broad general framework of the principle of subsidiarity would have been respected. each port or port facility would have been obliged to provide information on its own financial relations, thus avoiding distortions of competition. i therefore consider that this result was positive - i am speaking of course of the result that could have been obtained in view of the composition of the interests involved and the controversy raised by this question. i regret that a small majority rejected the conciliation. i fear that we will return to the worst of the stages of this procedure and thereby delay port development for many years to come. i am also surprised that at the time of the final vote more than a dozen voting machines had mysteriously broken down, all the members having voted in favour, and that, despite the immediate demands, the president had not resumed the vote.
in writing. - by a majority of 229 votes to 209 against, we rejected the jarzembowski report, which created the risk of disasters such as erika, tricolor and prestige, which were once confined to the coast, occurring in european ports. i congratulate myself. the directive proposed nothing more or less than the generalization of pleasure ports and social dumping to the detriment of safety, workers and the environment. it allowed the employment of inexperienced, untrained and precarious labour with self-help. it called into question the status of dock workers, especially dockers. the same was true for other professions such as pilots, tugboat operators and boatmen, putting the quality and independence of the service at risk. the dockers had warned us of the dangers of this directive in successive eurogroup meetings. within a week, a european petition gathered over 20 000 signatures against liberalisation, reflecting the concern of all the players in the sector. it is up to us politicians to continue to listen to these professionals and to develop public port services at european level, the only ones capable of guaranteeing safety, regularity, continuity, quality, social achievements and respect for the environment. let us hope that this defeat for the liberals will be a definitive one, not just a respite.
in writing. - yes to liberalization, but on good terms. i am in favour of opening up port services to competition, but in satisfactory safety conditions. i have chosen to abstain on the compromise resulting from the conciliation because the outcome of the institutional negotiations does not correspond to the work carried out over two years. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers. on the question of self-help, regulations should have been adopted ensuring that it is practised by qualified persons for each of the services provided; this was not provided for in the current draft. i am in favour of gradual opening up to competition and i am convinced of the positive economic consequences, but all this is being prepared. as a citizen of a maritime city, i consider that the letter of the text did not fit the realities of the terrain. this radical change in port life must be prepared in a different way, ideally with each port service being subject to specific regulation and not being covered, as proposed in a "four-for-all" package. i hope that the commission's future proposals will be in this direction.
- (el) mr president, i would like to point out that the majority of my political group abstained or voted against the report, because the final result is not what was expected, namely the continuation of efforts towards a community action programme for the promotion of organisations active at european level in the field of equality between women and men. the proposal from the plenary is not what we want. we want equal distribution and equal rights among women's organizations. we recognise that the role and work of the european women's lobby must be preserved, but at the same time other organisations must be able to benefit from a viable programme of action. this is not what is stated in parliament's proposal. on the contrary, it argues that there must be discriminatory treatment between organisations and that those not belonging to the european women's lobby should be in a 'second category'. that is not what we are proposing, and that is why we have not accepted the final result. we see this programme as an opportunity to show that we believe in the pluralism and diversity of the aims and concerns of women's organisations and to enable them to express their richness on an equal and non-discriminatory basis. we believe that this is a basic foundation of our democracy and our group will continue to work towards this.
in writing. - the conservative and moderate meps believe that the financial perspective should be decided by the member states unanimously and that the european parliament should not be involved in this process. however, once the financial perspective is set, we believe that the european parliament and the council should have an equal say in deciding how this money should be spent.
in writing. - (pt) the resolution contains some points which i approve of, including the objective of establishing 'true and fair cooperation' in the mediterranean, 'support for palestinian and israeli forces working for a just and equitable solution to the conflict', opposition to the death penalty and the imposition of a moratorium or the eu's active engagement 'for the solution of the conflict in western sahara'. i must, however, point out that, among other things: - the resolution advocates a policy of economic opening up and internal liberalisation in third countries and calls for the extension of the south-south cooperation process as the only way to achieve a genuine free trade area, which is the real dogma of neoliberal capitalism; - it defends the current repressive eu policy on immigration, when it provides as a priority measure to 'promote efforts in the field of readmission in countries of origin and transit' and rejects the amendments tabled by my group condemning the recent creation of 'european charters' for the expulsion of foreigners. it should be recalled that such measures are prohibited by the european convention on human rights; it refrains from criticising the policy of occupation of palestine and repression of the palestinian people implemented by the government of israel. that is why i am voting against.
in writing. - (pt) russia is undoubtedly a very important country from a strategic point of view, not only in the context of the development of democratic values but also in that of the completion of the common european economic area. however, the fact that we regard russia as a partner, or even an ally, should not prevent us from genuinely addressing the problems that may arise there. without wanting to call into question russia's territorial integrity or sovereignty for a single moment, it is clear that we simply cannot turn a blind eye to certain issues. our concern about the current crisis in chechnya, with the serious violations of human rights that are continually reported to us, leads us to keep this issue as a special item on the european agenda and to ask the russian authorities to resume negotiations with all parties in order to reach a political solution to the conflict. although this topic was excluded from the conclusions of the last eu-russia summit, its inclusion in the european parliament's motion for a resolution led me to vote in favour, especially since the paragraph criticizing the italian presidency, which could have led me to vote otherwise in the final vote, was voted on separately, which allowed me to express my opposition to it.
in writing. - (nl) in the western balkans, in the territory of the former yugoslavia, there are still many outstanding problems in the relations between the peoples living there. foreign interference in wars has contributed to this. the use of military force without persuasion is not the way to a democratic future. foreign troops are still stationed in bosnia and herzegovina, kosovo and the fry. the administrative status of the serb republic in northern bosnia, croat-inhabited areas in southwestern bosnia, kosovo and the albanian-speaking northwestern part of macedonia is still being postponed. lasting solutions with real support from the people must be found - and quickly. the integration into the eu of regions in the balkans whose administrative future remains in question could tip the eu as a whole into civil wars and the repression that follows. although i do not share the approach of the rapporteur, mr lagendijk, on military issues, i believe that the strength of his report lies in the following points: it opposes the us attempts to undermine the international criminal court, advocates equal rights for the roma and condemns the humiliating provisions of the visa regime. i also support his call for a settlement of kosovo's permanent status as a matter of urgency on the basis of a very high degree of autonomy or independence. unlike those in my group who abstained because of kosovo, i support this report.
- this concludes voting time. (the sitting was suspended at 1.15 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
- mr president, commissioner, i shall not stress the importance of the relays and the info points. i think that the commission, parliament, we all agree. i shall now return to a slightly more budgetary aspect. because the other aspect is the financial regulation, the new financial regulation. and on that, again, i would say we are all in agreement. we worked together, parliament voted for it, it is accepted. it has to be implemented. and we all agree to respect the procedures of this financial regulation, amongst others, the procedures which allow for real transparency in the implementation of the budget. in addition, if we understand correctly, all the appropriate means have been given to the commission for this implementation. i believe, mr kinnock, that this is something essential for this case, but also for the future. but it is also necessary, for the purposes of implementing a budget, that the money arrive on time. in the industry, we talk about "just in time". and that's the problem. the fact is that today we find ourselves in a situation where the commission has not anticipated enough and where, instead of coming to us and explaining that there may have been a malfunction or new difficulties, it has waited for us to be alerted by the citizens, by the relays, and therefore very worried. not only has the commission been slow to warn us, but more importantly, mr kinnock, there has been some concealment. indeed, when we are told that several structures have agreed not to have the money, i say no! several structures agreed to have material resources at their disposal, but never said they did not need the money. this is a way of proceeding which i find a little unpleasant compared with the habits of sincerity which we should adopt in the course of our joint work. today we have to find a solution for 2004, and i think we will find it on monday. i hope so, at any rate, so that it can be sustained in 2005. but what we need now is the commission's assurance that it will be able to implement, without fail and in time for the info-points to function, the solution which i am sure we will find. this is essential, as we have said, because europe can no longer tolerate any democratic breakdown. europe can continue to turn administratively, but without the citizens, it will not do so for long and the info-points are one of the essential relays for us to finally have a europe of the citizens.
mr president, the conflict between the sri lankan government and the tamil tigers has lasted for 30 years and has claimed tens of thousands of lives. following the suspension of negotiations in april, the resumption of dialogue at the end of october with prime minister ranil wickremesinghe was a major step towards peace. significant institutional progress had been made in resolving the conflict. but it was a huge step backwards that the legal coup by president chandrika kumaratunga brought, interrupting the negotiations. the introduction of the state of emergency, the concentration of the most important state posts - the ministers of the interior, defence and media - in the hands of the president, the intervention of the army, the suspension of parliamentary activities: all these facts testify to the worsening of the situation. it can quickly worsen, leading to renewed war and new elections with uncertain results. the accusations of the presidency against the government and the questioning of the ceasefire are very worrying. we support the prime minister's efforts to bring about dialogue. the presidency must resume contact with the latter as soon as possible in order to find a constitutional solution. at the same time, cooperation must be extended to all political leaders and interest groups. in any event, the immediate end of the state of emergency is the necessary condition for the immediate resumption of the peace process. in this context, we strongly support the norwegian government in its role as mediator and hope that it will resume its efforts as soon as possible. the situation is particularly worrying in terms of the protection of human rights. the exceptional regime must not lead to an increase in violations of fundamental freedoms. we are particularly concerned about the risk of increased police and military intervention, and especially about the risk of torture or inhuman treatment. we ask, finally, that the state of emergency not slow down the distribution of aid allocated to the may donors' conference. it is because we are aware that the peace process cannot progress until internal relations are calmed that we call for the end of the state of emergency as soon as possible.
- mr president, in the province of aceh the conflict has lasted for 27 years and has already claimed thousands of lives. the situation has deteriorated further since the fragile agreement to cease hostilities broke down last may, the indonesian government declared a state of emergency and closed the province. the application of martial law led to a first resolution of our parliament in june. we denounce the lack of freedom of the people and the press. we had expressed our concern at the increase in violence, the daily killings and the increase in arrests and disappearances. this sentence was not enough as martial law has just been extended for six months. we consider this decision unacceptable. but our main concern is the closure of the region and the inability to reach the population, especially the victims of the conflict, because when there is an emergency, it is the military who manage the region and channel humanitarian aid. we call on the indonesian government to respect international military law and to allow access for humanitarian organisations so that they can provide assistance to refugees, displaced persons and prisoners. we are also concerned about the radicalisation of the conflict and the marginalisation of civil society activists, whereas moderate critical voices are needed to move towards peace and reconstruction. in the hope of restoring dialogue, i organized an exchange of views on the critical situation in aceh and papua on behalf of the human rights group of the committee on development and cooperation at the beginning of october. unfortunately, the indonesian government's lack of response to the separatist movements and civil society representatives has prevented us from moving forward on the path of a peaceful resolution of the conflict. unfortunately, we must note that the fall of the suharto dictatorship and the return of democracy in indonesia have not been accompanied by a significant improvement in human rights. the military, in fact, remains in power. civil liberties, trade union rights and freedom of expression continue to be violated. the east timor tragedy seems to have served as an example to the government in the face of the autonomist demands that are emerging in borneo, the maluku islands, atjeh and papua. the rise of fundamentalism and the increase in terrorist attacks that make headlines in the international press are, of course, extremely worrying. but it is in the name of maintaining national unity and fighting terrorism that, far from the media, freedoms continue to be trampled on daily and that a ferocious repression is taking place in atjeh, but also in papua. while we do not support the armed rebellion, we call on the indonesian government to engage in dialogue with the combatants in order to build peace, and we call on the european union to promote the process of reconciliation.
- mr president, i think it is fair to say that the meeting of the union's foreign ministers in naples last weekend was very productive. i say this because the governments of the european union are now discussing what i would describe as the substantive issues, which are concerned with issues of concern about the possible provisions of the new treaty on european union. the italian government should be commended for speeding up the pace of these negotiations, and this recent meeting in naples was timely. eu leaders will meet next week, on 12 december 2003, to see if they can agree on the final agreement that will determine the future of the european union. in view of the spirit of cooperation and determination which prevails at the moment, i believe that an agreement may be reached at the forthcoming meeting of the heads of state or government of the union. this does not mean that there are no problems or points of contention. i have always felt that it was important to ensure equal representation in the future composition of the european commission. similarly, there are various concerns from the governments of different member states within the union. it is clear that the decision-making process in parliament and the council should be guided by codecision and qualified majority voting procedures. i think that european citizens want to know the exact responsibilities of the new political portfolios being created within the european union. they want to know precisely the role of a possible european foreign minister or a possible president of the european council. it is important to clarify these issues and avoid duplication. this would make it more unclear what action the european union should take at this time. in addition, there is some concern in europe about some sensitive issues at national level. i am firmly convinced that taxation matters should remain the responsibility of the individual national governments. i do not think that the european union should be given the power to raise taxes by a qualified majority vote. i also consider that the said qualified majority voting procedure should not apply to decisions concerning the functioning of the legal systems within the european union. this would be a bad move, given the fact that different legal and criminal systems coexist in europe. i am confident that over the next 10 days we will see a further intensification of the dialogue between all the parties involved in order to reach agreement on a new treaty on european union. the common sense that will enable an agreement to be reached at the next european council is clearly present. while the italian government's timetable is certainly ambitious, it can be met under the right circumstances. i wish him every success in that regard.
in writing. - (pt) the way in which the igc is being conducted is increasingly worrying, as it shows a clear tendency to maintain essential aspects approved by the convention, but which we do not approve of. these include the protection and deepening of the socio-economic model of neoliberal capitalism, the extension of the militarisation of the european union and the institutional consolidation of the union as a political and military bloc, as well as the promotion of the institutional federalist approach. this trend is also reflected in the compromise reached between france, germany and the united kingdom, under the auspices of the united states, on the militarisation of the european union and the consolidation of its institutional foundations, more or less as an autonomous pillar of nato. although some differences remain on institutional issues, compromises have been reached on the idea of a cabinet, as blackmail on eu funds increasingly forces small and medium-sized countries to join the submission. only spain and poland are still fighting. they seek to have the same weight in the decision-making process as the other 'big countries'. the 'primacy' of the 'european constitution' and community law over each country is also reiterated, which is equally unacceptable. it is up to the eu member states and the progressive forces within them to fight this project, which has been designed to benefit europe's economic and financial groups and the ambitions of the elite in each country who serve these interests without any qualms.
- mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, the stability pact is dead. it is regrettable that it was shot down by the european council over the particular difficulties of two large countries, thus undermining the credibility of institutions based on a system of unanimously accepted rules. however, in form this pact has always been an intergovernmental agreement and not subject to the control of our parliament, the sole representative of the sovereignty of the peoples of europe. what the intergovernmental has done, mr karas, the intergovernmental has undone. the greens, federalists, will not mourn the death of this pact, especially since, in substance, we had already criticised a pact at the amsterdam summit which president prodi himself yesterday described as stupid. and stupid he was, and doubly so. in addition, it aggravates recessions by penalizing countries which seek to support effective demand in the union's internal market, particularly in the large countries which have a special responsibility in this respect. on the contrary, countries should be punished if they run deficits in a period of expansion. structurally, a genuine stability pact should protect future investments and in particular the huge investments needed to meet the kyoto criteria. today is no time to procrastinate. a new, smart, compact must be adopted. and only such a pact will deserve to be included in the third part of the constitution. only an intelligent constitution will merit the approval and respect of the citizens of europe. this pact must be counter-cyclical and, at the same time, it must not hamper countries in difficulty but, on the contrary, punish those countries which abuse their facilities and, in this way, by a kind of climate gold rule, protect future investments from the cyclical situation.
- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i listened attentively to the speeches of mr poettering and mr baron crespo, two members whom i greatly respect, and i noticed how we too often approach this question from the perspective of our own country and our own political party. it is no coincidence that the commission's position is the same as that of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and european democrats. i think we should instead try to be imaginative in tackling this sensitive and complex issue. europe has its rules - and the pact is one of them - but at the moment we don't need any more rules. i am convinced that europe must be inventive, courageous and dynamic and i do not think that these questions can be resolved if we do not understand that in this house the italian presidency and mr tremonti must not be supported for what they have said, but rather that a presidency must be supported for what it does, for its consideration of the serious issues affecting important countries in this community. in addition, for the third year in a row, we - and i am the rapporteur on european public finances - have had to note that the european economy is stagnating. i also understood from the speeches of other members that there were certain problems in european politics, and we also discussed this with commissioner solbes yesterday in committee. so why not make an effort to finally move from stability to growth? i think this effort should be made by people who, instead of being the guardians of the rules, want to be politicians - this is what plato meant when he spoke of politics and its supremacy. from this point of view, i think we are doing exactly what is necessary.
- (es) mr president, since this parliament is usually very critical of the commission, i should like to begin by congratulating it and the commissioner responsible for economic and monetary affairs, mr solbes, on the integrity and dignity with which they have defended the powers conferred on them by the treaty as guardians of the treaties. i do not want to accuse the italian presidency, but, mr tremonti, the ecofin decision is a matter for the council to review. because the european union, mr president, is a community of values and a community of law, and legal rules - the rules of the stability and growth pact are legal rules - only make sense if they are compulsory to be respected, and this respect must be required in the same way from small and large countries. (applause) europe cannot be based on the law of the greatest. we cannot, mr president, apply the rules of the stability and growth pact to the letter in portugal and then exempt some larger countries from complying with them. it is one thing to be flexible and apply the rules according to the circumstances, but it is another to try to change the rules when the game has already started, when the outcome is not favourable or when it does not suit us; this attitude, mr president, will have consequences, because a market which is not able to respect its own rules generates insecurity and a lack of confidence in the credibility of the single currency and, as the president of our political group, mr poettering, has said, today's deficits are tomorrow's debts and the taxes of the day after tomorrow. what is worse is that this decision comes at a very bad time, precisely on the eve of the intergovernmental conference, which is to discuss the european constitution. i wonder what moral authority allows some member states to criticise others for exercising their legitimate rights in the context of qualified majority voting, while they themselves are clearly defending their national interests, thus flouting the spirit and the letter of the treaties, as the commission has acknowledged. i would therefore like to congratulate the commission on the integrity it has shown in defending its role as guardian of the treaties and ask it whether, for the sake of consistency, it intends to bring an infringement procedure against the council of ministers before the court of justice. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, president of the council, ladies and gentlemen! we have already debated the stability and growth pact in strasbourg on 21 october 2002. i made it clear at the time that there is no objection to limiting the new debt of public budgets, if this is coupled with the need to generate growth and stimulate demand. but growth and demand growth are not to be achieved by lowering wages or extending working hours, but by tax relief for lower and middle income groups, public investment, expansionary investment by companies and increased private consumption. the outcome of the euro finance ministers' meeting, freezing the deficit procedure against germany and france and giving these countries a delay until 2005 to reach the 3% annual debt ceiling, is a rotten compromise. this compromise does not change the basic false construction that in difficult economic times strict adherence to the 3% limit has a procyclical rather than an anticyclical effect. reform of the stability pact must be accompanied by a reinforced european economic, social, employment, tax and environmental policy in order to stimulate investment in general. it must be possible to make public investment financed by credit, even if this temporarily raises the deficit ratio above 3%. i think this is an honest and correct step, because otherwise we lose all credibility and every year more and more countries are faced with the same problem. my opinion - yours may be different - is that you should correct mistakes and not try to hide them by making new ones.
- (sv) madam president, the crisis in the stability and growth pact is a clear demonstration of the instability of the eu's monetary union. we can see how an economic crisis very quickly turns into a political crisis, given the way monetary union is currently designed. we can see how, in practice, there are quite different rules for large countries, such as germany and france, and for small countries, such as portugal and ireland. this crisis is not only due to non-compliance with the rules of the stability and growth pact. it is at the root of much deeper problems. the difficulties of germany and france are largely due to low growth and excessive unemployment. the problem is that in practice the eu's monetary union and the stability and growth pact do not provide anything in terms of boosting growth and creating more jobs. this is why the crisis is likely to worsen. we can also clearly see that different euro area countries are now likely to do well, having adopted different policies. countries with quite different growth and inflation rates need different interest and exchange rates. it is no coincidence that the countries of western europe outside the monetary union enjoy, on average, much higher economic development than the countries of the euro area. the euro is one aspect of the problem. it should be realised that the stability and growth pact is no longer working and needs to be amended. it must allow for a more expansive economic policy in times of crisis in order to avoid economic crises. a very large majority of swedes voted against the single currency in a referendum in september. the crisis in the stability and growth pact is just further proof that the decision not to participate in the eu's monetary union was a smart one. it is now time to go further and, in the context of the intergovernmental conference, confirm the swedish 'no' in a legally binding exemption at least as detailed as the british one.
- (el) madam president, most of what i wanted to say has already been said. i agree with mr poettering, who has sadly left us. i would like to draw attention to the following: the rules which we freely accept and subscribe to, whether we like it or not, must be respected by everyone, small and great, weak and strong. woe to those who would consider that the principles and rules of the european union are applied arbitrarily and to those who would only respect them when it is in their interests to do so and ignore them otherwise. the most fundamental principle of democracy is respect for the law by everyone. if it doesn't suit us, we can change things. if we are not satisfied with the stability pact, then it should be abolished or amended. however, there is no reason why it should apply to us, but not be respected by those who do not love it, as is the case today. when we discovered that the terms of the pact were being violated by small eu member states, such as portugal, they were forced to take strict measures and cut spending to bring their deficit below 3%. none of the large member states currently in breach is obliged to comply with the pact. it was only when this problem struck their economy unexpectedly that they discovered that the pact was not at all appropriate or acceptable. two weights, two measures. the response of the smaller countries is therefore reasonable. they find that 'some are more equal than others' as george orwell said. their lack of confidence in the new agreements on the draft constitution is therefore reinforced, with the potential risk of not seeing it ratified and of the european union finding itself in a terrible impasse.
- madam president, i rise to ask you if you will join me in expressing to the turkish judicial authorities your concern about the delays in bringing to justice those involved in the fight that took place in galatasaray, turkey, on the occasion of a football match against leeds united in april 2000. this terrible event led to the murder of two citizens of my constituency, christopher loftus and kevin speight. a local man, ali umit demir, was convicted of the murders. however, he appealed the first instance judgment and is now awaiting a new trial along with the other persons involved in the dispute. the preliminary hearing of the appeal trial was postponed twice, once in july and again in september this year. a third hearing was set for 11 december 2003. while i am very grateful to the turkish ambassador to the eu, mr oguz demiralp, for his interest and concern and for his assistance in this matter, i would greatly appreciate the support of the president of parliament by sending a letter to the turkish judicial authorities asking them to ensure that the judicial procedure is continued without further delay. i am sure the president understands the distress felt by the families of the victims of these murders because of the slowness and delays of the appeal process, which only add to the pain they have been experiencing since the beginning of this case.
- mr president, commissioner, on the subject of the directive, we can only agree with the need to reduce sulphur emissions into the atmosphere from maritime transport, which must make the same efforts in this respect as land transport. granite areas are particularly vulnerable to acidification by these sulphur discharges and must therefore be treated as a matter of priority. however, we must be careful not to penalise our own shipowners by setting standards which do not take sufficient account of the international nature of shipping. the union is, in this field as in many others, only an intermediate level. the relevant forum for the advancement of regulation is, in this case, the who. this is why we support measures to limit the maximum sulphur content of marine fuels used in the north sea, the channel and the baltic sea, because they fall within the limits set by the imo/marpol convention. this area could be extended if these were defined in the context of the imo. on the other hand, the over-bidding proposed by our rapporteur on the other two parts of the directive concerning the contents applicable to passenger ships and to vessels at berth does not seem appropriate to us. it does not take into account the need to proceed in these areas in a gradual manner in order to take account of the heavy technical constraints imposed on our shipowners by these new guidelines, nor the need to develop these emission reductions within the framework of the imo, which seems to be prepared to act. on the contrary, it creates discrimination which is harmful to european interests.
- mr president, we strongly advocate the extension to all member states of the derogations from reduced vat enjoyed by some of them, for example in the case of catering. we also strongly advocate the continuation of the reduced vat rate for labour-intensive services, which was introduced on an experimental basis in 1999. in its evaluation report on the experience, the commission expressed doubts, particularly as regards the effects on employment. finally, it does propose some perpetuations, which is a positive thing, but by including them in a wider plan for the eventual abolition of derogations, which also raises unnecessary discussions. as elected representatives, we see the positive effects of these vat cuts on the ground. and the report from france also highlighted them. we therefore believe that they should be perpetuated or at least, in the meantime, extended for several years, in the way indicated by the ecofin council of 25 november, for example for six years, as our rapporteur has just proposed. it seems to us that, in the spirit of good subsidiarity, this subject should be left to the exclusive competence of the member states. i shall supplement these assessments in my explanation of vote.
president of the court of auditors. (es) madam president, first of all, since there have been no specific questions but several speeches which have touched on the subject, i would like to make a clarification on eurostat. as we have already informed the cocobu on several occasions, the court has not carried out any complete audit of the statistical office, of eurostat. however, the court has examined some programmes implemented by eurostat in the context of other audits. the results of these audits were included in our annual reports for 1993, 1998 and 1999, the latter published in november 2000. our comments on the management of eurostat concern the inadequate procedures for awarding certain contracts and the misuse of the technical assistance offices, the so-called bat. it should be noted that the court had already made observations on bat as a result of other audits. in 1999 the commission reviewed the procedures for awarding contracts and the use of bat in response to these observations. the commission introduced new management and control rules in these two areas. in mid-2000 olaf also launched an internal investigation into eurostat. in view of these elements, new rules and olaf's investigation, it would not have been appropriate to launch an audit on eurostat at that time. i would like to stress that the court generally refrains from carrying out audits in the departments and areas where olaf carries out its investigations. we want to avoid any interference or action which could harm the anti-fraud investigation. the court will take into account eurostat's lessons when carrying out its risk analysis for the coming year. on the other hand, mr kuhne has made a comment which i appreciate, but i do not think there was any question addressed to the court of auditors. mr mulder says we're on the right track, but not for long. i think if we're going to be on the right track, we have to keep it. how long? it all depends on the organization, on the institution, on whether it is more or less complicated, or more or less extensive. the commission, given its size and geographical spread - it is certainly not alone and each of the changes it makes has a national impact and therefore has to be in constant contact with the different member states and cannot always maintain the cruising speed that can be set at a given moment - is not making reforms for the next five years either, but we believe that it is something that goes much further. i think we are on the right track, and that is also why parliament is here, to keep the commission awake and to keep this reform going. the truth is that since 1994 there has been a positive sdr despite a number of shortcomings in the accounting system. for this reason, in december 2002 the commission decided to carry out an accounting reform with the aim of making it operational in 2005. i still think that the date is optimistic, and i am not saying this to argue with the commission, but to ensure that you do not become discouraged if the year 2005 comes and the reform is not 100 per cent complete. we in the court of auditors believe that the time is short. we believe that it is better to take each step safely, rather than in haste, so that the decisions taken will stand and that reforms will not be an eternal "penelopism" of doing and undoing. on the other hand, since we are talking about reform, i also think it is important that this blow which all of us europeans have received with the eurostat case, when we thought that the bats and certain situations had been completed, should not undermine the reform. what this situation makes very clear is the urgency of continuing the reform and completing it as soon as possible. here's the situation. the problem is encrypting the improvement. you know the court has never been a friend of error rate talk. why would you do that? because it misleads and therefore we gain nothing. and yet, he's working with the standards. i am sure that through the standards presented this year we can raise the standards for the years to come, and with an agreement between what we call bread and what we call wine within the commission, parliament and the court of auditors, that is the best way to understand each other. mr sjöstedt says that we are talking about an overall improvement. but is there improvement or is there no improvement? and how much? that's why we talk about standards, so you can compare. i say yes, there is improvement. mrs rühle spoke of breaking down mistrust and increasing transparency and democracy. and then he spoke about agriculture - and i will also reply to mr sørensen - the problem with agriculture is that there are still too many wrong payments. that's the problem. and we've found that errors increase in payments that are outside the integrated management and control system. of course, talking about this is not talking about a small part of the budget. we're talking about more than 40% of the budget! and perhaps for the final beneficiary it is a small amount compared to the whole agricultural part, but to talk about 40% of the budget is a lot of budget, and therefore we must not let these small mistakes go unnoticed. it should also be borne in mind that 80% of the community budget is spent through national budgets. so how far can the commission improve without the help of the member states' control? what i can tell you is that we organise seminars throughout the year to which we already invite parliamentarians, other institutions, members of the national courts of auditors. we take them through luxembourg, we invite them to come, and it is a way of maintaining a good relationship with them, of giving them information, of gradually harmonizing the procedures, because we do not all work with the same systems. there is the saxon system and the european system and we are doing that harmonization work. on the other hand, i remember a bible phrase: "go and preach". well, the truth is, members of the court go and preach. each of us has been in our own country these days doing some explaining work. we do the same thing here in the national states, in parliament and in the court of auditors, and all this so that the member states can see how important their help and cooperation in the control of community funds is to us. i would like to make a few comments on the commission's proposal. thank you very much, and you know that, as always, we are at your disposal. (applause) i would like to thank
- thank you for your understanding, mr. president. we have very strict hours. the debate is closed.
- the agenda calls for the report (a5-0399/2003) by mrs jensen, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending council regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to selfemployed persons and to members of their families moving within the community, and council regulation (eec) no 574/72 laying down the procedure for implementing regulation (eec) no 1408/71, as regards the alignment of entitlements and the simplification of procedures (com (2003) 378 - c5-0290/2003 - 2003/0138 (cod)).
- just to clarify the wording, because i think the original wording was not entirely understandable. at the end of the amendment proposed by richard corbett, and in agreement with him, i propose that you read the amendment 'the introduction to article 1 (2) of equality between women and men which must, however, be recognised as a value and not simply as a principle'.
in writing. - the legal affairs committee is not a court. but in view of the documents provided by judge courroye concerning jean-charles marchiani, the "normal" reaction would be to allow justice to do its job. the charges against him are extremely serious. the mep is alleged to have misappropriated €5.5 million in the falcone case. he is allegedly involved in illicit arms trafficking with angola and in two cases of alleged corruption related to public procurement, for the leclerc tanks and for the roissy airport. his only defence is to invoke the "fumus persecutionnis", i.e. the suspicion that a legal action is being initiated primarily to reach a politician of high standing. but in the eyes of the french authorities, and the tax authorities in particular, but also of the parliamentarians of all origins in the legal affairs committee, jean-charles marchiani would rather benefit from a "fumus protectionnis". this is an unacceptable attitude which discredits us all. to lift the immunity of jean-charles marchiani is to reject a world where tax havens, arms dealers and oil companies rule. it is to reject the "françafrica" which gangrenously corrupts the political world with money and disregards the justice and sovereignty of the african peoples. for these reasons, we voted to waive immunity.
in writing. - in accordance with the conclusions of the european summits in tampere and seville, the european union is committing eur 250 million over the period 2004-08 to third countries to combat the immigration of their nationals to europe. this programme of technical and financial assistance in the field of asylum and migration is nothing more than the 'outsourcing' of the management of migration flows. instead of having refugee camps in the member states, we will have them at the gates of fortress europe in the worst health and social conditions, without any guarantee of respect for human rights. but behind the aridity of european figures and regulations are hidden the real reasons for migration: poverty, social despair, underdevelopment, political and democratic situation that is unsustainable. these are the reasons why the eu must fight against third countries while guaranteeing the right of every person to move and settle wherever he or she chooses. to combat 'illegal immigration' we must oppose undeclared work, regulate the undocumented and give political and social rights, starting with a residence citizenship for all immigrants living in europe. instead the eu dishonors itself with mass expulsions. instead of voting on this report, we call on members to sign the european appeal against 'charters of humiliation'.
in writing. - we supported the auroi report because we share the philosophy of the rapporteur and his fear of the proliferation of pseudo-organic names which could mislead consumers if the controls are not sufficiently rigorous and harmonised. these controls must of course be carried out at the production stage and we agree with the rapporteur's position on the possible risk of contamination by gmos. but these controls must also be exercised at the stage of marketing the products, and therefore in respect of imported products, in order to avoid abuse and fraud in a market which is attracting an increasing number of consumers.
in writing. - last night at the end of the debate we were astonished to see the commission throwing off its mask and declaring that it would not propose in any case the extension of the experimental reduction of vat rates for labour-intensive services, even if the member states unanimously requested it (as was the case on 25 november). we thus see both the undemocratic nature of the monopoly of initiative and the arrogance of the commission when it uses it to defend its power interests. because it's all about power. the commission wants to move towards a 'country of origin' vat system which will give it a central role and more power. this is why it proposed its so-called 'rationalization' plan, in which the perpetuation of certain reduced rates was only a decoy. the professions, particularly those in the catering and construction industries, are thus held hostage by the commission. we hope that the ministers will put their hands on the table and take this into account in the work of the intergovernmental conference. in the meantime, we support the excellent randzio-plath report, which has clearly understood the issues.
in writing. - i agree with our rapporteur that i do not think it is appropriate to harmonise vat rates without first improving the economic and fiscal system of the member states as a whole. in the difficult economic and social times we are living in, the economic system advocated by the commission and the intangible respect for the maastricht criteria demonstrate the need for a minimum of flexibility. each state must have at its disposal all its cyclical, economic and monetary instruments to act in the most appropriate way. direct and indirect taxation are among the instruments which the eu must be able to use as it sees fit, because each economy is unique, even if it is an integral part of a globalised system. the problems are not necessarily the same in different countries, so the solutions must be different. it is all these reasons which have led me, and the colleagues in my delegation, to call on behalf of france for the continuation of the reduced vat rates in annex h, in particular for catering, accommodation and recording services.
in writing. - four years of reduced vat rates do not allow us to see the full effects of this experiment, especially since some employers, knowing that it was temporary, did not implement it. however, all the professionals consulted affirm that the reduction in vat has positive economic impacts which are not negligible. the number of employees in the housekeeping sector in france has increased by 8.6% in two years. that is why we must continue along this path. as rapporteur for an opinion, i can only welcome the commission's text and in particular annex h, extending annex k to certain services, such as catering. since each member state is free to choose to apply a reduced rate in a category listed in annex h, not all sectors which have benefited from the experience should now be excluded from the scope of the directive. that is why i voted in favour of the amendments of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. amendments nos 22 and 23, which i tabled with astrid lulling for the plenary session, are also very important. they allow the experiment to be extended until the entry into force of this amendment to the directive, which is absolutely necessary in order to avoid disastrous consequences for employment.
in writing. - three priority sectors must be able to benefit on a lasting basis from the reduced rate of vat in france: the building sector, the catering sector and the record industry. since it has no impact on competition, this decision should be the exclusive responsibility of the states, deciding according to their own priorities. for france, these priorities are: job creation, the reduction of undeclared work and cultural development. but the european commission does not agree with this: instead of giving up its unsuccessful attempts to harmonize vat and allow the states to regain their freedom, it wants to increase its powers by imposing the rapid extinction of derogations. commissioner bolkestein cynically said last night that although the council had unanimously demanded that the reduced rate for labour-intensive services be maintained, the commission had no intention of making a proposal to that effect and would instead initiate proceedings, as from 1 july 2004, against states which maintained these reduced rates. this blockade by the commission, which is holding our professions hostage in order to increase its own powers, is unacceptable and shows that any transfer of competence must remain reversible.
in writing. - the joint resolution by the pse, epp and liberals on the preparation of the brussels european council is a reflection of the liberal, militarist and anti-democratic europe they are building. the demand for the transfer of sovereignty from the us occupation forces to the iraqi representatives or for a fair trial for the guantanamo prisoners cannot be an illusion about the true nature of europe. first, it is a prisoner of liberal ideology. competition, growth, the stability pact, the liberalization of postal services and transport are presented to us as self-evident, while the people are suffering the full effects of this policy, starting with unemployment and precariousness. managing migration flows and border controls is the sinister response to the damned of the earth, ready to do anything to get out of poverty, underdevelopment, dictatorships and wars. finally, the intergovernmental conference is continuing its negotiations behind closed doors, in defiance of the 450 million europeans, on the constitutionalisation of liberalism. we are not from this europe. that is why we cannot support this resolution. we are 'other europeans' who, together with thousands of others, at the european social forum in paris/saint-denis, are proposing another europe based on peace, democracy, social rights and public services.
in writing. - i voted against the maccormick report for the reasons set out in my minority opinion, which is annexed to it: the 'contracts' or 'tripartite agreements on objectives' are nothing but a war machine set up by the commission against the states, to circumvent them by establishing direct links between brussels and the regions. this innovation would thus, on a small scale, contribute to the vast undertaking of 'dethrusting' the states, led by the commission and the federalist pressure groups. this undertaking is aimed at the patient destruction of a centuries-old work, the diminution of which will tomorrow leave the peoples unarmed in the face of a poorly controlled european power. the european parliament's report, despite its shortcomings, seems at times to see the dangers of the new system and to be frightened by them. it calls for tripartite agreements to remain exceptional, so as not to 'give rise to extreme complexity and to the actual undermining of the normative objective' (paragraph 8), and not to favour the elimination of state responsibility (paragraph 14). it would have been better, however, to avoid these dangers, if the european parliament itself had not approved the causes.
- several remarks have been made. as regards mr papayannakis' request, in the light of the views exchanged, and despite the fact that the request was not submitted in writing, there seems to be a consensus in favour of postponing the vote to wednesday. thursday is the day on which the annual budget is voted. i hope that the quorum will be met, or even exceeded, otherwise we risk not having a budget. so, thursday we'll work as usual. (the order of business is as follows)
- mr president, france, as everyone knows, is a secular state. secularism is a fundamental value for the french and an intrinsic part of our culture. the islamic headscarf is a sign of women's oppression, a sign of male superiority. this is unacceptable for the french, but also for every man, every woman who is in love with humanism. we are here to fight for equality between men and women. the problem of the islamic headscarf is a complex one and we would like some of our colleagues not to add to it with their certainties. if they have the truth, good for them. we are looking for peace and will do everything to promote secularism, which is the only hope for peace among all religions. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, i congratulate spain and poland on the courageous and principled attitude they adopted at the recent intergovernmental conference; this attitude led to the failure of the miserable draft constitution. (various movements) however, i regret that this failure is due to the weighting of the votes, which is mainly a technical issue, and not to a rejection in principle of this giant step towards european integration, which the public does not ask for. a disturbing parallel is emerging between the political elite of the eu on the one hand and that of the former ussr on the other. both were obsessed with their own narrow vision of the unification of their continent. both have shown arrogant disregard for the ambitions and aspirations of ordinary people and one day we may say that both have failed.
- mr president, i congratulate mr liese on his dedicated work on this sensitive and technical subject. we shall vote tomorrow on a compromise package containing 21 amendments. the fact that an agreement was reached between parliament and the council is largely due to the tireless efforts of the rapporteur, who tried to rally all the political groups to his cause and who vigorously defended parliament's view with the other institutions. parliament found the common position totally unacceptable. the council paid little attention to the 50 amendments adopted by this house at first reading. the compromise presented this week further reflects the reality that the council and parliament are equal legislators in this area. thanks to our persistence, parliament has clearly improved the original proposal. as far as ethical principles are concerned, i welcome the more specific language used to reinforce the principle of voluntary and unpaid donation of cells and tissues. i also welcome the new wording on the protection of donor anonymity. the wording is now clearer in terms of many essential aspects, including the fundamental principle that parts of the human body, including tissues and cells, should not be treated as marketable products. as regards organs, parliament recognised that this directive was not suitable for a debate on organ transplantation. nevertheless, we look forward to a proposal from the commission on this very important subject. as far as cloning is concerned, i preferred the original amendment no 38, but the compromise offers sufficient guarantees. it is explicitly for member states to set strict public health rules, including a total exclusion of cloned human material or human/animal hybrids as transplantable material. apart from the fact that the transplantation of cloned material poses obvious health risks, as we know little about the future consequences, i am opposed to the creation of human life as a raw material for tissues and cells. i believe that this is a serious violation of human dignity and the right to life guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights. parliament has repeatedly expressed its opposition to human cloning and is committed to a unanimous ban on the practice. in conclusion, my group supports the compromise and has tabled all the amendments concerned. this is an important directive which i am sure will make a vital contribution to public health in the european union by ensuring high quality standards while respecting fundamental ethical considerations.
- (it) mr president, i think i can say, in accordance with the judgments expressed by commissioner bolkestein, that a new opportunity has been missed to modernise the capital market, above all by means of rules which can guarantee greater competitiveness for european companies and, through this, more effective protection for shareholders. let me be clear: i think it is an exaggeration to define this directive as a directive on takeovers - as mr huhne has said before. this is about recognising that there are different laws and allowing different countries to maintain protectionist laws against their companies, market leaders, whether public or private. i believe that we should go much further and choose either to move towards an integrated, efficient and competitive european capital market which offers the european union new opportunities for growth, including in the field of employment, or not to take this so-called 'risk' and to remain in the situation we are in. the rules as proposed by the council remove very little of the obstacles to the competitiveness of firms that the rules of certain states create, with the result that it is unfortunately impossible to make hostile offers - the norm in a mature financial market where capital moves where it is judged that there are margins of efficiency to be recovered, in the interests of firms and workers in these and other firms, in the interests of consumers of products, goods or services. there is also the danger that this crystallization of the present situation will set us back. in italy, where legislation is very open and effective in this respect - the draghi law - there is already a call to step back, arguing that in europe we are not going as far as openness to the competitiveness of enterprises. i hope that if this provision - which, i remind you, is not a directive on takeovers - were to be adopted by parliament tomorrow, it would generate real competition between legal systems and would have the consequence that the systems where takeovers are penalized and hindered will pay through the 'football vote' of international investors. the positive elements are very few: the recognition of the protection of minority rights and the couperet clause, i.e. the idea that the debate on the subject can be reopened. for this simple reason, it is probably worthwhile to approve this provision, which does not constitute a european "law" on takeover bids. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that employment in europe, the interests of workers and the unemployed, are also defended by efficient capital markets. they are not today, and i do not think that this directive will create the conditions for that.
- (it) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on takeover bids is a piece of legislation which is essential for the construction of a genuine internal market in company control: a piece of legislation which can give a decisive impetus to the virtuous movement of capital in europe. the european parliament has already said that it will not be able to vote on the report. after 14 years, we are finally close to the goal, and it is regrettable that the commission does not see the positive aspects of the present compromise. in recent months there has been intense cooperation between the council and parliament, and this is a positive result in itself. god knows what europe needs today - positive results! this is a compromise, and the only one that is possible at the moment. we would have liked more - especially in my country, which has very advanced and open legislation on this matter. we would have liked a directive which would have created a real level playing field with the passivity rule and the complete neutralization of defensive measures. we tried to do that, but it was not possible because of the opposition of some member states, which are now probably hiding behind so-called social amendments. the compromise we are voting on tomorrow reflects the state of european capitalism, which remains a mixture of small and large-scale capitalism. the rights of workers are well protected. hence the opt-in/opt-out system for a level playing field for all. but there is a promise to try again in a few years' time, with the appropriate cut-off clause, when the time comes because the financial markets will have rewarded companies for choosing competitiveness. it will then be enough to delete article 11a, make a few minor amendments, and a new directive will be ready for the future. with this directive and the other directives we are adopting as part of the financial services action plan, competitive companies, their governance and their balance sheets will be transparent. and we need transparency very much, given recent cases like enron, cirio and parmalat. companies will be encouraged to choose competitiveness by the fact that competitive companies will be able to refuse to be acquired by non-competitive companies. we have established the references and protected them, which is better than a directive which only provides for transparency procedures, such as the one in the united states. all in all, we can be proud of that.
- mr president, i must still ask mr bolkestein whether he supports the amendments we have proposed. what is it? either we follow the socialists and all those who have not understood the interests of those they claim to defend and simply reject the commission's proposal, or we follow the path i proposed, but i did not have enough time to explain myself. i would ask anyone who wants to reject the commission's proposal outright to think it over carefully. if they vote for the amendments that mr schmidt and i have tabled on behalf of our groups, then we are giving the right signal for a sensible directive, which will not raise costs. can mr bolkestein say whether he supports our amendments?
- (es) mr president, first of all, let me - as other members have already done - congratulate the rapporteur, mr manders, and the rapporteur of my group, mrs niebler, who was able not only to reach agreements with mr manders, but also to seek consensus within the group and to inform us in detail about the circumstances surrounding this proposal for a directive. as has been said, this is a really important directive. we are all aware of the importance of protecting the environment and the fact that this directive reflects the polluter pays principle. however, we must also be aware that the polluters are often companies and that we must ensure their survival in our economy. i therefore believe that two principles prevail: the first, which mr gargani mentioned, is not to encourage the relocation of our companies to other markets and the second is to find the best possible harmonisation within the european union. i believe that all the countries of the union must implement this directive and that the directive must bind the member states in the same way: we must not allow each member state to apply it in a different way. the scope of application must be as broad as possible, as the common position provides. as for the possible exceptions for operators in respect of compliance with earlier legislation, i believe that amendments nos 9 and 16 are certainly excessive, as has been said here, and would allow certain undertakings to evade their obligation to pay. but it is quite clear that we must find a mechanism to consider the fact that companies comply with the legislation in force as a mitigating circumstance. as regards reparation measures, we must allow the member states to be able to cover the damage caused, as is stated in amendments nos 10, 11 and 12, adopted by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. finally, as regards the period for which a company can be held liable, i believe that the 30-year period provided for in the common position is excessive. the environmental contingency that this would imply for companies seems to me exaggerated and i support mrs thyssen's amendment, which would reduce this deadline to 10 years: it is much more logical to reduce the period during which companies must be considered responsible for the environmental damage caused.
- (it) mr president, as an assessment of your work at the european council, all we have to do now is to say that the union is neither stronger nor more united than it was six months ago, that your government's contribution to restoring the cohesion lost during the battle over iraq has been insignificant and that your statements on chechnya, your failure to present an initiative on the death penalty and the support or lack of criticism you have shown towards the bush and sharon governments have reduced the union's already weak credibility as an actor on the international stage. otherwise, we could also point to mr tremonti's indifference to ecofin's attempt to dismantle the budget agreements reached by the convention, or to mr lunardi's scandalous attitude in pushing for european funding of the trans-european networks that his company would then like to build. however, the europeans will remember your presidency above all for your failure to reach agreement on the text of the convention. this will be the case even if you manage, through your television networks, to convince the italians that success has been achieved because you have succeeded in getting the seat of the european food safety authority in parma and in producing an agreement - for the moment still in the starting square - on the financing of two tunnels and a useless bridge. of course, it would be very unfair of me to say that this failure is entirely due to poor preparation or at least the original approach of bilateral meetings which did not provide for any plenary discussions and prevented a clear idea of these mysterious compromise proposals and who was for or against what. however, we believe - and we are certain - that the agreement which was being drawn up would have created more problems than the present crisis. and i will tell you something else: i do not think that we can really say today that there is a solid agreement on the majority of the 82 points put forward by the italian presidency, which, moreover, are largely unacceptable because they represent a step backwards, not only in relation to the convention, but also in relation to nice. whether you like it or not, the only text on the table is the one adopted by the convention. your weak presidency and the spanish and polish governments are not the only ones to blame for this crisis. there are many others, starting with those who rejected the double majority vote in nice and who are now emerging as unlikely european political heroes. we therefore accept the challenge of this crisis: it could lead to a better constitution for the future. however, it is clear that the governments of both the old and the new member states of the union are unable to reach a consensus on a viable constitution for europe. it's no use, you can't do it alone. the irish presidency will not succeed where italy has failed. to succeed in giving europe a constitution, you need us, your citizens, your parliaments. you need it if you want to prevent the project of an enlarged and united europe from collapsing into disastrous conflicts over financial prospects or national sovereignty. the constitution is not dead. governments are not masters of europe, not least because when they try to be, they get lost in internal disputes. we must take the initiative without delay and prevent the work of the convention from being put in a dusty drawer forever under the pretext that we need time to think or to fulfil our electoral obligations. to this end, we must find allies in national parliaments and governments who, like us, see the urgent need to overcome the crisis quickly, to restore confidence in the european project, to restore its credibility and to affirm that it is imperative to abolish the right of veto for institutional reforms. i regret, mr berlusconi, that it is impossible to know clearly whether italy is one of these allies. i hope you'll say yes. but beware: we are not yet resigned to the idea that the european union, which has barely been built, should already be divided or that the time has come to determine its speed of progress according to the interests of a small elite. we don't believe that there should be two different factions or groups. our aim must remain the revitalization of the project of a democratic and effective europe, with which everyone can identify. we may have come very close to an agreement in brussels. if so, we call on the irish presidency to convene another convention without delay to state loud and clear whether it is still possible to reach an agreement. if not, the constituent process should be relaunched after the european elections. (applause) i would like to thank
- like the constitution, it could be immortalized!
- (da) mr president, i am glad that we are now given a little more time to discuss the constitution. the negotiations are 99% complete. there is one very important aspect which remains to be settled: the definition of the qualified majority. then there will be the meeting with the electorate. why not use this time to prepare referendums in all countries? in parallel to the summit, the european referendum campaign brought together in brussels some 100 participants from various organisations. mr leinen and i were among the speakers. on behalf of sos democracy and the group for a europe of democracies and differences, i would like to contribute to a sound information work on the draft constitution. let the federalists and the euro-realists present our different visions for europe, with accessible publications of the text of the constitution. let us all demand that referendums be held in all eu countries under the same slogan: 'a european constitution? let's ask the citizens". in denmark we will have a referendum, but the junibevægelsen party would like to help collect signatures for referendums in all eu countries. if a referendum in denmark is rejected, a new referendum is held. instead of giving the danes and the irish a second vote, it would be better to consult the eu as a whole. so i'm going to collect signatures to call for eu-wide referendums. it is unthinkable to give a constitution to the citizens without first asking their consent.
- (es) mr president, almost all the parliamentary groups and - it seems - all the member states say they want a new legal framework for the union in the form of a constitution. the work of many people over many months has resulted in a proposal that a large majority seems to accept. the good work of the italian presidency has also enabled us to add an essential element to this agreement this weekend: the establishment of a european defence doctrine. all this, the fruit of negotiations - as mr berlusconi said - must be taken up and consolidated as an adopted text. how did we come to this failure? i believe that the failure stems from a proposal for institutional reform that the president of the convention put forward at the last moment, which had not been sufficiently debated and on which there was certainly no consensus within the convention. it seems that six months in brussels have proved to be too short a time to reach a compromise. it's not a disaster. we must remember that of the five previous intergovernmental conferences which had negotiated treaty reforms, only one ended six months after it had begun. the irish presidency simply has to pick up where the italian presidency left off. mr president, i think that the following points should be dismissed: firstly, the absurd idea of postponing this debate until after the european elections; secondly, the idea that what interests me is pro-european and what does not interest me is anti-european; thirdly, the absurdity of dividing europe even before enlargement; and fourthly, the complaints which lead nowhere, except for a few people, of course - like the president of the group of the party of european socialists - who believe that the government of their country is the only one to blame, whatever it does and whatever happens. i think the only sentence he knows in italian is piove, porco governo [it's raining, goddamn government]. he indulges in this type of national opposition in the european parliament and then is surprised to lose election after election. it must be the fault of the voters, of course. anyway, we're all responsible now. mr president, we must keep the igc open, we must contribute to the dialogue and commitment to which we all aspire. let us pray that we can do so before june 13.
- (fi) mr president, it would be wrong to say that the intergovernmental conference held in recent weeks has been a failure. on the contrary, under the italian presidency we were able to keep the basic ideas of the convention almost intact and to agree on 22 of the areas examined. consensus was reached on an important issue for future security: the development of basic european common defence structures. when the igc realised that the original wording of the convention concerning the relationship between the position of non-aligned countries and security guarantees should be included, finland, sweden and austria were also able to become fully involved in security cooperation. the way in which disputes over the location of eu agencies were settled was an indirect consequence of the summit. these discussions have long been a source of irritation. italy can therefore go away satisfied and boast of the merits of parma ham and prosciutto. finland will monitor the situation through the agency for chemical substances and ensure that the italians do not use the wrong ingredients in their production. the argument on how the voting rights of countries should be distributed within the council left open all that has already been agreed. as president chirac himself admitted, the failure of the nice summit was the reason. we must be objective and not point an accusing finger at the country which is currently holding the presidency, or even at poland or spain. it is understandable that germany was not able to accept the nice decision. it is equally natural, however, that it cannot impose the solution on us. on the contrary, we are now going to start negotiations to achieve a balance, discussions that take a balanced view of the status of small countries and not just of large states like spain and poland. a return to a true double majority voting - 50% of the population and 50% of the countries - must certainly be one aspect of the solution, which would also reassure the small countries that they will not be at the mercy of the big ones in the future. however, it is important that discussions on issues that have already been settled are not reopened on the basis of an unresolved dispute. if that were to happen, we could really say that the brussels summit and the igc have failed. (applause) i would like to thank
- (el) mr president, mr president-in-office, you have heard a great many criticisms which i share, but which i have no reason to repeat. i want to emphasise something you said quite rightly when you spoke about the status of the european central bank: you stressed that it has a lower status than the us federal reserve, because it is not intended to support economic activity or price stability. you are the first president of the european council and the first prime minister to highlight the shortcomings of the statute of the european central bank from such an official forum, which is important and i thank you for it. i have no doubt that the italian presidency's proposal that the council should have the possibility of amending the statute of the european central bank by qualified majority will be accepted. i hope that the statute of the european central bank will soon be amended as you have indicated so that it can finally start encouraging investment, especially in the public sector, instead of trying to freeze it at every stage, as if it were an illegitimate child.
- your wish is well within the rules, mr. gollnisch. i would point out, however, that the debate on this point has already taken place and we are now voting on it.
in writing. - the report deals with the procedure for adopting derogating measures concerning the development of a common system of value added tax. if the european institutions were concerned with the interests of the majority of the population, they would standardize vat by proposing... its abolition, which would at the same time simplify the procedure... but of course the european institutions, like the national states, are mainly keen to relieve the burden of taxation from private enterprises and the privileged social classes by making the population, including the poorest, bear the bulk of the burden. indirect taxes, including vat, are used for this purpose. they are particularly unfair because, not being proportional to income, they hit the poor harder than the rich. we have of course voted against the report.
in writing. - (pt) the apparent objective of this proposal for a directive is to avoid double taxation of corporate profits, to be precise to ensure that profits taxed and paid as dividends by a subsidiary company to its parent company are not taxed twice. in reality, the directive seeks to remove the tax 'disadvantage' between multinational and national groups, thus responding to the demands of the 'business world'. the basis of the proposal is therefore to extend the scope of the directive to more types of commercial companies and to lower the minimum threshold for holding a shareholding from 25% to 10% in order to have one company recognised as a parent company and the other as a subsidiary, with the aim of guaranteeing exemptions, for example, from withholding tax. the rapporteur, who would have preferred that there was no minimum threshold, proposes a threshold of 5%, which is lower than the commission's proposal. in other words, the relevant issue is not so much double taxation but finding the legal means for multinational groups to manage their tax benefits by allowing them to use cross-border exemptions and deductions to de facto reduce the tax on their profits and thus increase the 'legal' possibilities for tax evasion, which is unacceptable. portugal is one of the three countries where this threshold is around 25%, and this directive will therefore increase the pressure for a change in the regime applicable to national groups.
in writing. - some meps would like the staff representatives of the companies concerned to be better informed in the event of takeover bids than is provided for in this directive. i guess so. but why does one of these amendments propose at the same time the acceptance of 'confidentiality clauses', which means ultimately reserving information to a few delegates and forbidding it to all workers? and even if these amendments were adopted, they would not in the least protect workers from the dramatic consequences of stock market takeovers, especially collective redundancies under the pretext of restructuring. the european authorities are concerned with unifying the jungle of this system, as here in the case of takeover bids. but they are laughing at those who, year after year, takeover bid or not, find themselves more and more in the streets because reducing the workforce and, therefore, the wage bill, is one of the ways for capital holders to raise the price of their shares on the stock market. only a ban on collective redundancies could protect workers from the dramatic consequences of takeovers on their jobs. we voted against this report.
in writing. - (de) for more than a decade we have been debating the takeover bid directive. the first version failed to overcome the last obstacle here in the house. i am glad to see that, thanks to the negotiations involving the council and our rapporteur mr lehne, the adoption of this important text is finally close. the italian-portuguese compromise reached in the council and adopted by the committee on legal affairs and internal market and the committee on economic and monetary affairs appears to be the best possible outcome in a complex situation. to stipulate that articles 9 and 11 are applicable throughout europe while allowing member states not to make them binding on their businesses is not ideal, but it is the only possible compromise. the alternative would be to have no directive and nobody wants that. a small step in the right direction is always better than years of idleness. i think there are a few strategic areas where special rights should be granted to member states for use in public procurement. the report under consideration indirectly covers the possibility for member states to rely on such rights and also solves the specifically scandinavian problem of values with multiple voting rights, without jeopardising the importance of a level playing field, which guarantees equal opportunities for businesses. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - in the present european context, particularly in view of the problems raised by taxation, particularly indirect taxation, i cannot accept the commission's proposal to abolish the vat exemption for postal services. given that the sixth directive of 1977 has not yet been updated, that problems of approximation of vat rates persist, and that the postal sector undergoing liberalization has not yet been the subject of an impact study, how can such a proposal be made? apart from vat, how can we believe in healthy competition for the benefit of users in the member states when the commission proposes an optional reduced rate for conventional postal services, which can only highlight the technical problems linked to weight and the disparities in rates between member states. once again the commission is putting the cart before the horse by trying to convince us by the coué method: well, we are not fooled and reject this text.
in writing. - (pt) the commission's proposal aims to abolish the vat exemption for postal services, which has existed since the sixth vat directive of 1977. the commission thus pursues two objectives: to continue the process of introducing a single vat system and to contribute to the ongoing liberalisation of postal services at eu level, as recommended by directive 2002/39/ec. thus, following this process of gradual liberalisation - which i reject because it undermines the public service and its universal character - the abolition of the obligation for public operators to charge the full rate of vat would have the effect of increasing the cost of the services provided, especially for private individuals, and of encouraging the outsourcing of services. i therefore agree with the economic and monetary affairs committee of the european parliament in recommending that this commission proposal be rejected, although this is not the position of the rapporteur. i therefore welcome the rejection of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur himself, with the support of his group and the epp-ed, which sought a compromise that would allow the adoption of this proposal for a directive.
- mr president, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate our rapporteurs, jan mulder and neena gill, as well as the whole committee on budgets and its staff, for the preparation of this 2004 budget. it was conducted in an unusually serene manner, with a new budgetary framework and in the context of enlarged europe. i think that our committee has reached a maturity in compromise for this parliament and has been able to work out a working method under the leadership of our chairman, mr wynn, a working method which is bearing fruit particularly this year. the priorities of our group have been heard, retained and strengthened. i am thinking of community policies in favour of enterprises, and particularly small and mediumsized enterprises, and of all those policies which contribute to the construction of a people's europe, such as the twinning arrangements in the enlarged europe, and which give visibility to europe's action in the world, such as the appropriations for vaccination against poverty-related diseases. a budget that is calm, but one that is surrounded by a general challenge to parliament's powers in budgetary matters. we have had to endure the provocations of the council to the end with regard to our rights and prerogatives. with what result? it is high time to reflect on the worrying gap between political rhetoric and budgetary executability. every year i denounce this problem, which has become recurrent. the council's frivolous attitude is contrary to our legitimate budgetary ambitions. the brussels fiasco has shown what our heads of state and government have in store for europe. a real involvement of europe in the lives of its citizens cannot be achieved without far-reaching policies. and large-scale policies require a large budget. the council seems not to have heard this, focusing on the stability pact and the sum of national selfishness. is this the europe we want to build? i certainly don't. it is the one we are being pushed towards. we had an example of this inconsistency with information policy when the budget was voted. we want to bring europe closer to the citizens, we are worried about the general public's disengagement from the construction of europe and we are trying to federate peoples around major projects. all this requires a coherent and ambitious information and communication policy. however, without parliament's intervention, the appropriations allocated to this policy would have suffered from the council's budget cuts. but the most serious problem is the weakening of our budget, with payment appropriations falling this year to less than 0.99% of gdp, the lowest level since 1987. i therefore agree with the remarks of president cox and the analysis of mr prodi in his reply to the six heads of state who call for a reduction in the ceiling on payment appropriations to 1% of gnp. where is the coherence with the lisbon project, the growth project, the competitiveness project for the union? there are no miracles. the squaring of the circle has never been proved. being head of state or government means being responsible. it is therefore about ensuring that the means and objectives are appropriate. if the council wants to lead us into a deadlock, it is up to us, the european parliament, to remind it of its promises. and i do not see how we can finance these crucial reforms with ever-diminishing means. the european parliamentarians elected by the people are responsible elected representatives. thank you, mrs. schreyer, for calling him back. they know how to draw up the union's budgets in accordance with budgetary orthodoxy. but they also know that the union's budget must respect the political priorities decided upon, co-decided upon. the council must respect parliament today and must have more confidence in our assembly, which enjoys the legitimacy of the ballot box, in the future.
- i think, mr mulder, that the applause from all the benches in this house shows you how grateful this house is for your work. the debate is closed. the vote on this important matter will take place on thursday at 11.30 a.m.
- the 2004 budget of the enlarged europe is less than 1% of gross national income. since 1997, it has never been lower. commitments are decreasing; the payments are decreasing. the structural funds and agricultural expenditure are also falling. the appropriations for external aid under heading 4 are now reduced to the appropriate amount: eur 35 million is thus taken from aid to latin america. financial pressures on fundamental elements of community policy, such as human rights or the duty to assist the weakest, are accompanied by a devastating squeeze on development aid funds. in these circumstances, how can we expect poverty to be eradicated by 2015? the question of the funds for iraq is not primarily financial. the urgent thing is to end the occupation. the iraqi people must regain their sovereignty as soon as possible so that they can assess their own needs and organise the means to meet them. the use of the flexibility instrument would raise €95 million. the solution proposed - to reduce appropriations under heading 4 still further - is not acceptable. this budget does not meet the challenges that the eu should face today for a fairer and more united world.
- mr president, this is not a supplementary question, but, if you will, a very brief recall of the rules of procedure, which are based on rule 43. it seems to me - listening to the answers given by the president of the council to our colleagues - that they are extremely important and that more members of parliament should listen to them. furthermore, under rule 43 this is called 'questions time to the council and the commission' and i think it would also be very interesting, even if, of course, the council is the one who is asked these questions, if the answers were given in the presence of a representative of the commission, because then we could, perhaps, in a more respectful way of the letter of our rules of procedure, have a more accurate assessment of what the various institutions think of the questions that are asked.
- you misunderstood my question. i say that it would be interesting if there were a representative of the commission to hear the council's replies. that's just what i wanted to say.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, we are discussing this evening the legislative package relating to the revision of the legislation on human and veterinary medicines. this revision represents two years of work, more than two years of joint work, research, questions, negotiations, two years which i hope will be concluded tomorrow with a successful vote. i would like to thank very sincerely my colleagues in the european parliament, all the groups, with whom i have had many meetings, and in particular my colleague mrs müller. i thank her for her efficient cooperation. i listened to the requests of my colleagues. i defended their arguments to the council. i have included them in all my steps so that today's result is shared by all. i would also like to thank the european commission, in particular commissioner liikanen, whose brilliant team i have seen to be very dedicated and have appreciated the quality of our exchanges. i would also like to thank the council for the constructive approach it has taken to these issues in order to reach agreement at second reading. but all this thanks will be in vain if tomorrow each member of this house does not show responsibility by not adopting the negotiated compromise and voting in favour of other amendments which, i believe, reflect more individual interests than collective interests. yes, we have a compromise, and a compromise does not satisfy everything. but what progress, what progress we have made in public and animal health! the goal of balance, so difficult to achieve at the outset, has been achieved. we wanted to bring the different partners together, in particular to bring health care and innovation face to face. however, the analysis showed that generic drugs and innovations by pharmaceutical companies are not contradictory. these are not two opposing products but complementary ones. generics do not develop without innovation and innovation is still encouraged by the availability of generic medicines. protecting the health of the patient means being able to combat the development of new diseases, to deal with old plagues that reappear or to cure more effectively. protecting the health of the patient means giving scientific research the effective means to discover either new molecules or an innovative therapeutic use for an existing medicine. innovation comes at a cost. we must not forget that protecting our health requires considerable financial investment. data protection is therefore essential to guarantee medical progress, our european medical progress of which we are proud. the result of our compromise is 8 + 2 + 1 and that is what we shall vote on tomorrow in the sitting. development and research form the basis of health protection, which would not be complete without the availability of generic medicines. generics are very important for our european health systems and for patients. i therefore welcome the direction taken by these directives. the terminology 'generic medicinal products' is introduced for the first time. it is also proposed that the bolar system be introduced in the union, which we have improved by our amendments. this will speed up the availability of all generics. my colleagues in the house and the council have also accepted my proposal, called the 'eurogeneric' which will avoid any blocking of the development of these products, particularly in the candidate countries. the review of pharmaceutical legislation is not only about finding the optimum balance between generics and innovations. many other equally important aspects were considered. i am thinking in particular of the definitions of medicinal product, generic medicinal product and biosimilar medicinal product. there have been tense debates on these issues. personally, i have always advocated a product safety approach. having too broad definitions would be counterproductive for manufacturers and patients. we have reached a satisfactory balance on this point, as we have on frontier products. i know that this is still a matter of some debate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. making a list of exemptions also did not seem to be the right solution. such a list would never have been exhaustive. the existing legislation on cosmetics, food supplements, medical devices, to name just a few, is in place. they are legally valid, it is not a question of challenging them but of solving a very real problem. i have a request to make to the commission on this point and i would like the commission to make a commitment in this respect in order to increase legal certainty for operators: it would certainly be appropriate for your competent departments to bring together as soon as possible all the parties concerned, whom i have mentioned above. i think that would be particularly important to put people's minds at ease. thus, on the basis of these exchanges and in the light of the judgments already given by the court of justice of the european communities, a concerted and formal commitment on interpretation could emerge. i really hope that this proposal will be followed up, and i also expect the commission to make clear its commitment to the doha declaration. i know that this is also an essential point for many of my colleagues in the house. the authorisation of a medicinal product for human or veterinary use does not mean that the control of its efficacy and safety has come to an end. as such, strengthening pharmacovigilance has been one of our priorities. this has made it necessary to make changes to the existing arrangements. first, by creating the possibility of carrying out unannounced checks at the source of manufacture. secondly, by shortening the deadlines for the mandatory submission of periodic reports, also by setting up a system for the rapid exchange of data collected by all partners, by ensuring consistency of pharmacovigilance systems between member states. we also stressed the independence of pharmacovigilance and asked that the management of funds for these activities remain under the permanent control of the competent authorities. my colleagues and i also wanted to take the environmental aspect of the drug into account. this point was raised with the executive director of the medicines agency in london, who confirmed the validity of our approach. however, in no case should a marketing authorisation be refused on the basis of this criterion. we all know, for example, that chemotherapy products can cause harmful environmental releases, but we cannot imagine banning their authorization. that would be nonsense. the aim is to better assess this environmental risk and, for all classes of therapeutics, to take effective measures to reduce impacts. this is a very important point for our parliament. i also wanted to return to the question of information, and my colleagues supported me in this. it is our responsibility to deal with the problems that arise. it would have been easy to dismiss the subject, but that was not our position. we therefore ask the european commission to present a clear text on what is available in this area, to analyse the potential benefits and risks of this dissemination of information to patients, to consider the responsibility of the issuer and to submit proposals to us. however, i have some regrets about these reports. the most important concerns the scope of the directive and the council's refusal to introduce immediately the mandatory centralised procedure for all new active substances. on this point, parliament has been too european for the council. however, in the compromise, important pathologies were included in this scope and a revision clause in four years will strengthen this system and increase equal access to health for every european citizen. i congratulate my colleague, mrs müller, who negotiated this. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. it would seem to me inconsistent and even very dangerous that the professionals who will be appointed should have a similar level of expertise. it is the criterion of expertise, not nationality, that will guarantee the quality and effectiveness of scientific evaluation. we will be very vigilant on this point. the house also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. i am well aware of this, but progress has been made in the area of mutual recognition. this provision will ensure the development of this class of medicines. we must look at what is proposed and not just stick to what has not been agreed in the negotiations. this is an important perspective and shows that homeopathic medicines have not been neglected, nor have veterinary medicines been sacrificed. all the provisions i have mentioned above apply to all veterinary medicinal products. these directives are not, as i have heard, intended to impede social security systems, to favour one sector over another. on the contrary, they ensure the development of a high level of health protection. they promote access to products for all patients, and they encourage scientific research by addressing the vital growth of generic medicine. nor do they divide the current 15 member states or the enlargement countries. i hope that tomorrow, when we vote, we will be able to achieve this success for our three institutions in the field of human and animal health. i am confident that there is an agreement, a commitment by the majority of the political groups, and i dare not imagine that it will not be respected.
- mr president, we have been working successfully for two years on this matter of the revision of european legislation on medicines. so it is true that i had hoped for much more than this compromise package negotiated with the council and the commission which will be put to the vote tomorrow. in my view, this procedure for reviewing the procedures for authorising the placing on the european market of human and veterinary medicinal products should lead to a radical change in the criteria for evaluating and authorising medicinal products in the interests of patients, public health and healthcare professionals. the first aim of this review was to have all new substances recognised by the european agency. in reality, the centralised procedure will only cover a few diseases. the london agency has widened its scope of action sufficiently to secure its funding, but the national authorities have retained the most lucrative classes of medicines, namely those for neurodegenerative or cardiovascular diseases. the interests of the commission and the council are safe, but are they those of the patients? in the interests of patients, we have advanced pharmacovigilance and transparency in addition to braille, but it is true that some last-minute compromises by the council have subtly weakened these achievements. most drug evaluation documents should be publicly available, but what about pharmacovigilance reports? the public authorities responsible for issuing licences should be independent of firms but in fact remain under the yoke of private royalties. patients do not have the means to report drug side effects directly to the competent authorities and doctors are not obliged to do so. but a great victory: advertising for prescription drugs has been rejected, but for how long? in terms of public health, the environmental impact of new medicines should be assessed. this should not be the only evaluation criterion, but it should be taken into account in the benefit-risk balance of a medicinal product and therefore be part of the conditions for granting marketing authorisation. the environmental risk goes far beyond damage to nature, pollution linked to the release of toxic drug residues is a danger to human health. of course, therapies whose medical benefit outweighs the environmental risks must continue to be used. however, where effective alternatives exist, they should be promoted. unfortunately, the final wording of the amendments does not fully recognise the scale of the problem. as a doctor, i find that the evaluation of the effectiveness of medicines in comparison with others is sorely lacking in the new pharmaceutical package. the safety and quality of new substances is the only thing that matters. it does not matter whether they provide a significant clinical benefit or not. i tried to get the concept of therapeutic value added to be accepted in order to encourage firms to research truly innovative substances, but i met with opposition from all the institutions. i am sure, however, that this debate will come back to this house, because the pharmaceutical industry no longer wants to just put fake new treatments on the market and overprotect them for years. it is true that the major point of friction has been the authorisation of generic medicines. the pharmaceutical industry is trying to delay the sale of generic products, and that's normal. but this reaction was echoed by the commission and some colleagues, who restricted their definition, tightened the conditions for granting and extended the time limits by various tricks: switches, new indications, etc. despite the opposition of a majority of member states faced with the problem of financing their social security, european medicines will have the longest period of administrative data protection in the world. i also wonder whether these protections are compatible with the doha provisions requiring the manufacture of generics for export. this is certainly the major concern of this legislation for the financing of public health. finally, homeopathic medicines are another major disappointment. in fact, and in conclusion, i am pleased to admit that we have made considerable progress, but it is true that much remains to be done in the coming years.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to respond to some of the objections raised by my colleagues. first of all, i'm sorry to see behind me that mrs jackson has been gone for a long time. i would have answered him, what i will do, and i will also answer him in writing tomorrow morning. as far as the enlargement countries are concerned, we have taken care of that. this is part of the discussions we have had with the council and the commission so that account may be taken of the difficulties that some, but not all, of the enlargement countries may have in applying this pharmaceutical legislation. we also know that the commission has committed itself to proposing, once this legislative package has been adopted, derogations for certain enlargement countries. but i would like to say to mrs jackson that just this morning i received a letter from one of our fellow observers in the czech republic who says that he fully agrees with the idea of eight years plus two plus one, which he thinks is an acceptable compromise between the six years and the ten years plus one. it is fully aware of the importance of protecting industrial property while allowing generics to enter the internal market. here is a letter i put at the disposal of my colleagues. this is not the only one we have received in this area. i would also like to reply to my british and irish colleagues on the veterinary medicines problem. when i hear my colleague, mrs doyle, say that we have acted too quickly, too quickly, i find that rather regrettable, given the discussions we have had for months with the commission and the council, hours of discussion to arrive at a good compromise. so when it comes to animal safety, i think that we cannot afford to procrastinate on this matter either. when it comes to animals raised for food production, you will understand that safety is essential. it is essential for us, it is essential for the council. we had many discussions there too. my british colleagues said that separate legislation would have been needed. but we have separate legislation! i'd like you to look at the texts. we have two guidelines. today we are discussing two guidelines. one concerns medicinal products for human use and the other veterinary medicinal products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive on medicinal products for human use is implemented. i would therefore like you to look at the texts carefully before you speak, to avoid making such mistakes. when you refer to what is a specific british and irish feature - and i hope that it is not because of this feature that you will take the risk of not voting on this compromise - i would like to remind you that article 67 of the common position provides for derogations, medicinal product by medicinal product. so you already have the answer in the text. i would still like to see a little more good faith in these discussions. when you tell us that horses are not part of the diet in the united kingdom, we must not forget, and you know this very well, that when these horses are no longer useful in the united kingdom, they are exported to other member states and end up on the stalls of our butchers. for this reason, much greater safety is needed in the prescription of veterinary medicines. i would have much more to say, but i would like to conclude by stressing that we have reached compromises which were particularly difficult to obtain, that the italian presidency has made the necessary efforts to take account of a number of requests which it did not intend to take into account at the outset, and it would be particularly serious if you took the responsibility for not voting on these compromises. like my colleague mrs müller, i appeal to you to take responsibility and not to vote for amendments which are not part of the compromise. you'd be questioning those compromises. that would mean that there would be conciliation, mrs doyle, but it is not absolutely certain that it would produce the results we have achieved today. so tomorrow, please vote on the compromises and, above all, do not take the risk and responsibility of failing to achieve what we have achieved after weeks of work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it is with absolute humility that our group is now supporting what we could have done months ago if we had listened to the smaller groups. but history belongs to history, and the future belongs to all of us. that is why we feel it is very good that we have come to the situation we are in now. this means that on the one hand we want to make a fundamental decision that there are equal provisions for all parliamentarians, because we are doing the same work. if we decide to do so, we also decide to put an end to the opaque and, in my view, simply incorrect system of travel expenses. we must always make this clear. the common statute also decides to put an end to the absurd reimbursement of travel expenses. it is important to make this clear to the public. secondly, we are also making it clear that we have the intelligence to allow transitional arrangements so that the enlargement countries actually have time to enter into this common agreement. it would be absurd for a member of the european parliament to earn more than the prime minister of a country overnight. it's about opting in, not opting out, because we all have common statutes. when the member states' representatives enter, it must be decided by an intelligent arrangement in the council an opt-in. if we have that, then we have guaranteed statutes for the future. there are some members who are a little indignant because we have written that our retirement age begins at the end of the age of 63. i would have been right about 65 because we should be demanding from ourselves what we are demanding from society as a whole today, and not getting an extra allowance. i am therefore firmly against going below the number we have now adopted in this resolution. this would send the wrong signal to the public. in short: all's well that ends well! thank you to all who have worked with us. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, i would like to remind you once again, on behalf of my colleagues in the mpf delegation to the european parliament, that we are absolutely opposed to the payment of the main allowance of members of the european parliament from the community budget. under the treaty, meps are the representatives of their respective peoples and must therefore be paid by them. similarly, the currently lame compromise on taxation is not acceptable. the principle is simple and clear: members of the european parliament must be subject to the same taxes as their fellow citizens. if, unfortunately, the status under discussion today were to result - as one might fear - in increased parliamentary allowances and reduced income taxes, if, in addition, it gave the impression that meps were escaping the financial controls of their own country and becoming employees of the brussels entity, then, i tell you plainly, our fellow citizens would not accept that and that would be another terrible blow to the union's credibility. the governments must therefore resist the pressure of the federalists who want to detach the members of the european parliament from their respective countries, on the pretext of a principle of equality between members which does not exist anywhere in the treaties, and which is totally invented. we must strengthen the link between the member and his nation, to bring europe closer to the citizens. in summary, mr president, the main parliamentary allowance must be paid by the member's country of origin. income tax must be national. the compensation for costs must cover the actual costs. finally, as a compromise, it could be accepted that the daily allowance be regarded as supplementary income paid by the european institutions and subject to community taxation as such. this is the maximum acceptable for us.
- mr president, the situation in côte d'ivoire is deteriorating. we condemned the concept of "ivory", which tarnished the electoral legitimacy of laurent gbagbo, but we also condemned the military mutiny, which is unacceptable in a democracy. we were sceptical about the signing of the marcoussis peace agreement, which bore the marks of the dictate of the former colonial power. as expected, it was not viable and resulted in the resignation in september of rebel ministers from the government of national reconciliation. while some progress has been made in recent months, the resumption of fighting over the past fortnight has weakened the chances of reviving the peace process. today, the violence in the north, as in the "cocoa loop", the excesses of the so-called patriotic forces lead to the multiplication of violations of human rights. we ask that they stop as soon as possible and that the government and the rebel forces stop exploiting these demonstrations which are, in reality, nothing spontaneous. we demand that investigative procedures be put in place to punish those responsible for the abuses. we also strongly condemn the murder of the french journalist jean hélène and call for an international investigation to bring those responsible to justice. we call for the resumption of genuine negotiations to bring an end to the conflict. only by taking account of all the political forces in the country and the balance between them can a peaceful and democratic solution be found for the relaunch of the peace process, which can only be achieved through the disarmament of the militias and free general elections under international control. to do this, the structural causes - poverty, unequal distribution of wealth, social injustice, oppression of minorities and state disorganisation - must be tackled by the european union's prevention policy. at the same time, the union must adopt a coherent trade and development policy to provide aid to the african economies, and in particular to the people of this continent. in this context, we call on the commission not to extend the fisheries agreement with côte d'ivoire as long as the implementation of development cooperation under the cotonou agreements is suspended. finally, we will stress our commitment to respect for minorities, which is the essential basis for a peaceful settlement of these conflicts in africa.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. there are times when heads of state just go crazy! i think one of the tricks is to simply say: we want to lift the arms embargo on china. the arms embargo is a political pressure device, which means that there must be a political answer to the question of what has changed in china. tibet is still under chinese military occupation. taiwan is still threatened by china. human rights are still not respected in china. democracy is not in sight in china. you can do business with china. keep doing business with china! selling nuclear plants to china is foolish and harmful. but that is another matter, we must discuss it with the german chancellor. what i mean is that it would not only be wrong to say that you want to lift the arms embargo, but it would also be wrong to even say that there is any discussion at all at the moment about doing so. it simply means that we say to the chinese, "it's wonderful how you do this. keep arresting people for speaking their minds. we're not bothered by it at all. we're ready to do all kinds of business with you! secondly, there is another point: mr chirac and mr schröder - and these are really two heads of government whom i support in certain political situations, as in the case of the war in iraq. i have a terrible idea: did they buy china's partnership with such a strategy? it would be incredible if you thought you could buy putin safely by not saying anything about chechnya, and buy the chinese safely by supplying them with weapons, just so you have a common position in the security council. that would be terrible. i would like to conclude by saying that mr chirac and mr schröder have said that they want the constitution, that they want to be european, that they simply want to strengthen the european parliament. there you go. the council can only lift the arms embargo if parliament agrees. they should say so in a common code of conduct. that is to say, without the consent of parliament there can and must be no lifting of the arms embargo, and i am glad that all the groups do not want to lift this arms embargo at the moment. that's wonderful. (applause from the centre)
- mr president, thank you for giving me the floor now, because the three reports on which we are going to vote are really a package. with my colleague mrs müller we have managed to reach very good compromises, thanks to which we are making very important progress in pharmaceutical legislation. i would like to say, as mrs müller has just said, that it is essential that we vote on the compromises as they are presented and that we do not vote in favour of the amendments which have not been the subject of these compromises. any vote on an amendment which is not part of these compromises would call into question the compromises we have reached with the italian presidency. i would like to draw the attention of our colleagues to the fact that you vote for the compromises, but not for the other amendments which are not part of them.
in writing. - for the reasons of principle which i mentioned in my speech during the debate, i voted against the resolution of our assembly which again calls for a unified statute for members of the european parliament. i would add that the further we go in negotiating this status, the more difficulties we encounter, the more complexities we invent to solve these difficulties, and the more unsustainable the proposed system becomes. in particular, it is difficult to imagine how, in the name of a principle of equality between meps which does not exist, deep and very real inequalities could be created at the level of each country. how could the mep from a new member country, for example, be paid at a level twenty times that of a national mep? and how can such inequality be corrected? similar questions arise in the field of taxation: how can we imagine that a relatively well-paid mep pays income tax at a rate much lower than that of his fellow citizens? as i said in the debate, the dogmatic obstinacy of certain federalist members is creating a tangle which will be very damaging, once again, to the image of the european union.
in writing. - legislation on environmental liability is like opening pandora's box, since environmental damage is ill-defined and its scope of application is vague, particularly in the area of biodiversity, which is already governed by two major international conventions, those of berne and bonn. the repair should be limited to natura 2000 areas only and exclude non-profit-making activities such as leisure from professional activities. however, the directive does not distinguish between these two types of activity. for liability to apply, it must be based on objective and quantifiable criteria: the nature of the damage and its impact, the state of the environment at the time of the damage and, above all, local circumstances. the polluter pays principle must be effectively applied and not replaced by the taxpayer pays principle. the responsibility must include gmos and hydrocarbons, sensitive subjects, which are excluded from its scope. more generally, what is the point of recognising the european commission as having jurisdiction, when the criminalisation of environmental crime is a matter for judicial cooperation and other legal instruments such as the council of europe's lugano convention could be used?
in writing. - the grossetête report on the establishment of a community code relating to medicinal products for human use is intended, in essence, to protect the interests of the pharmaceutical industry. it is appalling that the profit-seeking interests of the big pharmaceutical companies should prevail in a field where public health should be the priority. the protection of the patent monopoly, which ensures the profits of this industry by driving up the prices of medicines, has the dramatic consequence of preventing hundreds of thousands of people from accessing medicines. we supported amendments to inform the public about the effects of medicines or to improve labelling, but we voted against amendments to protect the monopoly of pharmaceutical laboratories. in our view, public health and the interests of patients come before free trade and shareholder profit.
in writing. - we have just voted on the revision of the pharmaceutical legislation. the amended directive will make it possible to increase the degree of harmonisation of the rules governing medicinal products between the member states. it can increase the efficiency of the operation of centralised and decentralised procedures. but we want the member states to ensure that homeopathic medicines manufactured and marketed in the community are favoured. we voted for amendments which could solve some of the problems caused by the legal vacuum in which certain homeopathic medicines still exist. these medicines, used by more than 100 million europeans, not only do not cause side effects, but they also save money for health systems. we are absolutely keen to preserve homeopathic medicines which meet the demands of the citizens of our countries. we also spoke in favour of developing the european generic pharmaceutical industry, because if we want to preserve our social protection, we have to save money and generic medicines are part of that effort.
in writing. - the resolution on the commission's work programme for 2004 contains very strong passages, which i fully supported, on the eurostat case and its aftermath. no one can explain the commission's lack of reaction for such a long time. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new financial regulation, which will be published in the official journal of the european union. these imperatives are all the more urgent as other abuses are constantly being discovered, for example the offences initiated on the fixing of prices in the agricultural management committees, or more recently the 'blue dragon 2000' case concerning the use of community funds in catalonia. these deviations are not unrelated to the commission's general arrogance towards the member states. all this behaviour has a common cause: the commission believes that it alone holds a superior truth. unfortunately, the draft european constitution reinforces this idea, whereas it should clearly be made a subordinate body.
in writing. - while we can only agree with the condemnation of the concept of 'ivory' and the murders committed in its name, we did not vote for this report. on the one hand, it conceals the responsibility of successive french governments which, after a long period of colonial oppression, supported the dictatorship of houphouët-boigny, and then the authoritarian regime of his successor bédié, who invented the demagogy of "ivoirité" in his struggle against his rivals for power. and, even today, the french army on the ground protects the interests of french capital in côte d'ivoire, and not the population. moreover, what does 'restoring the authority of the state' mean if it does not offer the means to end 'poverty, unequal distribution of wealth, social injustice, violations of human rights, oppression of minorities ...', which the report itself sees as so many destabilising factors that have led to the current conflicts? as for the so-called peacekeeping forces, such as those of ecowas, the precedents of sierra leone and liberia have shown that they are generally only adding an armed band to those already fighting on the backs of the population. we have not voted in favour of a hypocritical text which would only relieve the european parliamentarians of their conscience.
in writing. - the joint resolution is paternalistic from the outset, stating that the conflict in côte d'ivoire "cannot be attributed to the ethnic factor alone"... which nevertheless enhances the said factor. but is it not the neoliberalisation of the ivorian economy, the fall in the price of raw materials and thus the impoverishment of the population, the open competition of the ivorian neo-colonial factions by transnational firms, which have fostered the receptivity of the discourse of "liberty", and the coups d'état? the joint resolution does not mention the need for the withdrawal of french troops as a peacekeeping force. however, the historical relationship of the french army and companies with the ivorian political class and the neighbouring states means that the french army and diplomacy cannot be considered in a neutral position. other actors should therefore be promoted. the linas-marcoussis framework is therefore flawed in many respects. the best policy for preventing conflicts is to eradicate them from their foundations, and in this case arsonists cannot be good firefighters. we must get out of a deeply anti-democratic neocolonial logic and move towards a different form of cooperation between europe and africa. i therefore abstained on a resolution which does not take these problems head on.
in writing. - once again, our parliament has just adopted a mediocre resolution on the ivory coast debacle, failing to distinguish between its causes and its essential and incidental aspects. the bottom line is that a set of ethnically based forces openly racist (intertribal, anti-white, anti-french) are squandering their legacy of stability and prosperity. the abuses committed in the past fortnight in abidjan by militiamen who claim to be 'patriots' against representatives of humanitarian ngos who are doing a remarkable job, particularly in the service of children and diplomatic representatives, are all the more scandalous and unacceptable because they are taking place with complete impunity and under the complacent eye of the police. the double-dealing of the government authorities must be clearly denounced. these demonstrations are not spontaneous. they are organized in secret by president gbagbo and his entourage, whose art of double-talk reaches the heights. the "young patriots" are armed, funded and exploited by a legitimate government that betrays its function. in the face of the scale of such abuses, france and the european union must urgently adopt a firm stance and establish a clear link between aid and respect for rights, unless they give the impression that they are complacent or complicit.
- madam commissioner, mr president, i would first like to pay tribute to our colleague, mrs sommer, for the quality of the work we have been able to carry out together - her attentiveness, her flexibility, even when we have had differences - and which should, i hope, lead us to have a very good text from the first reading, hoping and wishing that it is definitive. i think that this directive is ultimately very important, firstly because it is intended to make life easier for all those who are road transport professionals and who, of course, pay tolls and often need to change their payment system or method, but also because it is a directive that is very open to promises for the future, particularly as regards the establishment of the galileo system. we in the party of european socialists felt that this directive was initially a little rigid and very restrictive for the motorway sector. it asked the commission to ensure the interoperability of existing microwave systems very quickly, i.e. to invest very heavily in order to migrate very quickly, two years later. it was probably unacceptable to ask them to make such a double effort, and i am glad that we have got through amendment no 48 by mrs sommer, which strongly recommends galileo and recommends waiting for an interim report from the commission to determine under what conditions we will make this migration. however, we are very attached to the satellite tracking system and we see it as the future, not only for tolls but for a multitude of other services. secondly, we believe that we have given priority to the interoperability of systems, that is to say that most of the amendments we have tabled, whether it is the 11th, which we have tabled ourselves, or the 46th, which mrs sommer has tabled, have as their main objective not necessarily the uniqueness of the system, but the interoperability of systems, and we believe that in the short term this is what we must demand. in other words, it is also a question of ensuring that certain microwave systems can be interoperable with gps-gsm. we have also revised the timetable. i think that the timetable that the commission proposed to us was simply unrealistic, because it did not take into account the time needed for legislative work and we could not demand that the european telenovel system be brought into conformity as quickly as 1 january 2005. finally, as far as the european socialist party is concerned, we have proposed, at the request - which does not seem to me to be particularly socialist - of the city of london - very attentive to this debate - to restrict the scope of application a little and to provide at least for a transitional phase for local toll systems. the city has just put its system in place. it is a very promising experiment and i think we should not push it too hard. on the other hand, we are strongly opposed - perhaps this is an exaggeration - to the amendments tabled by our italian colleagues - amendments nos 19, 23, 26, 27, 29 - which propose a system of contractual rules rather than a european toll service. we think that a european toll service is needed. it is legally clearer, more stable, simpler, more readable. we shall therefore be opposing these proposals from our italian colleagues. on the other hand, we will be voting in favour of amendment no 39 on the protection of privacy, as soon as we consider a migration to galileo. we believe that these precautions are not in vain. finally, we will approve and support amendment no 40 by our green colleagues, because we believe that a toll cannot simply be an additional tax or taxation. nor can a toll be simply a means of cushioning the road infrastructure. a toll must also be a tool of transport policy and must be able to guarantee modal shift and cross-financing to other alternative modes of transport for the future.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, road tolls are never popular, especially if you have to pay them yourself, but they are a fact of life in europe today. they are necessary. the question is only how we can minimize the harm and the cost of them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the public authorities. it is clear that to avoid problems they must be harmonized. the excellent objective of this commission proposal is that each individual should have only one contract and that each vehicle should have only one device, so that the internal market would work well. this is just plain common sense. i agree with mrs sommer that interoperability is the goal, not the means to achieve it. i would disagree with the commission a little: i think we need more room for manoeuvre for local authorities, because this will prevent the already good and functioning systems from being scrapped simply because we are moving too quickly to a satellite system. the objective is to ensure that the systems work well together, not to determine whether they operate on microwaves or on some other wavelength. it is therefore sufficient to lay down general requirements to achieve the basic objective of the directive, namely the interoperability of systems. it's the key. a dynamic europe needs road transport. a prosperous europe needs mobility. as good as it is that we are standardising these systems, we must also be careful to ensure that costs are kept within reasonable limits and that we do not voluntarily take the straitjacket.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, points in life are generally good things, but unfortunately these points are contradictory. our esteemed colleague mr swoboda has just said that austria wants more. i have all my sympathies with the austrians, but, my friends, we are not in vienna, we are not in the austrian parliament, we are in the european parliament! can we ask ourselves the question: does europe want more? of course i'm going to. if i had been born in an austrian valley, the problem would look exactly as you see it. but if we look at the whole of europe, goods still move between southern europe and northern europe. if they don't take the direct route, if they don't take the cheapest route, they'll find their way some other way. total distances are getting longer, roads are getting more expensive, total pollution is increasing. we must accept that within the eu we must stick to common rules, although it is trendy - i fully understand that - to hide protectionism behind eco-points, but we must see the forest for the trees. we must, as the famous english saying goes, see the bigger picture, because if we make transport in europe expensive, so that total pollution increases, who will pay for it? it is always paid by the final consumer, the european who earns a thousand euros a month. what would be the solution? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we know that in practice their capacity is not sufficient, but we are doing our best. we would need tax breaks to get into the most modern trucks, but it is not right to be a soloist when we are building a common europe. we must see that the overall benefit is the benefit of the individual european.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the conciliation committee and mr lisi on the agreement we have reached. i hope that this regulation will encourage airlines and tour operators to reduce their usual practices. i also welcome the reference in the regulation to sanctions, which must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. as such, air passengers must receive compensation, re-routing and assistance appropriate to the inconvenience suffered, and this as soon as possible, which is not always the case. the extension of air passenger rights to all types of flights is good news: passengers on scheduled flights - representing only half the market - and non-scheduled flights - including package travel - will be able to claim their rights in the same way. as stated in the white paper on european transport policy for 2010, the commission's objective is to refocus transport policy on the requirements and needs of citizens. we're counting on it. the inconveniences caused by denied boarding - stress, fatigue, humiliation - can have serious consequences for the people concerned: loss of business, inability to attend funerals, etc. members of this parliament, who frequently travel by air between brussels, strasbourg and their region, are particularly aware of the inconvenience and the loss of time involved. as vice-president of the intergroup on disability, i am also pleased that article 11 mentions the priority care of people with reduced mobility. however, this list could be extended to include persons travelling with small children. as regards exemptions for strike action, the required advance notice should enable the companies to react in advance and to remain subject to the constraints of this regulation. i also welcome the provision on the obligation to inform passengers of their rights by means of a notice displayed in clearly legible characters in the check-in area, with particular and more explicit attention than that defined in the regulation for the information, by appropriate means, of visually impaired or visually impaired persons. such a system of passenger protection should be extended to other modes of transport. in conclusion, it is essential that air operators work upstream to provide a quality service to their passengers, so that these inconveniences do not happen again. i hope that members of this house will support this agreement, which is intended to respect the rights of users, so that such practices are as rare as possible.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with mr watts that we deserve more than a biscuit and a glass of water. i've been on an average of maybe twice a week in an airplane around the world for the last 30 years, maybe more than many people in this room. as a general rule, i cannot agree with the view of many colleagues that air passengers are treated badly. we deserve our rights, but do we have to stuff every christmas present we can think of into this package? because, my friends, how do airlines operate? they're funded by money we get from the passengers. would it not be better to solve these problems through increased competition, the dismantling of monopolies and less regulation? we are not going to provide better services to passengers by increasing legislation and burdening airlines, because the system is still working very well in the countries where it is applied. my friends, we live in an open world and this will only be a competitive advantage for third countries. the european consumer deserves as many options and cheap tickets as possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would say that if the british airways flight is from tokyo to helsinki and finnair is continuing to oulu and this continuing flight is cancelled because of bad weather, it would be unreasonable for finnair to have to pay for the whole ticket. i am very much of the opinion that air passenger rights must be protected, but air passengers and airlines go hand in hand and their interests cannot be separated in the end. at the end of the runway, we're easily greeted by rising ticket prices.
- mr president, madam commissioner, we shall naturally vote for this regulation. we believe that we have reached a text which is fairly well balanced in relation to an initial proposal which we felt presented a number of dangers. clearly, the right of the passengers is a sacred right. however, airlines often treat it very lightly, whether in terms of handling or passenger information. it is also clear that the practice of over-reservation has, in many cases, shown its limits and is being used as a commercial tool. we have even seen planes that did not take off because they were not full, which is absolutely unacceptable for someone who signed a contract of sale or purchase in the context of obtaining a ticket. i think that the text we have produced is overall balanced. on the one hand, it seeks to ensure that the practice of over-reservation is not a purely commercial practice but is limited to a practice of flexibility. overbooking, we know that it will never be reduced to zero in airlines, because that's how they handle overweight people. there are a number of us in this room who fly very often. however, many of us also take advantage of overbooking practices when we arrive late or when things go wrong and there are traffic jams to access the airport. i therefore believe that it is important not to make demagoguery in this respect. secondly, the compensation system must be fair and equitable, not too complicated to avoid endless litigation and, above all, not an incentive for airlines to take safety risks. we must not go too far and say that airlines will not say: i will leave at any cost, even if i have a technical incident, because it will cost me too much to compensate passengers. i hope that we have reached that balance in the context of this report. i wish i could, but i'm not sure. we will, however, give him our support.
- mr president, the greens consider decentralized cooperation to be an essential element of cooperation and development policy. this is one of the only components that guarantees the real use of funds by the people of the south. mr zimmerling's report is moving in the right direction. it provides a genuine instrument for ensuring citizen participation in developing countries. the howitt report already offered some interesting ideas, and this new report is intended to improve cooperation with non-state actors. we welcome the development of the list of potential partners. it is particularly important for us to take account of the organisations of indigenous peoples. these are often minorities and suffer from the opposition of the public authorities, who are usually representatives of authoritarian forces. however, as far as the actors are concerned, the question of the churches is a problem. while it seems obvious to everyone that charitable associations, including religious ones, can benefit from funds for decentralised cooperation, it seems inconceivable to me that the european union should finance this title for churches, whose purpose is by definition proselytism. are we going to finance catholic churches or protestant temples in muslim countries or the construction of mosques in christian countries? we have discussed this with the rapporteur, who seems to me to have understood the problem. the maintenance of this view before the vote in committee might have been seen as an oversight. but now, after the committee on development has overwhelmingly rejected this word, its reintroduction by the council presidency, which has used a text from the treaty of amsterdam - stripped of its philosophical elements - leaves me puzzled as to the ultimate purpose of this text. in the absence of clarification on this point, we would not be able to vote on this report. i therefore strongly urge my colleagues to return to the amendment voted in committee, which is limited to charitable organisations. it is essential that the widest possible representation of civil society be heard and be able to use funding independent of their state authorities, in order to strengthen as much as possible the independence of social movements fighting for sustainable development, human and social rights, democratisation or cultural pluralism. that is why we are asking for the financial envelope to be increased to 18.36 million. we believe that this is essential if all the social partners are to take part in the debate. it is not enough to have a good policy, but also to have the financial means to do so.
- mr president, given the scale of the various problems posed by gmos, on which no obvious scientific conclusion is necessary, the question of the coexistence of the gmo and non-gmo sectors must be considered in a sustainable way and not as a transitional situation to be managed while waiting for the gmo sector to become the dominant or even exclusive sector. it is traditional and organic farming that is the common law and gmos the exception under observation, not the other way around. the question is not whether non-gmo sectors are feasible, but how to prevent the gmo sectors from contaminating the other sectors. the rapporteur is right to point out that we have a proven lack of knowledge in a number of crucial areas, which should encourage us to continue our research but also to be very cautious. these are allofertilisation, seed winter storage, soil concentration, resistance, diffusion and dissemination. we must be very careful that the provisions adopted on authorization, traceability and labelling are not bypassed by provisions which are too vague, uncertain or unclear on coexistence, thus creating a fait accompli which would sweep away all these precautionary measures. we must be careful not to put our farmers in the position of apprentice sorcerers to whom public opinion would inevitably attribute the negative consequences of the widespread dissemination of gmos. they had a big breakfast with the animal flours and the gaucho. so let us not make the maintenance of traditional production so complex that farmers are forced to abandon them in favour of gmos. the person who introduces a risk culture bears all the consequences of this risk. it is the one who takes the risk of contamination who must bear the costs of prevention and management of this risk vis-à-vis the other crops and their users and assume sole responsibility for it. the question of controlling the cohabitation of the sectors will become a central question of spatial planning. specific guidelines must be freely chosen at national or regional level. if, for example, elected representatives, farmers and other local actors in a territory want it to be free of gmos, they must be able to decide freely, without the commission being able to impede this in the name of some more or less imaginary distortion of competition. we shall therefore vote in favour of this own-initiative report, which asks the right questions on a vital social issue.
- mr president, commissioner, an initiative for a world summit on the information society is a good initiative. the information society means freedom, freedom of information, freedom of the flow of information, and this is where we have a problem: a free information society that meets in tunis to talk about the freedom of the information society is like sending a very young child to a lion cage to learn to eat there. it is important to know that in tunisia, they arrest cybernauts, that in tunisia, they imprison those who use the internet, who use the information society for the freedom it offers. so we are going to participate in a second world summit in tunisia, but it is likely that by the time we arrive, mr ben ali will have imprisoned another two to three hundred cyber-netizens to protect the information society from those who use the freedom it offers. i think that, really, if we do not protest - we, that is to say the un in this case, and the european union - it will be a sign that we are going in the wrong direction. so why don't we go to china? they're also jailing all the cybernauts! we sell arms to the chinese and, while we're at it, we're going to hold a big international convention on freedom of information in china. why not? why not? let's be logical with ourselves. we will make the trip directly from tunisia to china, where we will shout to the people: "eat and be silent, but above all do not use freedom of information, that is why we want to have a big meeting in your home!". moreover, this event, organised on the initiative of the un, is marked by the repression exercised by some states against ngos. this is the case, for example, of reporters without borders, an organisation that fights for freedom of information. following a request from iran, signed by a bunch of countries, reporters without borders was excluded from the ngos recognized by the un. so you can see that it is not enough to take a laudable initiative for freedom and the information society. you also have to be consistent. the european parliament fought for, for example, a directive on the patentability of software which was radically different from the directive proposed by the commission. we know what it means to fight for the defence of intellectual property and if we want to be consistent in this process of organising the information society, we must fight for freedom and protection of intellectual property. this means that when you organize something like the geneva summit, it cannot be reduced to a big market to allow microsoft or others to take over new markets around the world. the freedom of the information society does not mean that microsoft is above everything. this can't work. in this respect too, we must take advantage of the framework offered by a multilateral organization to develop rules which ensure equality before the market and within the market. in conclusion, mr president, madam commissioner, the european union must not simply be present at events of this kind: it must also intervene. but where we are silent, where we cannot find the words, is when it comes to defending the freedom of the information society. the information society is not just a market. the information society is also the organisation of democracy and freedom.
in writing. - the budget presented - like the present european policies with which i do not agree - is a budget which perfectly illustrates the reasons for the crisis in which europe finds itself today, so naturally i voted against it. this is in no way a challenge to the work done by the colleagues in the committee on budgets.
in writing. - the budget for the common agricultural policy is a budget in disguise. half of the increase in gross value added was due to the substantial increase in rural development spending. but european agriculture should not need this caution. she should be able to live off the sale of her products. quality products should be strongly encouraged: what is €500 000 to explore the possibilities of creating european quality labels? why was aid to young farmers finally cut from the initial draft budget, when these young people are the future of our agriculture? the share of the agricultural budget in the european budget has been steadily declining for years. the european union is not using all its room for manoeuvre to finance a genuine agricultural policy that would meet the new challenge of enlargement. that is why my group and i will vote against this report.
in writing. - the edd/cpnt delegation regrets, as my colleague véronique mathieu has rightly pointed out, that the cap budget does not meet the needs of the agricultural world, and this is in the interest of all the people to be offered quality production only in terms of territorial planning. the funds allocated to structural measures are being misused or under-used and confirm the shortcomings and defects of this policy, which is being framed by brussels. these phenomena are aggravated by ill-conceived enlargement which will penalise the present member states without meeting the needs of the new member states. at the same time, the expenditure on the running of the bureaucracy (staff and property) is rising sharply. moreover, the 2004 financial year once again demonstrates that a number of associations and organisations, in line with the commission's views on the future of the european union or more specifically on the prospects for a policy such as that of the environment, are benefiting from appropriations of their own or from certain programmes designed for that purpose. these practices are not immune to slippage and every extra euro from the european budget is likely to become a source of concern for the committee on budgetary control. for all these reasons, the 2004 budget does not meet the priorities of the edd/cpnt meps, who were in fact opposed to it when voting.
in writing. - the title of the report is explicit: 'report on future needs for external action'. this is already the third budget line with disappointing results. asking for more money, in an already difficult budgetary context for our states, is tantamount to sacrificing other policies and sectors of activity, which parliament is careful not to identify. this attitude is not responsible. it is all the less so because, in matters of foreign policy, the european union does not exist politically and remains condemned to reconcile the positions of the member states, some of which openly express unwavering solidarity with the american positions, for example... the answers are therefore highly political and belong to the states. they cannot come from the creation of a european foreign ministry, even with significant financial resources, as the house seems to believe. the edd/cpnt delegation, in opposing this report, recalls that foreign policy, more than any other, cannot be achieved by means of harmonization based on averages, nor can it be built with millions of dollars at our disposal.
in writing. - the issue of the nuisance of lorries passing through austria is significant because of the absence of policy from the european institutions, replaced by "small-scale" measures. the european institutions, like the national states, are unable to develop a long-term strategy for the transport of goods by favouring railways in particular. the result is that the development of intra-european trade is causing increasing disadvantages for transit countries such as austria. instead of tackling the problem head-on, a complicated system of eco-points, quotas and administrative penalties is being set up. we voted against this text and we would like to stress that the introduction of this system only fuels the conciliation and bargaining, but it does not in any way put an end to the harm to the population and the environment.
in writing. - we voted for this report at the previous reading. it proposed to increase considerably the guarantees offered to air transport users, even if, as we have already pointed out, it sought to protect the interests of airlines. but, as conciliations and other adjustments have been made, this text has continually reduced the advantages granted to passengers in favour of the airlines. of course, these have not disappeared completely, and it is only to avoid hindering this that we do not vote against this report. but, not wishing to endorse the successive retreats of this text in the face of the interests of the airlines, we chose to abstain on the final vote.
in writing. - of course, no one can argue against energy saving or renewable energy. but, in order to promote what could be progress, the report also emphasises the opening up of the sector to competition and the securing of private investors. all this to ask the states and the public electricity distribution service to bear the additional costs of implementing new technologies. this is in anticipation of their being completely privatized, if the operation becomes profitable from the point of view of the capitalists. we are in favour of progress in this area as in others, but we have refrained from doing so.
in writing. - the resolution adopted by the european parliament on the results of the brussels council and the (final or provisional) blocking of the european constitution once again calls into question the working methods of the intergovernmental conferences and praises the "effectiveness of the european convention". however, it must be remembered once again that the convention proposed a supranational constitution by internal agreement of the federalist microcosm, but that this cannot be called "effective" since this agreement did not correspond to the will of all the states, nor probably to that of the peoples. for, let us not forget, if the french presidency preferred to make the negotiations fail under the fallacious pretext of "no agreement rather than a bad agreement", it was mainly because it feared being confronted with a negative referendum (despite the torrents of propaganda and biased polls, which claimed, and still claim, that the peoples called for supranational europe). the european parliament resolution is right on one point, however: it is astonishing that a week after the brussels council, it is still not possible to know exactly what governments agreed on and what they disagreed on.
in writing. - unlike a majority of meps, i cannot regret the failure of silvio berlusconi and the council on the igc and the draft european constitution. although the reasons for this failure are not the same as those for which i would have personally rejected the project presented by valéry giscard d'estaing, i believe that the current crisis can only be a positive one. i hope it will make people aware that europe needs a new project and a new social and civic spirit for a different europe.
in writing. - the intergovernmental conference (igc) ended with a failure on the constitution. but who will complain about the lack of agreement on a text that constitutionalizes liberalism and militarism? certainly not the citizens of europe who, with the convention, had been excluded from the start of the constituent process. certainly not the social and trade union movements which the eurocrats have manipulated from the beginning to finally disregard their additions to social and democratic rights. the igc's failure is not the result of differences over the european project but of a dark history of qualified majority voting. it's incomprehensible and ridiculous! we need a break. political europe must be built, but it cannot be built without and against the citizens. we should start by redefining the european project in a way that breaks with the dictatorship of the markets. this europe should be the so-called social and democratic europe. priority should be given to democracy, social rights, public services and peace. this is the other europe that we drew up with others at the european social forum in paris. because we are for this other europe, we reject this joint resolution put forward by the conservatives, the liberals, the social democrats and the greens.
in writing. - who could seriously have imagined that the european council would accept without amendment - as the parliament's oukases demanded - the draft "european constitution" prepared by the convention? no one did. yet, blinded by their utopias of another age, the federalists do not question themselves at all! in the spirit of the sad lyssenko, they are even looking for culprits who might take responsibility for the igc's failure! as the first budgetary reprisals against the imposters show, the enraged conventionalists now want heads to fall! the cause of this fiasco is not the italian presidency or the attitude of certain states - which have courageously defended their interests - but simply this convention and its convoluted constitution! this project was condemned in advance because it is radically contrary to the european political reality which remains fundamentally determined by the existence of peoples and nations. by refusing a federal distribution of power, spain and poland have done europe a great service. these two countries have finally said out loud what many others are saying in the background, namely that the old europe of jean monnet, inherited from the division of yalta, is obsolete.
in writing. - after its passage before the heads of state and government, the giscard project proved to be a dead end. the cpnt delegation within the edd group hopes that the time of the peoples and democracy has come. the proximity of the elections and the strong pressure on the draft constitution by referendum were decisive for the outcome of the brussels european council. the delegation welcomes the fact that the heads of state's calculation or wisdom has shaken the confidence in the face of the risk of popular rejection in many states, a rejection that would not have been limited to the question of the weighting of votes for spain or poland, but would also have reached the heart of the project. as the cpnt party had pointed out at the opening of the discussions, neither the giscard project nor any last-minute improvisation could allow for good policies in a democratic way. the european council of 12 december 2003 put an end to a long drift. the next six months should be an opportunity to listen carefully to citizens. the cpnt delegation within the edd group therefore did not share the majority's opinion and voted against the joint resolution.
in writing. - we voted against the whole text and the amendments. we are against all forms of granting, which is discrimination by means of money and, moreover, only serves to fatten up the concession companies and the giants of the btp.
in writing. - i voted against the sommer report because the proposal to set up a european telenetwork system goes too far. the white paper's objective of tackling road congestion could be achieved by other means. european telephony is not a priority in this area. for example, it would be more sensible to reduce heavy goods traffic by encouraging the use of rail. the adaptation of member states' infrastructures for the establishment of such a system would entail disproportionate costs which would again be passed on to users. the current toll systems work relatively well and there is no urgency to implement such a system. in the name of the principle of subsidiarity, the choice of a particular toll system and the appropriate technology should be left to the discretion of the member states.
in writing. - the european council, held in brussels on 12 and 13 december, marked the end of the last full presidency before the european elections and opened a period of 'end of mandate' for parliament and the commission. the end of this mandate was marked by a shortness of breath among the institutions, with the blocking of the constitutional draft - see, in this connection, my explanation of vote on the igc results - the commission's inability to take back control after being shaken by successive scandals - see, in this connection, my explanation of vote on the commission's 2004 work programme - but also with two very revealing conclusions of the brussels council. first, the decision to announce a major programme of work, called 'fast-start', without any understanding of how it will be financed. secondly, there is concern about the almost total lack of follow-up by the member states to the lisbon strategy, which was originally designed to strengthen the competitiveness of the european economy. the impression is that the european system is running at a dead end, with the member states having little more than display objectives. is it not an inevitable return to the stick, the result of an excessive will to do everything, to dominate everything?
in writing. - this joint resolution is a mixture of "good feelings", hypocritical in terms of human rights, and the usual diplomatic and commercial cynicism of the great powers. does china not respect human rights? no, of course, like the dozens and dozens of states and despicable dictatorships to which the european union has sold, sells and will sell arms, to oppress their peoples or to take it out on their neighbours and to fatten the western gun dealers. from saddam hussein's iraq, armed by france, britain, germany, russia and the united states, to israel, to the dictatorships of latin america, asia, africa and elsewhere, no embargo has ever stopped arms companies, especially european ones. they are all the more able to circumvent such embargoes - in china as elsewhere - because they have the active complicity of european governments.
in writing. - i fully support the conclusions of the graefe zu baringdorf report and those of my colleague, mr souchet, in his speech yesterday on the coexistence of gm and non-gm crops. this is a major problem, which cannot be ignored by immediately granting authorisations for the cultivation and marketing of gmos, as the commission would have wished. the risks of contamination of traditional crops, which 70% of consumers want to preserve at least, should be carefully studied first. the second is to establish (if possible) prudent coexistence rules, and to place the responsibilities and costs of introducing gmos on the businesses that have been granted authorisations. finally, provision should be made for financial guarantees to cover these liabilities. but none of this is clear today. it is therefore disgusting to see the commission ready to give authorisations, using the pretext of subsidiarity to place on the states the almost impossible task of establishing the rules of coexistence, and at the same time prohibiting those states from declaring certain regional areas free of gmos (commission decision of 2 september 2003 v austria). this matter is being handled with intolerable contempt for the citizens.
in writing. - the rapporteur proposes a strict separation between traditional crops and gm crops. he is very biased, since he himself practices what is known as organic farming. nevertheless, the separation he proposes has at least the advantage of leaving choice to consumers. there is no need to share its anti-scientific attitude, which consists in making science say what it does not say, in order to approve a delimitation which allows a field of experimentation and verification to be reserved for research in the gmo sector, while taking care not to mix the sectors. the precautionary principle applies not so much to researchers as to the large capitalist groups - in this case, the seed companies and the agri-food giants - for whom scientific advances are a means of increasing their profits. where profit is the priority, irresponsibility is always the one that risks prevailing, with disastrous consequences for humans and nature.
in writing. - i am pleased with the positive reception given by parliament to the graefe zu baringdorf report, but surprised by the vote of members, particularly french ones, in favour of the dissemination of new varieties of gmos before the establishment of binding rules on coexistence. it is true that the ambition of seed companies which have invested heavily in research and development of genetically modified varieties is very logical to obtain the maximum return on investment as soon as possible. they therefore naturally tend to support the idea that a new generation of seeds will inevitably become widespread and will quickly replace improved seeds without genetic modification, as if it were a phenomenon analogous to the replacement of mechanical traction by animal traction. such a shift towards the standardization of seeds - all-gmo - and the corresponding disappearance of traditional and organic production channels would call into question the agricultural diversity of our european territories and therefore the specificity of the products derived from them. the fight for agricultural diversity, for the effective and sustainable plurality of sectors, is therefore an integral and essential part of the fight for cultural diversity.
the commission is therefore proposing that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the south of france. my colleague, michel barnier, was unfortunately unable to come to strasbourg today. as you know, the question of natural disasters was discussed at length here on 1 september, after a hot summer. the commission has been actively working on the issue of natural disasters in recent years, in close cooperation with the european parliament. in the face of disasters that seem to be accelerating, two key words underpin the commission's actions: reparation and prevention. when it comes to reparations, it is a question of solidarity. following the floods in austria, the czech republic and germany in the summer of 2002, the commission, at the initiative of mr barnier, proposed the creation of the solidarity fund. thanks to the support of your assembly and the council, this new instrument has now been in operation for a year and has been called upon 14 times since its creation; it has been effective in eight cases. at present, the commission does not yet have sufficient information on the recent floods in southern france to be able to say whether the fund can be mobilised. in any event, we can only act on the official request of the french national authorities. if we receive a request, we will examine it as soon as possible. be assured that we will take account of the situation in the south of france in the evaluation we will make at the conference organised by the european commission on 5 march 2004. the purpose of this conference is to take stock of the use of the solidarity fund by several regions of europe. i should also point out that the regions of languedoc-roussillon and paca already receive substantial assistance from the european union under objective 2 of the structural funds. for the period 2000-06, this aid amounts to eur 316 million for languedoc-roussillon and eur 340 million for the paca region. during the floods that affected these regions in september 2002, specific measures were taken to compensate for the losses suffered. the mid-term review provides an opportunity to re-emphasise preventive or remedial actions. in the likely event that the regions concerned benefit from the allocation of the performance reserve and in the event of a good performance of the programmes in question, this could represent an additional approximately 4% of their allocation, i.e. eur 10.8 million for languedoc-roussillon and eur 12.3 million for the paca region. the french government will propose the allocation to the commission before 31 december next. important measures in the context of regional development may be financed. let me now turn to the second keyword: we must not only fix things, we must also give priority to prevention. these natural disasters raise the fundamental question of climate change and prevention for which research is needed. you can be assured of my commitment, and that of mrs wallström and the commission as a whole, in this area. as michel barnier recently told your committee on regional policy, he intends to propose the inclusion of a heading on 'natural hazard prevention' in each structural fund programme for the next programming period. in the same vein, the third report on economic and social cohesion, which will be adopted by the commission early next year, will propose that risk prevention be part of the objectives of the structural funds in the next programming period, beyond 2006. in addition, the commission is considering strengthening european civil protection coordination, including through the creation of a joint european civil protection force, an idea to which michel barnier is particularly attached and on which he is working closely with ms wallström. this new initiative, which is due to start early next year, should build on existing structures by equipping them with the necessary means to respond quickly and promptly to any type of disaster.
- mr president, commissioner, flooded streets, mud-covered houses, deteriorating networks, desperate populations: are we destined to become accustomed to these images of disasters which unfortunately recur every year? we are concerned about the severity of these floods, which unfortunately are recurrent. i would like to express our deep sympathy to all the victims, but also our gratitude to the civil security services and volunteers who have shown extraordinary dedication. the good coordination of the rescue services and european mutual aid, which has been able to make a real difference, can only be welcomed. our parliament has been very active in this area in calling for this mutual assistance to be put in place. once again, in this house, we must intervene in these natural disasters, the consequences of which could be better controlled. temporary shutdown, immediate restoration of the networks, temporary relocation, all this is just repair. it is well known that the cost of repair is much higher than the cost of prevention. prevention requires political courage and requires control of urban planning and coherent spatial planning. prevention is cheaper than repair, but you still have to be able to demand resources. it is true that at european level - as you reminded us, commissioner - the use of the structural funds is one of the good solutions for rebuilding dikes, strengthening them, simply maintaining watercourses, creating reservoirs. this structural fund policy has two limitations, however. the first is that the structural funds currently comply with the zoning rule and therefore do not place all victims on an equal footing. the second is that the amount of these funds is sometimes not sufficient. i would like to take my own region, the rhône-alpes region, as an example, which unfortunately is not mentioned today, although it was hit hard along with the provence-alpes-côte d'azur region and languedoc-roussillon. it has been in disaster recently, but will no longer be able to use the structural funds for the period 2003-06: everything has been spent. i am addressing my colleagues in this house who are sometimes tempted to cut or reduce the budget for regional policy. i say to them, beware, do not be deceived. these are the funds that most closely touch our fellow citizens, those that reflect the european solidarity which is the foundation of the union. we must all support commissioner barnier in his proposal to overhaul the structural funds. commissioner, you told us yourself. in future, these funds should no longer be based on zoning but should correspond to specific objectives, one of which would be environmental and risk prevention. in the face of the changes taking place on our planet, we need collective courage to meet these ecological challenges. i hope that the commission as a whole will follow commissioner barnier's proposals and that our parliament will be able to vote on the budget for the structural funds. in the meantime, we must make amends for the families who were killed. europe had already set up a solidarity fund for regions and states affected by natural disasters. it must also pool prevention technologies, building on successful experiences, such as in the netherlands, and setting up cross-border cooperation. i hope, mr president, commissioner, that we will not have any more debates on these natural disasters in the future.
- mr president, commissioner, my colleague has just said that she really wishes that in the future we would not have to add our tears to the waters that regularly devastate our regions. i'm not as optimistic as she is. i am much less optimistic, because i know very well that it was a wish you were making, mrs grossetête. however, we cannot be satisfied with wishful thinking when we see the climate change that is taking place on our planet. i was in my region of languedoc a few days ago and i was told that what we are experiencing now has never been seen before in the world. we've now met him three times in two years. so you can see that there is a change in frequency, amplitude and scale. i am always surprised to see the authorities, not just in my country, it would be too easy, but in all the countries that have been affected, running a little bit after the disaster. this summer, in the affected areas of southeastern france, people were already piling up sandbags. how come the locals knew, and the authorities rushed after the disaster? it is clear that there is a gap between those who are on the ground and who are suffering the destruction and the decision-makers, who are obviously still far away. the climate changes, with heat waves, storms and sudden rises in water. i don't feel that public policies change at the same rate. i think we would need to take a whole arsenal of measures to deal with this, including taxation. how many times have we in this house, the greens and the regionalists, said that we must certainly use the tax weapon to change behaviour that is dangerous for the climate? and we are still waiting for this tax on pollution, this tax on emissions that are changing the atmosphere of our planet and that are ultimately destroying entire regions. aid is evolving. i understand, commissioner, that we have actually been implementing, step by step, disaster by disaster, financial elements for repair and prevention. my colleagues used to say that repairing is good, but preventing is better. however, prevention - and i agree with them on this point - is not conceivable without a thoroughgoing reform of the structural funds. as long as there's zoning, it's not going to work. understand that storms and floods often ignore the areas we have wisely marked off the ground, on a map, in brussels or elsewhere. it is therefore obvious that these funds must be reformed and perhaps all those structural funds which are not being used on the ground, but are being reimbursed to the community and then to the national budgets, could be better used for prevention in order to cope with this climate. in conclusion, i would say that these problems have clearly changed in frequency and scale. i do not feel that european public policies, even though they are changing - i take note of this and welcome it - are changing with the same speed and the same scale, and i regret it.
- mr president, commissioner, i would like to pay tribute to the victims, their families, those who have lost everything, and to the extraordinary work done in the rescue operations by the men and women who are municipal employees, firefighters, gendarmes, police, military personnel and volunteers. the provisional balance of this disaster is particularly important: thirty departments were affected, eight of them severely, in particular the bouches-du-rhône, the vaucluse and the gard. as for the population, seven people died, 32,500 were displaced or moved to safety. one may wonder about the origin and frequency of these tragedies. some people will talk about global warming, the collision between the warm air masses coming from the mediterranean and the cold air masses stationed in my house in roussillon. but what can we do? others will speak of the urban madness of man's desire to build more and more, to the detriment of the rural world and its indifferent population. however, these storms were considered exceptional by forecasters due to a combination of several factors: their duration - almost four days - their geographical extent and their intensity. i would like to emphasise the inadmissible administrative inertia of the public authorities in the face of the revelations of the november 2002 report produced by the lyon technical assistance office. the report had made a comprehensive diagnosis of the river's dangers and recommended a series of measures to limit the damage of possible floods. however, this study, which involved many people and cost €3.5 million, remained a dead letter and did not raise the concern of the authorities concerned, at least in due time. once again, these bad weather conditions have demonstrated the passivity of man in the face of disasters that have cost, let us recall, the lives of seven people. the strong signal given over a year ago, which stressed the urgent need for a harmonious development of rural areas taking into account the whole territory and its inhabitants, was ignored. the french government has allocated €24 million to repair the rhône delta dams, which have been damaged in several places by flooding. but on the ground, this amount is already insufficient. i hope that the european union solidarity fund, set up in the wake of the devastating floods of august 2002, will complement the swift and fair compensation of victims at european level, so that they can return to a normal life. but for how long? some of them are on their third disaster declaration and third cleanup in a few months. i welcome with interest the lines laid down by the commissioner, and in particular the one on the use of the structural funds, but i agree with the remarks of my colleagues, mrs grossetête and mr onesta, as regards their limits. of course, the damage must be repaired, but should we not immediately embark on a major preventive action for this mediterranean region which has been cyclically affected in recent years? the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. this is unacceptable in an era of satellite forecasting and prevention, surveillance radars, specialised services and the gigantic scale of the machinery which should make safe achievements possible. the roman aqueduct of ansignan, near my home, the bridge of the guard, more famous, and how many other witnesses of human genius have withstood all the assaults. how can we say that the works of the last century are no longer sufficiently reliable? the time has come, not for comment, but for action, with the necessary means, however exceptional in their importance. europe in solidarity must no longer let its citizens die for lack of precautions and prevention. this seems to me to be a priority and a requirement.
- mr president, commissioner, my region, languedoc-roussillon, provence, the whole of southern france, is once again hit by floods. we have certainly benefited from the solidarity of the german and italian firefighters, but the reality, at the moment i am speaking to you, is that there are hundreds and hundreds of bodies of bulls and sheep that cannot yet be collected from flooded herds, farms and farms. the reality is that many small villages, such as codole in the gard, are destroyed within seven days of christmas, with 98% of the houses destroyed and hundreds of families left homeless, with concrete budgetary realities. it takes 700,000 euros for one kilometer of dike, 150,000 euros in a small village to rebuild the road, millions of euros to rebuild public buildings, schools, multi-purpose halls, sewage stations, sewage systems. the reality is that in a small village, it's 5,000 euros a day to feed the homeless, the security services, the families, even the military who are guarding the village to prevent looting; it's at least 40,000 to 80,000 euros per damaged house, and there are thousands of them. that's the main thing. what can i do? who's paying for it? what's the budget? are they the municipalities, the region, france, europe? in theory, mr president, commissioner, there are mechanisms of solidarity. there is even a principle of solidarity in article 2 of the treaty. there are mechanisms on paper: the erdf, objective 2, the eaggf guarantee section which played the mad cow, the direct advances for farmers which played after the floods of august 2002, the 2000-04 programme for civil protection and the new solidarity fund. we all know, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, that the rigorous criteria for eligibility for this fund and the modesty of the billion euro it contains, which has already been swallowed up by the fires in portugal and the earthquakes in italy, leave my countrymen in languedoc-roussillon very lonely on christmas eve. if, in the case in question, we have seen the waves coming but not the euros, we must at least work for the future. first, by funding a real-time information system, which does not exist because the mayors were not informed. from lyon to arles, in the present day, we need an electronic computer system to monitor all the rivers, dams, canals, arms and tributaries of the rhône basin in real time and to alert local authorities in case of danger. the province of murcia, mr president, in spain, has done it: we must be able to do it. but the real story is elsewhere. beyond prevention, reconstruction and compensation, it must be seen that water floods hide the reality of a demographic flood. the third generation of northern europeans, not to mention the cadres from the paris region, settled in languedoc-roussillon, provence and the far south. there are land grabs, soil impermeabilization, 150,000 hectares of vineyards that have flooded, and that's why, if your daughter is not mute, she is flooded. in addition, the dutch, english, belgian and northern european third generations will become fourth generations and will require very heavy sanitary equipment in our country. in conclusion, the reform of the structural funds must anticipate this territorial justice: as soon as we transfer populations from the north to the south, we must also transfer funding, otherwise we would be the palestinians of europe, seeing settlements of elderly people from northern europe settle in our country. we don't want to be the permanently disaster-stricken west bank of southern france!
the south of france has just been struck by an unprecedented natural disaster. today we are beginning to measure the extent of the damage, which is considerable. seven people have died and nearly 100,000 are estimated to be affected. tens of thousands of people had to take refuge in gymnasiums or in makeshift housing. in the city of arles alone, a third of the population was evacuated. thousands of jobs have been lost to the flood. hundreds of flooded businesses have had to close their doors, plunging their employees into the uncertainty of technical unemployment. the camargue, whose ecosystem is so fragile, is completely submerged: 250 km of damaged dikes, 560 hectares of crops covered by water, more than 1000 animals drowned, the entire rice chain destroyed. the damage suffered by the region will exceed €1 billion. european solidarity must be expressed in accordance with article 2 of the regulation establishing the solidarity fund. this is an exceptional disaster, the region having been hit by the "centennial crust" of the rhone, the worst of the century. on behalf of the french socialists, i ask that the european union quickly release these funds. the people of the rhône delta are waiting for this gesture.
in writing. - dramatic floods have once again hit my region, provence-alpes-côte d'azur, and languedoc-roussillon hard. i would first like to express my deepest sympathy to the victims of these disasters. if the french government has taken the necessary emergency measures by declaring a state of natural disaster, we need european solidarity. it has already been demonstrated on the ground and i would like to thank the german, italian, belgian and czech contingents who have come to the aid of the victims. i hope that it will also be expressed through the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund: the french government is currently preparing a request to this effect, which will be submitted in early 2004. my region had already benefited from this fund after the storms and torrential floods of september 2002 and i can assure you of its importance. while the structural funds make it possible to co-finance certain preventive and aid measures, the zoning and the ordinary consumption of appropriations limit their capacity. this is why we cannot afford to help the people and the regions affected. i hope, however, that in future they will include the prevention of natural disasters in their objectives: if repairing damage is a duty, only prevention is a genuine aid policy.
- mr president, the day after the velvet revolution, which led to the resignation of president shevardnadze, a new page has been opened in georgia. more than ever, georgia has an opportunity to turn to the european union and to deepen the existing partnership and cooperation agreement. georgia is a strategic gateway to central asia, but georgians must know that their future cannot be limited to choosing between two influences, that of russia or that of the united states. the recent political crisis is a strong signal from the people of georgia, who have shown their determination to fight for democracy, despite the country's catastrophic financial and economic situation and the growing corruption. with the early presidential elections on 4 january 2004 only a few weeks away, the european union must provide effective political, financial and technical assistance to the new georgian authorities to help them carry out the reforms needed to stabilise the situation in the country and allow the next elections to take place in a calm atmosphere. it is also our duty to offer our help in finding a peaceful solution to the conflict in the regions of abkhazia and south ossetia. the country's financial and economic situation will also need to be seriously reformed to reduce corruption. the european union has already provided overall financial assistance of around €342 million in the form of grants. the process of economic reform must continue to be supported by the european union more than ever, in order to restore a climate that encourages foreign and domestic investment. finally, the union should step up its efforts to encourage the establishment of democratic institutions and to support and promote independent media, through development aid programmes such as tacis. georgia must know that it can count on strong support from the union to finally regain some stability in a climate of democracy and transparency.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of transnistria has been a long-standing concern of the european union. in the declaration made at the recent osce ministerial summit in maastricht, in which the commission fully participates, the eu presidency reaffirmed our commitment to safeguard the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the republic of moldova. it confirmed its full support for the five-party negotiating framework comprising the osce, the russian federation, ukraine and the two parties concerned. the european union considers that this framework constitutes an appropriate transparent forum for finding a political solution to the conflict. in maastricht, the european union expressed its disappointment at the lack of progress in fulfilling the commitments made by russia in istanbul in 1999, namely the withdrawal of its troops and munitions from transnistria. the european union called on russia to honour its commitments. it considers that only a truly multinational commitment will have international legitimacy and reiterated its willingness to help find a multinational solution under the osce umbrella. the european union is also taking concrete action to promote a settlement of the conflict. the commission and moldova are finalising the drafting of an agreement establishing a double-checking system for steel exports from moldova to the european union. this system will strengthen moldova's control over exports from the breakaway region. the commission also encourages moldova to improve control of its borders and customs territory. in march 2003, the commission organised a first meeting between moldova and ukraine to consider the introduction of joint controls along their common borders and to discuss bilateral issues. a second meeting will be held in january 2004. the 'enlarged europe - a new neighbourhood' initiative opens up new prospects for extending to moldova the stability, security and prosperity that we have established within the enlarged european union. the very clear european perspective offered to moldova in the framework of the 'enlarged europe' initiative will, we hope, act as an additional incentive to reach a settlement of the conflict in transnistria. the commission will continue to monitor developments and will continue to address the issue of compliance with the istanbul commitments with the russian federation.
- thank you very much, commissioner. the joint debate is closed, we shall now proceed to the vote. for the results of the vote on the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law (rule 50): see minutes.
- parliament has exhausted its agenda. wishing you all a very good holiday and full of energy to conclude your fifth term in 2004, i hereby declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. have a good holiday! (the sitting was closed at 4.20 p.m.) composition of committees and political groups - authorisation to draw up own-initiative reports - cooperation between parliamentary committees - withdrawal of an own-initiative report already authorised by the conference of presidents - statements entered in the register (rule 51) - transmission of texts adopted at this part-session - schedule of next part-sessions: see minutes.
