i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its work on the subject of the european parliament's role in the european parliament, and that it has been very careful in its work on the european parliament's role in the european parliament. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. and the ones i know, at least for my country and my region, are terrible. for example, next week i am inviting a group of 50 people from crete and, as far as i know, the money approved so far is not even enough for the ticket. i am of the opinion that, in addition to the disorder that exists in this case, it is also a matter of moral order. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to do so. i propose, in order to make a serious decision, that this decision of approval by the bureau, which is unacceptable in my view, and not only in mine, be suspended until further notice.
the european union is adapting its measures to the needs of the people of europe, in order to present itself as a defender of human rights. it is not difficult to defend the rights, for example, of homosexuals, but the right to access to employment, health care, education, culture, sports is denied. at the same time, it systematically promotes the shrinking and elimination of democratic gains, using terrorism and illegal immigration as a pretext. the eu version of rights was enshrined in the so-called charter of fundamental rights, which the communist party of greece had denounced as inadequate and misleading. the report is based on this and therefore makes no reference to the slavery of new employment relationships, the dismantling and commodification of social benefits. it does not oppose the hormonal grid, while ignoring the electronic schengen file, the silencing, the distortion, even the persecution and persecution of ideas that disturb the system. it is a positive thing, however, that the report identifies a number of violations such as the torture of prisoners, human trafficking, the suspension of rights in genoa. it is also positive that it calls for the separation of church and state, criticises child labour, points out the negative effects of anti-terrorism measures and asylum and immigration legislation, and speaks of social empowerment of women. the objective reality, and the report itself, is not in the least favourable to the european union. the improvement can only come from the intensification of the struggle of the popular movement.
mr president, in sharing the general remarks of the other members of the european people's party, i shall confine myself to two remarks on criticism of my country, greece, which, in their exaggeration, undermine the seriousness of the report and indeed of fundamental rights. the first refers to the mount athos in greece, where only male pilgrims are allowed to enter. this is a system that has been in place for 1200 years, it is guaranteed by the treaty on european union and it is also enshrined in the greek constitution. it cannot therefore be changed and it must not be changed, because that would be to accept the violation of family asylum, since the holy mountain is the home of 5 000 monks, and it is their right to take in whomever they wish, just as we ordinary citizens have the right to take in and welcome whomever we wish and exclude whomever we do not wish. it is not a tourist area, and those who are interested in how orthodox monks live should visit the hundreds of other male monasteries in greece and other orthodox countries to satisfy their curiosity. the second observation concerns conscientious objectors. sadly, under the pretext of religious beliefs or the military's rejection of violence, some avoid serving and get by as public servants at the expense of the state budget, while at the same time some of them do not hesitate to use violence if it serves their ideology. i would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that some of the 17 november terrorists who were recently arrested in greece and whose famous trial is due to begin in a few days have so far murdered some 50 foreign diplomats, ministers, politicians, journalists, judges, have declared conscientious objection and have been discharged from the army, while another conscientious objector who was serving in a psychiatric institution was practising the sport of torturing the inmates of that asylum. i regret that sometimes excess leads to the ridicule of fundamental rights.
mr president, all the reports we are discussing on the community's railways are part of the privatization campaign of recent years, so that there is not a single public sector left that is not handed over to private capital at the cost of quality, the safety of citizens and the cost of the services provided. by means of accounting tricks and unfounded arguments, that, as in the case of road transport which does not contribute to the infrastructure costs of the road network but is open to private individuals, in the name of free competition private individuals should be allowed to exploit railway infrastructure and services, for which taxpayers have paid and are paying, while private individuals themselves have had no part in their creation. in the midst of and intensifying the crisis in the economic, energy, transport, road, air and maritime and environmental sectors, large private capital, seeing the potential of railways to save energy and costs and thus to make profits, is turning its attention to rail transport and is trying to penetrate it on equal terms, in fact quite unequally, with the state railway companies. in other words, the commission's proposals, which unfortunately complement the reports under discussion, disregarding quality, transport costs and user safety, undermined and cancelled out by the logic of extreme competition and the profitability of capital, create the conditions for the full exploitation of the profitable rail transport sector by private individuals, leaving the state solely responsible for the extremely high costs of construction and maintenance of the infrastructure and the non-profit part of rail transport. in this spirit, mr president, we are strongly opposed to proposals for a measured and well-calculated liberalisation of the railways, because they open the door to full liberalisation with all the negative consequences for the citizen-user.
mr president, the ambitious but realistic programme of the greek presidency, which aims to give new life to key areas of european union policy, is unfortunately already being overshadowed by the threat of war in iraq. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a force which is not only a political force but also a political force. i would say that it is not divided in the united states either, where we know that two thirds of the citizens are opposed to this war. we are talking about a war that is both useless and destructive, as has been stressed by all the wings of this parliament. the real burden of a military attack will be borne by the iraqi people themselves, who have suffered for years under the economic embargo. a military operation would completely eliminate any hope of fighting poverty, hunger, child malnutrition and lack of medical care, problems experienced by millions of people, victims of an authoritarian regime and a harsh policy by western countries. the 12 years of embargo have effectively served as a weapon of mass destruction, having cost the lives of a million civilians, half of them children, and anyone who has doubts should visit the hospitals of iraq, to see children dying of malnutrition and lack of basic medical care. i visited them and saw them. in greece, however, ladies and gentlemen, we say that the good captain in the storm is showing up, and the ship of the european union this semester is fortunate to have a very capable captain and an equally efficient crew, who have given tangible examples of courage combined with prudence, effective management of national and european issues, but at the same time an inspired foreign policy that has made greece a pole of stability in the difficult balkan region, a pole of promoting dialogue and resolving differences by peaceful means. i am sure that the greek presidency will rise to the challenge and play its historic role.
mr president, i would like to welcome the greek prime minister and wish him every success. we know the relative size of greece. no one expects miracles. but he's waiting for a good orientation. it is not the first greek presidency, there have been two previous ones. we have a lot of criticism to make of the previous two. but there is a positive legacy of the presidencies held by the same party, pasok, with the then prime minister, andreas papandreou, that is to say, a militant stance, often against the tide, on peace issues. i would like to believe that this positive tradition, which is the tradition of our country and of the ruling party, if you will, will be followed today, and especially in the case of iraq. it is true what the green leader said: we must not hide behind the un formula! with four members on the security council, the european union must fight to prevent war. i have listened carefully to the prime minister's speech. i will mention three things that worried me: the first is that the prime minister has also said that this is a joint annual programme of the greek and italian presidencies. i think that semit is one thing, and berlusconi must be another. i cannot see how on social issues, on democracy, on relations with the united states, on the media, a common position can be formed. the second point that concerned me was that the issues of agricultural policy, and here i am thinking of small family farms, especially in the south, which are under unbearable pressure from the revisions, from what is happening in the world trade organisation, were only a headline at the end of the prime minister's speech. and i'm expecting a larger reference in his statement. and the third point in relation to social issues: i expect, mr prime minister, that greece will implement directive 70/1999 on contractors, which it should have implemented by 10 july 2002 and has not yet done so. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is not left in the lurch.
mr president, i too welcome the greek prime minister as president of the european council and i sincerely wish him every success, because this will benefit both europe and greece. i have heard that, rightly, one of the main objectives of the presidency is to promote the lisbon strategy and mr prodi has said a lot and important things about this. but today i read in the international press that the commission is about to publish a report which finds that europe is losing the battle to become the most competitive economy in the world by 2010. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission's report also states, if figaro is to be believed, that the creation of a two-speed europe is envisaged. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to ask, mr president, first of all: is there a common policy to promote the lisbon strategy, or is it the other way around, with each country doing what it wants, or at least not implementing this common policy? and secondly, do you intend to pursue policies which will promote the achievement of the lisbon objectives for all the countries of the european union, and in particular for greece?
mr president, the greek presidency comes at a time when the world is going through critical hours, and not just because we are on the verge of at least one military conflict. the moment is critical because the only superpower, the united states, is trying in every way to convert its immense power into world hegemony, which is understandably causing reactions. the european union is a great example of a great european country, a great european country, a great european country, a great european country, a great european country. and that is regardless of the outcome of the crisis. what is certain is that the post-war world order and its institutions will be the victims of the conflict and another different world will emerge. the european union must have an opinion on this new world. i have the impression, however, that the institutions of the european union are complacent, as if what is happening does not concern us. i have the impression that many of us believe that we live in a closed system; to another world, immune to what is already happening and what is yet to happen. a presidency of the european union, mr president, at such times, must be able to transform the values we declare to be our own into a vision for the world to come and convince the peoples of europe that they are worth fighting for. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and programs, and so much more. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today.
i have followed very closely the priorities you have set out, mr president, mr prime minister, mr president of the commission. i wish the five were six, but i think in the process, the sixth will be incorporated. i am referring to the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy. the final proposals are expected in january. the european union is already enlarged by ten new members. the rural population of the european union is increasing by 165%. agricultural land is increasing by 43%. the arable land is increasing by 55%. but the funds until 2013, at best, with the lowest inflation, will remain the same. i would like to ask you, mr prime minister, what are the objectives of your presidency, what do you hope to achieve on behalf of the millions of european farmers, both in the european union as it exists today and in the one that is being formed? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fact is that the competitive edge of our economy in relation to the american economy, which is our most competitive economy, has not closed, but rather widened. i am particularly interested and pleased to see that you give priority to entrepreneurship and small businesses. you're doing great. today you are announcing it with ambition. in about five months, we'll be here to cash in on what happened. i would like to know, mr president of the government and council, what you are planning to do today to achieve these ambitious objectives, which you have not done at national level.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, in welcoming the assumption of the presidency by greece, i would like to stress the fact that it is taking place at a historic moment in the evolutionary process of the unique phenomenon we call european integration, which is also restoring the post-war unity of our continent. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december, in the context of the european council in brussels, has given a clear signal to the european parliament that it is ready to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's institutions and bodies are able to meet the challenges of the future. for the enlargement: the main decisions were taken during the previous presidency, but there are still other stages to be completed, most notably the signing of the act of accession in athens. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the new community rules on the protection of the environment. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. i noted that you, mr president-in-office, would promote the enhanced pre-accession strategy for bulgaria and romania, which is very good, but we must not forget the countries in the southern balkans, where the process of rapprochement with the european union through the stabilisation and association process has been under way for some time, so that the approach of deepening our relations must also be promoted there, which will strengthen the security and stability of the new enlarged europe. for the lisbon strategy, i will focus on sustainable development. the need for a strategy to promote sustainable development in the context of european integration is more urgent today under the pressure of enlargement, deepening and globalisation. the commission's sustainable development strategy implementation plan is already bridging the gap between declarations and legislative instruments on environmental protection and public health and promoting the implementation and integration of environmental considerations into all policies. i therefore consider it very essential that a step-by-step procedure for monitoring the policy being implemented be introduced at the spring european council. the difficulties encountered in signing the kyoto protocol make it all the more urgent to strengthen dialogue and cooperation with the usa, japan and the developing countries. it is clear that the european union cannot deal with these problems internally. it must therefore assume its responsibilities on a global scale, and that means that it must act as a leader in the effort to achieve sustainable global development through technology and science. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. as regards the defence policy on immigration, i agree with the fact that for years we have been seeking an immigration policy in the european union, but without any concrete results. in particular, we expect the development of an integrated policy and the development of an integrated policy on illegal immigration. on the one hand, illegal immigrants themselves often live in miserable conditions, and on the other hand they create enormous problems for societies and people living in the member states of the european union. measures should therefore be taken to improve the management of the external borders and to combat illegal immigration networks and trafficking in human beings, promoting measures under the third pillar. i was very interested to hear you speak of concluding readmission agreements with all the partner countries, and particularly with those where there is intense pressure. so please, go ahead with this matter. the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism and to combat terrorism in all its forms. finally, in external relations, i believe that you should promote euro-mediterranean cooperation and in particular the formulation of a long-term euro-mediterranean policy, because after greece comes italy, and it is an opportunity for the two countries, which are better acquainted with these problems, to draw up an effective euro-mediterranean policy. it's not enough to cooperate. it needs a long-term policy. i wish you good luck! i hope we'll be here in six months, you with a report showing that you've done what you told us today and we ready for a good-faith, constructive and honest criticism. i wish you good luck!
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the european network of networks, the european network of networks, the network of networks, the network of networks, the network of networks, the network of networks, etc. we have the biggest expansion in history, putting an end to a 50-year division. we are drawing up a european constitution to strengthen our institutions so that europe can maintain its cohesion after the entry of the ten new states and also maintain the character of a political union in order to achieve its goal of ever greater unification of the peoples of europe. the assembly has repeatedly called for more europe. the greek presidency will complete this building in thessaloniki in june. europe is also facing a very serious economic downturn. in the face of a global economic recession that is not today's. the economic caesura of europe has been going on for at least ten years. europe has opposed an inspired strategy, the lisbon strategy. but the economic downturn is threatening to undermine this strategy. i believe that greece, a country whose economy has recovered thanks to a reform programme initiated by you, mr president, and which has now reached a rate of growth at the initiative of the european union, and which in the process has brought about a complete revolution in the agricultural sector, where the agricultural economy has gone from the third world to the first world, thanks of course to the help of the common agricultural policy, with all this preparation, greece has the intellectual equipment to breathe new life into the lisbon process. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration. but their beneficial effects may be delayed if we confront the war in iraq. i agree with mr poettering that nuclear weapons cannot be left in the hands of irresponsible people. it cannot possibly remain in responsible hands, mr poettering. there are no hands responsible enough to hold these terrifying revelatory weapons with which we are equipped. we don't know what's going to happen in iraq. we know that the president of the council is the only european leader who has had the sad privilege of facing the danger of his country's military involvement in a devastating war. he managed to prevent that war. i hope that the experience he has gained will help him to do the same for the war that is now threatening the whole world.
mr president, i regret to say that i will not be celebrating because the situation does not allow it. the greek government is assuming the presidency in the context of a deepening economic crisis and the growing possibility of a new, more deadly attack by the imperialists against the iraqi people. the problem is iraq's unproven arsenal when these hypocritical masters produce all kinds of weapons of mass destruction and use and trade them. the greek government was an accomplice in the wars against yugoslavia and afghanistan and has said it will do the same in the forthcoming war against iraq, while citing as a fig leaf the need for a previous un security council resolution. the greek presidency will promote an interventionist european defence and security policy with direct use of the euro-army, initially in bosnia and fyrom, but also where necessary. it will intensify the attack on labour, social security and pension rights. the interim review of the cap will uproot more small farmers. it will promote mechanisms for the prosecution of migrants and stricter asylum conditions. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that is responsible for the implementation of the convention. the signing of the treaty on the enlargement of the european union during the greek presidency will be a new sign of suffering for its peoples and will, we fear, lead to the europeanisation of cyprus. i would therefore like to reassure those who may be concerned about the greek government's socialist label that the greek presidency, as they have heard today, will also serve the interests of big business. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty, and it has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty. the only way forward is to join forces and develop their struggle against this policy. in greece, mr president, demonstrations are planned almost daily, culminating in june, and we call on the workers of the countries of europe to take part in them. as far as the kke is concerned, it will be in the front line of this struggle.
commission. (es) ladies and gentlemen, the commission would point out that the issues raised by the honourable member are linked in particular to respect for human dignity and the prohibition of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, principles which are common to all the member states of the union. these principles are laid down in article 6 of the treaty on european union and confirmed in articles 1 and 4 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the respect of these principles by states is guaranteed by the infringement procedure provided for in article 226 of the treaty on the european community and by the political procedure provided for in article 7 of the treaty on european union. according to the first, the commission may bring an action before the court of justice if the contested act falls within the scope of community law. the second provides that the commission or one third of the member states of the union may refer the matter to the council, meeting in the composition of heads of state or government, in the event of a serious and persistent breach of the principles referred to in article 6. the majority of cases dealt with by the questions raised by the honourable member concern asylum, immigration and the protection of the rights of third country nationals. these issues are within the scope of the community's powers. the commission has also begun to legislate on this subject in accordance with articles 61 and 63 of the ec treaty. the commission would point out, however, that the council of europe report to which the honourable member refers was followed by a detailed response from the greek authorities, which in the present situation provide a number of responses to the concerns expressed by the european committee for the prevention of torture. in any event, the commission will follow closely the development of the dialogue between the council of europe and the greek authorities.
i am grateful to the commissioner for his reply and i really hope that he will follow up this matter, which is indeed very serious. it also raises questions of transparency and control, because, as you can see, the council of europe commission has been given false information. i hope that you, the european commission, are not being given false information. i would like to ask you in addition the following: in addition to everything else, as regards the right of visit in those cases where detained, and even in detention centres which are often not official, foreign nationals and mainly immigrants, can we guarantee or ask or press the greek authorities to make the right of visit a regular practice, at least in non-governmental organisations, so as to reduce at least the problems which are already posed by the things that are being reported and which, personally and as a greek citizen, make me ashamed?
commission. – the commission is committed to improving the environment for small businesses. this is a policy line that we have followed for many years. the european charter for small enterprises has been a valuable instrument focusing and reinforcing this work. many of the charter recommendations address issues that fall under national responsibility. much of the commission's work aims to help member states to improve the business environment for their small businesses. the commission welcomes the request of the barcelona european council that member states speed up the charter implementation. this has contributed to keeping small businesses' concerns high on the political agenda. i had a chance to speak with the greek presidency last week and my services have separately met the national authorities of all member states including the greek ministry of development to review progress under the charter. the commission will report next week on the implementation of the charter but i can already now say that member states’ progress in 2002 is encouraging, in particular in the areas of education for entrepreneurship and better regulation. better regulation is at the heart of the commission's concerns at the moment. if i may just refer to the question by mr harbour, better regulation involves, at the commission level, firstly open consultation so that smes are not taken by surprise when new legislation is being proposed, and secondly impact assessment where we try in a consolidated manner to assess the impact on businesses, especially of course small- and medium-sized businesses, of any important new regulatory initiative that the commission takes. this year we have agreed orally on the number of the issues which will go to this kind of broad impact assessment when we assess the economic, social and environmental impact. a detailed review of all community measures benefiting small and medium-sized enterprises will also be published next week when the commission reports comprehensively on entrepreneurial and sme activities. at the same time i hope we will be also able to adopt in the commission the green paper on entrepreneurship. this green paper intends to launch a debate among the widest possible audience of stakeholders on two crucial issues:how to produce more entrepreneurs,andhow to get more firms to grow. the green paper defines entrepreneurship as a ‘mindset’ and focuses on the role of policy on entrepreneurial behaviour among both new and existing entrepreneurs. it also considers the influence of society at large on entrepreneurial initiative and risk-taking. the paper suggests a coordinated approach, involving policy-makers in different services at european, national and regional level, to provide a coherent response to the needs of entrepreneurs. the commission can help the member states to share experience and compare performance. the paper identifies three pillars for action:firstly, bringing down barriers to business development and growth;secondly, balancing the risks and reward of entrepreneurship;and thirdly, a society that values entrepreneurship. for each of these, the green paper raises a number of questions for debate. as far as the smes which have benefited from community funding are concerned, some basic data have been collected but a completed picture would require more time for an in-depth analysis.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to answer that question. i would like to make it clear that the green paper is being prepared and will contribute to the joint effort of the european institutions and the member states to strengthen entrepreneurship and the dynamism of the european economy, and thus to create new jobs. i am asking for more specific information, and i think it is worth your attention because the lisbon strategy, which we discussed at length earlier, on the occasion of the presentation of the greek presidency's priorities, has made us understand that it is not easy to achieve the objectives we have set and that the development of small and mediumsized enterprises is a primary factor in achieving the competitiveness that must distinguish the european economy and in creating jobs. i am waiting to see what the evidence will be that i will be able to draw from my questions in the report you will publish next week, and i reserve the right to rephrase the question by asking for answers to these questions.
mr president, we are discussing afghanistan today, one year after bonn. in fact, we have been talking about afghanistan for many decades, since bonn is only one stage in an ongoing crisis. the balance sheet is positive and negative. but in these matters, the people are the ones who have to take the final decision. so whether the violence comes from warlords or the taliban, for civilians there is no difference. in this sense, our objectives must be to establish a stable rule of law, stable institutions so that democratic processes can function and respect for all rights for all. it takes a lot of work, a lot of effort, and most of all, a long-term strategy. the question is whether all the forces operating in the region have a common strategy. we have talked about the european union, about us 15 or 25, but there was no mention of what strategy russia, america, pakistan have for the region. they're in sympathy with us, or they have other ideas, so common goals are not common goals? i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. it would therefore not be wrong to give an account of basic facts, of the increase in crime, of the limits of the functioning of any state, of the issues of where the money of the peoples of europe is being spent. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to the question of the budget. in this sense, the involvement of the greatest possible number of citizens of this country is a very important element for the development of the institutions, democratization and stabilization.
mr president, i too had the unique experience of being in afghanistan and seeing the situation for myself. i am particularly pleased to note the excellent work being done there by our staff, as you said, commissioner, and the strong presence of the european union. however, one year after bonn, i think there is a serious problem of coordination, both in terms of the provision and distribution of aid and, above all, in terms of the policy pursued. that is, a different policy is being pursued by the european union, which supports a strong central government in afghanistan, and a different policy is being pursued by the united states, which is pursuing its beloved policy, the policy of divide and rule from the days of the taliban and the mujahideen. today they are supporting the warlords they consider friendly. i am not sure that the commissioner has said anything about this. unfortunately, as a result of this divisive western policy, entire regions are now outside the control of the central government, and this is precisely what has led to a resurgence in opium production, which reached 70% of world production in 2002. the situation of women is of course still tragic in all areas. blue ghosts still roam the streets of kabul, as few women dare to take off the burqa and risk their own lives. the taliban may have lost power, but their spirit is everywhere. i am of the opinion that there can be no economic and social progress as long as the culture of violence, religious fanaticism and misogyny prevails in this country. the women are 98 percent illiterate, financially dependent, and 99 percent give birth without any medical help. this background is, of course, an ideal base for the development of extremist movements such as the taliban. i think that the greek presidency, mr president-in-office of the council, can make a significant contribution by proposing the creation of a european fund specifically for women in afghanistan, i.e. a specific line in the 2004 budget. the fund will finance the creation of infrastructure aimed at integrating women into public life. i would also like to propose, commissioner, that president karzai be invited to strasbourg to speak before the european parliament.
in writing. - (el) the proposal on fundamental rights within the eu is, on the whole, positive. however, there are some paragraphs which are problematic, such as paragraph 78 on the ban on women entering mount athos. i believe that women's rights should not be assessed at this level but rather in areas such as employment, equal pay, domestic violence or the fight against human trafficking. i do not think that we can speak of freedom of movement in this small piece of land, which has its own sense of time and lives according to customs and traditions that are thousands of years old. soon we will be asking for freedom of establishment and enterprise, and we will see monasteries flooded with coca-cola stands. in a world where everything is being homogenized and plasticised, we must respect the cultural wealth inherited from the past, which does not influence modern society, and let mount athos continue its journey through time in peace. therefore, because of the presence of paragraph 78, i am obliged to reject the whole report.
in the case of greece, the resolution in mrs swiebel's report expresses a very negative view. on most of the points where criticism is directed at greece or where greece is urged to make improvements, either the relevant provisions of greek law have already been adjusted - and therefore the necessary improvements have been made - or the first steps towards such adjustment have been taken. the following examples are given as an indication: 1. we are urged (see paragraph 17) to abolish the death penalty. in doing so, it omits three things, namely that: (a) the death penalty has already been abolished, with the sole exception of the military penal code, and moreover only in respect of war crimes; (b) the draft law abolishing the death penalty in the military penal code is ready; (c) the death penalty, if imposed, is not carried out. the second. conscientious objection: (a) there is a new provision under which a person may be exempted from compulsory military service; the scheme is enshrined in the constitution; (b) under greek law this favourable treatment is no longer limited to persons who refuse to serve for religious reasons; the court of justice has also held that the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of religion and belief is not incompatible with the principle of equal treatment for men and women.
in writing. - (el) by voting in favour of the pirker report, a report rejected by the kke (communist party of greece), the european parliament laid the foundations for the materialisation of racist and xenophobic decisions aimed at making the eu immune to waves of immigration. the seville council decided to create a further hyper-nationalist and repressive mechanism, the european border guard corps, whose imminent establishment is in contradiction with the constitutions of the member states. for this reason, the commission decided to set up a hybrid counterpart to the border guards, which it calls the 'joint agency for the protection of the external borders'. it also decided to incorporate into community legislation another text of a clearly police nature, the 'common manual on the protection of external borders', after a previous revision which made it even more undemocratic. finally, the use of satellites and radars to monitor the eu's borders is even being considered, thanks to the galileo satellite navigation system. the register of surveillance and police services has been enriched by an additional service, scifa+, which will function as an orientation and coordination service. it is worrying to see that the report voted by the european parliament is more autocratic than the commission's statement. the european union is also committed to the development of a european security policy based on the principles of the rule of law, democracy and human rights. the report also contains criticisms of the adoption of propaganda concerning 'modified threat scenarios'; criticisms of the delay in the constitution of the border guard corps, etc.
council the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration. i know that the candidates who were there, and especially the two who were left for the final round, both had extraordinary qualifications and abilities. i think that the european parliament has made an excellent choice. i believe that this will also result in mr diamantoure's contribution to european affairs and will help to develop the institution of the ombudsman even better. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of proposing to the council to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the directive, and that the commission has taken the initiative of proposing to the council to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier'. it is so valuable that it will be a real loss to us in greece on all sides. but we hope to win it next with more experience and skill. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
commission. – president, on behalf of the commission, on behalf of the college and on behalf of all who work in the commission, i would like most warmly to congratulate professor diamandouros on his election. it is a great day for him and a great day for greece, though i recognise europe's gain is greece's loss. the professor comes to these onerous responsibilities with extraordinary credentials, not least that he is a friend of commissioner diamontopoulou, so there are many reasons to recognise that he has all the qualities and all the experience and knowledge which are required for this demanding job. i would also like to pay a tribute to the work done by mr söderman over the last few years. i am sure that professor diamandouros will undertake his responsibilities in a way which will enjoy the confidence of this parliament and which will overwhelmingly earn the confidence of europe's citizens as well. we wish him the best on this journey and we assure him that on this occasion, arriving and landing in ithaca is even more exciting than travelling there. i would also like, if i may – having myself lost almost as many elections as i have won – to pay a tribute to mr perry who has, i know, enjoyed the esteem of the whole house, and his graceful remarks a few moments ago will, i know only serve to enhance his reputation. all our best wishes go to the professor who i am sure will do this job outstandingly well. (applause)
- the minutes of yesterday's meeting have been distributed. are there any observations ?
- thank you very much, mrs. thors. we have noted your remarks.
- thank you very much, mr nogueira román, for your remarks. i can assure you that parliament's services have already taken note of what you have said and will correct the minutes. (the minutes were approved)
- the agenda calls for the joint debate on the recommendation (α5-0410/2002) by mr galeote quecedo, and on the oral questions (β5-0508/2002, β5-0509/2002) to the council and the commission, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the conclusion of the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part.
mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner, i welcome you to the plenary session of the european parliament. the signing of the euro-mediterranean association agreement with lebanon is certainly an important step in the implementation of our strategy, which aims to create a free trade area in the mediterranean, but also a zone of peace, security and sustainable development for all citizens. i believe we can look forward to our cooperation with lebanon. lebanon is historically a country open to the outside world, particularly oriented towards europe and our culture, and its cooperation with the eu has been in force since 1978, even though the eu had another name. but we must bear in mind that the country is in the midst of a complete reconstruction, not only economic but also social and ideological, after the civil war. the european union has a duty to help the people of lebanon, and to help the people of lebanon, to help the people of lebanon, to help the people of lebanon, to help the people of lebanon, to help the people of lebanon, to help the people of lebanon, to help the people of lebanon, to help the people of lebanon, to help the people of lebanon, to help the people of lebanon, to help the people of lebanon, to help the people of lebanon, to help the people of lebanon, to help the people of lebanon, to help the people of lebanon, to help the people of lebanon, to help the people of lebanon, to help the people of lebanon, to help the people of lebanon, to help the people of lebanon, to help the people of lebanon. the commission has also been working on a number of proposals for the future of the european union, including the creation of a european union agency for fundamental rights. i believe that the association agreement will help the country to move forward in consolidating the free market rules which have already been established, but also in consolidating democracy, economic and social development. we must, at the level of the european institutions and the member states, make full use of the potential of this agreement to give lebanon the opportunity to participate in cultural exchange programmes, to activate civil society; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this context, i find very positive the references made in the draft agreement to the promotion of the role of women in the process of economic and social development through education, vocational training and the facilitation of economic investment. i am sorry, however, that these reports are not enough to really promote respect for women's rights, and i am sorry that there has been no report on this subject from either the president or the commissioner. i would remind you that the european parliament, in its resolution on respect for women's rights in euro-mediterranean cooperation, had called for an explicit provision on the protection of women's rights and at the same time for a policy of monitoring protection, similar to that applied in the countries which were under accession and which are now our new members. on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, we would ask the european commission to have mechanisms in place to monitor and evaluate progress and to require the government of lebanon, as it must in all other association agreements, to show the necessary political will to accelerate legislative, administrative and other reforms in order to establish legal equality between men and women and to mainstream gender equality in all its policies. this will be a prerequisite for the development we want in lebanon and for good relations of cooperation with the european union.
- mr. brok, thank you very much for your comment. i should also like to inform you that the plenary services are already working on a list of amendments containing this correction, which will be announced tomorrow, before the vote on the recommendation and the proposal in question. i have received a motion for a vote pursuant to rule 42 (5) of the rules of procedure on the subject discussed. the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
council the european council in copenhagen on 13 december concluded the accession negotiations with cyprus. cyprus is to be admitted as a new member state of the union on 1 may 2004. the union has always expressed a clear preference for the accession of a united cyprus. in this regard, the european union welcomes the commitment of the two sides to continue negotiations with a view to achieving a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus problem by the end of february 2003 on the basis of the proposals of the un secretary-general. if these efforts prove successful, the council, acting unanimously on the basis of proposals from the commission, will decide on the adjustments necessary to the conditions of accession of cyprus to the european union as regards the turkish cypriot community. if no solution is found, the application of the acquis in the northern part of the island will be suspended until the council decides otherwise, on the basis of proposals from the european commission.
i know that the question is a stale one, and that is because it had to be tabled about two months before today's sitting and the european council had not yet been held in copenhagen. i am grateful for the answer, but on the occasion of this question and answer and of the reference to the draft by the secretary-general, i would like to ask: does the council intend to intervene in any way in the debate on the development of the annan plan, particularly as regards those aspects of the plan which do not allow the european acquis in the field of freedom of movement and establishment to function?
council the council has welcomed the annan plan as a proposal which can provide a solution to the cyprus problem. it is waiting for both sides to agree and is working with the european commission to see which aspects of the european acquis may have problems in relation to the plan. transitional periods, which are a common occurrence even in the negotiations of the candidate countries, and are accepted or likely to be accepted in this case as well, or marginal divergences of no particular importance to the acquis, which the european commission has stated that it can deal with in order to facilitate a solution to the cyprus problem - provided, of course, that both sides agree - the greek cypriot and turkish cypriot will be able to be integrated into the final solution without creating particular problems in the dynamics and the results of this solution.
mr minister, you are aware of our party's position on cyprus's accession to the european union. if the free part of cyprus is admitted, cyprus will be divided. if the annan plan goes ahead, we have a hidden divide. i would like to put a specific question to you: if there is no agreement on the annan plan and the free part of cyprus joins, we will have a part of the european union under foreign occupation. i wonder how the council will deal with the fact that part of the european union is under foreign occupation and whether you have any idea how things will develop in the occupied part.
council i would point out that the council does not comment on the conduct of court cases in member states. the council is also unable to give an opinion on the monitoring system established under the european convention on human rights. this convention was established under the auspices of the council of europe. the international monitoring system established to monitor the implementation of the convention by the contracting states also operates under the auspices of the council of europe. the council does not consider that it is its task to comment on the functioning of international human rights monitoring systems set up by international organizations. as regards the commission's proposal for a framework decision laying down common standards throughout the european union for procedural guarantees for persons charged with criminal offences, the council assures the honourable member that it will examine the proposal very carefully once it has been submitted by the commission.
council the question of the application of the charter of human rights is a matter of debate in the european assembly. as a national minister, and not as a representative of the council, i would like to say that we support this incorporation of the charter of human rights and i hope and wish that all the other members would agree to this. i am returning to my capacity as a representative of the council and, as i said, we expect, should the commission consider that such initiatives, which are substantial and valuable for people who are being accused, especially from other countries, are needed, that the council will consider them very carefully.
the question, mr president, touches on the question of guarantees, but in the context of the harmonization of criminal law in europe. we have very serious problems affecting many citizens of the european union who, crossing the borders of one country to another, find themselves in a completely different legal reality. and i often refer to crimes - for example, the use of hashish or other soft drugs by young people - which in one country can land you in prison, in another country are not even crimes. the greek government has shown a sensitivity to these issues. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one.
council as the honourable member is aware, encouraging and supporting small and mediumsized enterprises is one of the main priorities of the greek presidency, within the framework of the lisbon strategy. the president of the council, mr simitis, sent a letter last year, together with mr kok, the then prime minister of the netherlands, on the need to promote measures for small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has stated that it intends to submit shortly the green paper on entrepreneurship and smes to which the honourable member refers. once the green paper has been submitted, it will be dealt with by the relevant council bodies with due priority. in addition, the recent commission communication 'industrial policy in an enlarged europe', which will also be examined in depth during the greek presidency, underlines the central role played by smes in promoting industrial dynamism and innovative ideas. improving the general conditions for smes, and particularly sme-related entrepreneurship, is considered to be of key importance in the context of a modern industrial and enterprise policy. independently of the green paper, the spring european council will examine the state of play of the implementation of the european charter for smes, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the charter itself and taking, of course, into account the requests of the european parliament.
mr president, i am sorry to have forced you to say things that are already known. i think that what remains as an element which i feel the need to return to with my question is what new things you will bring to this process in order to strengthen small and mediumsized enterprises, which as we all know are also the biggest source of employment, which we are anxiously seeking to increase in europe. in my view, i make this clear and in the question i put to you, you should look at the evaluation of european programmes, of the funding that has been given to businesses so far, because experience tells us that some countries make better use of innovation than others and have results in the competitiveness i mentioned, and therefore in job creation. i think it is indeed crucial and important for the lisbon process that i make an assessment of our policy towards small and mediumsized enterprises, and i therefore ask, mr president, if you can give me some information about your plans.
council the eu is closely following the situation in venezuela and has made its position clear, both publicly and to the partners and authorities involved in the pursuit, through negotiations of course, of a peaceful and constitutional solution to the political crisis in the country. i refer in particular to the statements made by the successive presidencies of the union on 12 april and 10 october 2002, by the heads of mission on 8 december and by the high representative on 19 december. recently, on 23 december, the presidency reiterated the eu's position in a statement stating that: the european union continues to follow closely the developments in the internal situation in venezuela with growing concern. the european union welcomes the adoption by the organization of american states of resolution 833, which supports the democratic institutions in venezuela, and the mediation efforts of the secretary-general of the organization. in this context, the european union strongly supports the efforts of the secretary-general of the opcw to create the appropriate conditions for dialogue and national reconciliation. the european union urges the institutions and people of venezuela to commit themselves to seeking a peaceful and constitutional solution to the crisis, so that a stable situation can be restored in the country, allowing the promotion of economic progress and social development, in full respect of democratic principles and the rule of law. finally, the council wishes to stress that the plo permanent council, in its resolution of 16 december, called on all sectors of society to protect the free functioning of the essential elements of democracy, with a view to seeking a constitutional, democratic and peaceful solution based on elections.
we have to be very careful about the way we use our money, and we have to be very careful about the way we use it. they conveyed to us the picture of the situation in the country, that the people of venezuela are behind the elected president chavez, whose election has been confirmed more than five times and who is facing with determination the attempt to overthrow him organized by the big economic interests, but, and everyone knows it, also by the united states. the european union's observation of the situation from afar and with great attention, as you have told us, and its talk of a constitutional solution, at a time when it is quite clear who is within the framework of the constitution of the republic of venezuela and who is outside it - i am also reminded of the position taken last year by the spanish government during the spanish presidency, which in fact welcomed the coup against president chavez - shows that the european union's behaviour is not very different from that of the united states, which also, at least ostensibly, is taking the 'wait and see' attitude. but we would expect something different.
the honourable member is aware of the conclusions of the copenhagen european council on iraq. it is known that the un has been conducting weapons inspections in iraq since 27 november, in accordance with resolution 1441. the reason for this decision is to give iraq the possibility of peaceful disarmament. i repeat what the president-in-office said yesterday, that war is not inevitable. the key to a peaceful settlement is the proper implementation of resolution 1441, and in particular the active cooperation of saddam hussein with the un inspectors. the next step in this process for the head of the monitoring, control and inspection committee, mr hans blix, and for the director of the international atomic energy agency, dr elbaradei, is to report to the security council on 27 january on the results of their assessment of iraq's declaration on its weapons of mass destruction. the united nations security council remains the principal forum for resolving the iraq issue.
we have heard today and yesterday the greek prime minister and the president of the council and we are really left speechless, i would say. we have decided to put a country, a people against the wall, and from there we demand that it disarm completely, and that is us, or even more the united states, which produces, exports and uses weapons of mass destruction. it is quite another to do so in a joint effort for general disarmament. however, we heard it today, we heard it yesterday. what is to be done? discipline and disarm iraq! the european union must take a clear common position on the question of iraq. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is not a mere mere institutional institution, but a political one. but what will he do with these four limbs? but he is only invoking china and russia, mr president. of course they have a responsibility too, but what will the four of the european union do? the european union must also be able to say what will happen to the american bases in the territory of the european union, because thousands of troops are already being deployed in germany and sudan, ready to intervene, as they are in the region of iraq. is this the peace effort?
council the council has not taken a position on us ballistic missile defence plans and no member state has a position on this issue in the council. however, the member states of the european union supported the decision 'bilateral reduction of strategic nuclear weapons and the new strategic framework' submitted by the united states and the russian federation to the 57th session of the united nations general assembly. the resolution, adopted unanimously by the general assembly on 22 november 2002, refers to the new strategic relationship established between the united states and the russian federation following the expiry of the abm treaty.
mr president, it is rather strange that, at a time when the european union is trying to be present on the international scene, as the greek prime minister told us yesterday, it has not addressed the issue of the so-called anti-ballistic missile defence of the united states. it is a major issue, an issue which has preoccupied the global peace movement, which has condemned this attempt by the united states to militarize space to serve its own interests and indeed, if the european union does not condemn this action by the united states, it is in fact approving it.
as in the previous question, so in this question too the president-in-office of the council is avoiding, i do not know why, or perhaps i do know why, but in any case i do not want to mention it, to say anything about the united states. as you know, there were strong voices of protest here in parliament against the decision of the united states to denounce the abm and we all said that this would trigger a new round, a new arms race with enormous threats, enormous risks to world peace. so the question is: will the council intervene so that the united states can revoke this decision to deploy space rockets with all the associated risks? same as before: he told us about the bases: "i don't know, it wasn't in the question". he is greek! souda is in greece! what's up, man? we must at least answer, mr president!
mr president, the restrictive measures in the green paper on fisheries, the withdrawal and dismantling of vessels, quotas, etc., have led to the marginalisation of mediumsized and particularly small fishermen. i come from a region of greece with a developed small and medium-sized fisheries and therefore have personal experience of the above. at the same time, and not without reference to the above, the aquaculture sector is developing, with increasing penetration by big capital. i am not against aquaculture but against the unhealthy way in which it is developed without respecting basic health and environmental conditions, and unfortunately as aquaculture comes into the hands of big business, this unhealthiness grows. the report we are discussing reflects the growing importance of the sector. it sets out the conditions required for the development of aquaculture, such as the selection of sites, compliance with the principles of sustainable exploitation, advertising of the product, the existence of a level playing field, the introduction of certain health measures, protection against the introduction of genetically modified fish, respect for the environment, etc. the commission has already made a number of proposals on the subject. the substance of the problem and the issues that will inevitably arise in the future with the overcrowding of some enterprises with all the serious health problems and adverse to disastrous environmental impacts are not affected. the capitalist orientation and development of these enterprises and the dominance of the profit-maximizing hunter are already leading aquaculture, which is concentrated in the hands of large private capital, to methods of farming, livestock and fish feeding that are very negative for public health and the environment. the report leaves small producers, consumers and the environment exposed by failing to address these major problems. finally, as regards the appeal by our rapporteur to the greek presidency not to repeat the 'prestige' phenomena, i fear that he is addressing an unheard-of audience, because the greek government has repeatedly demonstrated its unbreakable ties with shipping capital.
in the course of the debate, i have been able to see that the greek foreign minister, mr solana, and mr patten today have been anxiously trying to keep the prospect of war open while at the same time playing up the opposition of our peoples to the possibility of war, which is categorical in all cases. the pro-war content of the famous common position of the european union is clearly signed by blair. if the european union were against the war against iraq, it would have vetoed it in the security council. member countries would not send frigates to the region and would not give the us the facilities it is asking for. they would insist on the un principle that excludes military action except in cases of self-defense, which is not the case with iraq. the european union is therefore merely trying to buy time to complete the bargain with the united states for control of oil. that's the thing, lies are bad. if iraq didn't have the black gold, maybe no one would care. the possibility of possession of weapons of mass destruction is the pretext. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. we communists have no sympathy for the bloodstained regime of saddam hussein. we have an open account with him, since his first victims were our thousands of iraqi comrades. but whether he stays in power or not is entirely a matter for the iraqi people. we must express our active political solidarity with the iraqi people. the european union must not allow the iraqi people to be forced to pay for the crimes of the past, and the iraqi people must not be forced to pay for the crimes of the past. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and we are therefore in favour of a new constitution. the demand is therefore to prevent criminal warfare at all costs, with or without a un resolution. yes to the peaceful solution of international problems. to stop all facilitation to the warmonger bush, the voice of multinational interests. to express our solidarity with the american people who are rising up more and more against the war.
mr president, the international political climate is extremely unfavourable. it is no exaggeration to say, paraphrasing tolstoy, that we are faced with a dilemma of war and peace. and so the dilemma, as some perceive it, for or against saddam hussein, is out of reality. we are in fact in the process of re-evaluating a crisis which began in 1979 with the iran-iraq war, continued with kuwait and is still going on. former allies have become adversaries and former adversaries have become allies. what are we doing? the european union must be based on principle and political commitment. the principle is that any decision must go through the un security council. and the political commitment is that at the un we must all be united. the general affairs council last monday first defined the european union's capabilities. i hope and wish that these possibilities will eventually become political. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. yes, it is. on the question of afghanistan, we stood together and we participated. but any american policy cannot automatically become a european policy. i'm going to ask you a simple question: is clinton's policy in the middle east, in iraq itself and elsewhere, identical to bush's policy? i'm not sure. in any case, the political autonomy of the european union, with the principles on which it is based, must be the cornerstone of mutual respect between america and europe. some questions are raised about how crises are dealt with. i'll remind you what we said about the middle east crisis. we were not heard in any way. there is the issue of democracy in the gulf countries, in iraq and elsewhere. it is not at present for me to go into that. but i would remind you that the democratic changes in central and eastern europe, where we now find our new partners, did not come about as a result of confrontation and conflict. they have emerged as a product of recession, improved relations and improved capacity of countries and peoples to move towards democracy.
mr president, if the european governments cannot reach a common position, as the greek presidency is striving to do, then let us send a strong and clear european voice from the european parliament against the war for oil, against unilateral intervention in violation of international law and contrary to the un resolutions and world public opinion. mr solana, yes, let's give the un inspectors what they want: time, resources, media and information. give peace another chance. unfortunately, wars and violence are the exclusive responsibility of you, the men who dominate the decision-making centres, while the victims of wars are mainly women and children. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. a war in iraq would not only be a crushing failure of diplomacy and politics, but it would also be a deterioration of the values of our civilization. it will also signal the inability of the old europe to set a different, new standard in the face of the logic and the culture of violence promoted by the united states. the european union must not be allowed to become a mere spectator, but must be a witness to the reality of the situation.
mr president, one cannot but agree with the general principles developed by the president of the council and the commissioner, but let us be careful about their application. and i have three observations here. first, we must not be in one country, petty therapists and in another, ruthless prosecutors. the criteria applied to turkey should be applied to iran, or the criteria applied to iran should be applied to turkey. and since the speech is about turkey, it's time leyla zana, our colleague, the woman, the sakharov prize, saw the light of freedom. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, the united states. in the united states, apart from what the commissioner said, there is the issue of the death penalty and we must put it in the same way as we have put it in other countries. and since we're talking about the european union's rivalry with the united states, i say it might be time to give a 2003 sakharov prize to an american: the former governor of illinois, who pardoned 150 death row inmates. thirdly, let us look at the new rights affected by the measures against terrorism.
mr president, it is indeed tragic that after 50 years of development aid, we find that not a single country has escaped from underdevelopment and poverty. many argue that globalization is the cause of the economic situation of the poorest countries. the truth is that the north's protectionist policy is contributing to the strangulation of key sectors of the south. the notion that poor countries can match the incomes of rich countries without international trade, without capital inflows and investments, is completely wrong. if poor countries rely on their own savings or wait to develop their own technology and skills, it will take them centuries. a society where a few become very rich and many very poor cannot really progress. hunger and extreme poverty are predominantly female, making racial inequality a major barrier to development. over the last decade, there has been an increase in women living in extreme poverty, which is linked to reproductive health problems, as the poorest women also have less access to health services and more unwanted children. almost half a million of all maternal deaths are in the developing world, and they die not because they choose to be mothers, but because they are poor. the chance of a woman dying from such causes is less than one in three thousand women in developed countries and as high as one in nineteen in africa. these numbers suggest that the benefits of globalization have not reached a large number of people. continuing poverty is holding this process back through open trade. the only solution is to defeat the two greatest enemies, on the one hand the resistance of many political leaders in the north who refuse to remove the barriers to the free movement of goods and people, and on the other the resistance of many political leaders in the south who refuse to give their citizens basic political, economic and human rights, which are a necessary condition for development.
mr president, on a point of order, i would like to draw the attention of the house to a joint statement by the communist, workers and left parties against the aggressive war on iraq. the statement, signed so far by 60 parties from five continents, notes among other things, that: ‘aggression against iraq, which is based on the new us doctrine of pre-emptive strikes, threatens to destabilise the whole region and bring grave consequences for human civilisation as a whole. it poses a huge threat to international peace and the system of international law, and creates a precedent for other arbitrary acts of aggression.’ the statement concludes: ‘we must stop the aggressive war on iraq. we must warn against attempts by the big powers to blackmail the united nations. we must oppose any form of european support for the war or participation in it. we demand that our countries do not provide the united states with military or other facilities to carry out its aggressive aims’. the question is, what will the european parliament do to avert a war, in conformity with the wish of the overwhelming majority of the people of europe? what will the european parliament do to ensure that no member state provides any assistance to the united states if they follow the path of war? i will submit a copy of the full text of the joint statement to the secretariat.
mr president, the leaders of the united states and britain, unfortunately with the complicity of many if not all of the governments of the nato and european union members, are moving towards a general attack against the iraqi people with incalculable consequences for them and for the whole world. to support the attack, they submitted to the un unsubstantiated or outdated evidence drawn from either the cia's forgery lab or student studies or 1990 phone hacks, as the us ambassador to greece admitted to reporters earlier today. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. in the spirit of the feelings of the vast majority of our people, who rise up every day, we declare: no to the war and the embargo against iraq! the right of the iraqi people to determine their own future must be respected! no more using the un to legitimize blackmail! the crime can be prevented, mr president, and the problem is whether the european parliament will abandon its tolerance or pontius pilate attitude and take a clear stand against this criminal war.
mr president, the european union's intention to sacrifice small and mediumsized farmers and support for agriculture at european union level to the world trade organisation is obvious. the principle that the european union should take decisions on is that the interests of big business and multinationals should be served in the best possible way. the forthcoming, disastrous, in-depth and not interim, as claimed, review of the cap is being done in the light of and under pressure from the wto negotiations. the proposed wto agreement accelerates the liberalization of international trade in agricultural products on the pretext that it will increase international trade and benefit developing countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. international trade in agricultural products may have increased, wealth may have increased, but developing countries and their people have not only not benefited, but have been left worse off, with no room for growth, even for high-productivity countries like argentina. in contrast, multinational companies that produce and market agricultural products have increased their profits dramatically. the wto agreement will be similarly affected for three main reasons: the first relates to the pro-monopoly direction, such as gatt. the second concerns the international system of prices and subsidies for agricultural products, but also the international system of prices for industrial products. rich countries buy cheap agricultural products and sell expensive industrial products including medicines. the third reason is the relations of production and ownership of agricultural products in many developing countries, where agricultural land and agricultural products are owned by large multinationals, which produce them on a starvation wage. that is why the communist party of greece opposes the proposed agreement and does everything it can to coordinate the struggle of all the popular strata of all the countries for an international trade based on equality and mutual benefit.
mr president, commissioner, the general slogan of the wto negotiating framework for our agricultural policy is 'no more big words, but concrete proposals'. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. the whole package of the european union's offer in the forthcoming wto negotiations gives the initiative to the european union. the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the internal market, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we must know, for example, what other developed countries will do and what must be guaranteed in the european union's system of protecting farmers. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in cereals, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, is a step in the right direction. secondly, the revision of the common agricultural policy, the general philosophy of which the socialists share, must not be at the cost of any mistaken concessions in the negotiations. thirdly, as regards the environmental dimension of rural development, the ecological balance, the hygiene of foodstuffs, etc., the european union must seek a common clause for all countries based on its own standards. it is not useful, nor will it be acceptable, for example, to facilitate imports of agricultural products from developing countries when they do not meet the quality standards of the union. finally, it is not in the interests of poor countries and their farmers if we succeed in raising the income of farmers in poor countries, just so that the developed countries can sell more easily, for example, their expensive aids drugs. the negotiations are not just spectacular proposals of good will, but a tough confrontation to secure social benefits, to serve the general social interest through a particular type of negotiation.
the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. the commission proposal for a directive on the free movement of persons is undoubtedly an important step towards removing the technical barriers which still exist, even today, in a united europe. the european parliament is of course substantially improving the commission's original proposal through the amendments it has tabled. the amendments tabled by the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities aim to improve a number of issues that will strengthen the position of women in the context of free movement, taking into account the particular problems faced by women and the principle of non-discrimination on the basis of sex. unfortunately, commissioner, the text of your proposal, which aims to establish the unhindered and free exercise of the right of residence of european citizens, has failed to formulate a text that is gender neutral and takes account of the particular problems faced by women. the greatest problem arises for women who are financially dependent on their husbands, since in the event of their death or dissolution of marriage they have no prospect of extending or continuing their residence in another european country. in other words, they are automatically deprived of any legal right deriving from residence in another member state of the union. we feel that this should be corrected. the committee on women's rights also stresses the importance of moving forward with the protection of other forms of interpersonal relationships, such as the recognition of free cohabitation with a declared partner, regardless of sex, as a relationship equal to marriage. it is known that more and more member states recognise in various ways couples living together without having been legally married. a key element common to the relevant national legislation is the official registration of the partner, so it is necessary to include this category in the definitions of family member.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. mr president, i would like to inform the house that my report concerns the initiative of spain, which aims to simplify procedures and minimise schengen bureaucracy by allowing the issuing of collective visas at the external borders to seamen in transit, to facilitate member states with a maritime fleet. my report improves considerably on the original proposal, since it ensures the protection of individual citizens' rights and personal data on the basis of the relevant schengen provisions, on which the regulation in question is based. i also change the wording of the report to make it gender neutral, because we know that a lot of women have entered the maritime profession recently. most importantly, we have rejected the criterion of common nationality, as there is no sufficient justification to require seafarers to have the same nationality in order to be granted a collective visa. the report proposes that a group of seafarers of between five and fifty persons, even if they are not of the same nationality, be granted a group visa for a short period of time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not affected by the crisis.
- mr president, i tabled amendment no 6 which will become obsolete if amendment no 3 is voted on. in my amendment, i wanted to call for the immediate opening of a dialogue between the european union and belarus in the fight against crime and human trafficking. amendment no 3 makes it a precondition that belarus fulfils all the conditions set out in the report, which means that this cooperation in the fight against crime will not begin for several years, whereas it should start now. i propose that you vote on my amendment before amendment no 3 or that you vote by division and vote on the phrase 'as soon as the basic conditions are met' separately. i urge you to vote against this segment, because i think that cooperation of this kind, focused on the fight against crime, must begin immediately, whatever the conditions in the country concerned.
- mr president, amendment no 3 has not been tabled in the committee on foreign affairs. the only amendment tabled in the committee on foreign affairs is amendment no 6.
in writing. - (el) we are moving in the right direction in wanting to guarantee european citizens freedom of movement and residence within the community; i therefore support this proposal. it increases the opportunities for citizens to exercise their right to move freely throughout the community by calling for simplification and reduction of procedures. of course, making a stay of more than six months dependent on financial resources could give rise to social discrimination. the directive, by extending the definition of family member to include same-sex or unmarried partners, reflects more fully the diversity of family relationships in today's society. finally, greater flexibility is needed for students studying abroad; the length of studies at present could be considered sufficient grounds for granting a residence permit.
in writing. - (el) belarus has isolated itself from the international community because of the autocratic policy of its regime. this policy includes persecuting the opposition, restricting freedom of the press and trade union rights, imprisoning, mistreating and suppressing political opponents and applying the death penalty. belarus must start to democratize if it is to be able to ratify the eu-belarus partnership and cooperation agreement in the relatively near future. it goes without saying that the european parliament's call for democratization must not conceal an attempt by the eu to undermine belarus' right to decide its own foreign policy.
in writing. - (el) the greek communist party meps voted against this report on belarus because it constitutes a monumental intervention by the eu in the internal affairs of an independent country. for the eu, the problem is not democracy but the fact that belarus insists on respect for international law, territorial integrity and national sovereignty and refuses to sell to multinationals. the report - and this is pure blackmail - makes future relations with belarus dependent on its immediate transition to a market economy and even calls for cooperation with the united states in an attempt to make its intervention - which today can mean anything and everything, including military intervention - more effective. there is a problem in belarus with regard to human rights and democratic freedoms. however, this concerns only the belarusian people and does not justify any outside intervention. the so-called democratic freedoms which the international imperialist organizations and this report are trying to blackmail belarus into accepting are the freedom of action of big business and the freedom to erase all the achievements of the socialist regime. this is clear from the fact that the amendment proposed by the meps of the greek communist party, which called for the eu to cooperate directly with belarus in combating human trafficking, was rejected in favour of an amendment calling on belarus to follow the eu line.
commission. – i want to make it absolutely clear that the commission shares the honourable member's indignation at the circumstances surrounding the detention of ms touria tiouli. she is a french citizen of moroccan extraction, who has been held against her will in dubai since 15 october 2002. i have read the papers myself and i can well understand why the honourable member has raised this issue. the commission is following developments extremely closely. it is up to the competent authorities of the member state whose citizen is affected to take all the necessary steps to support that citizen's cause. as far as the commission knows, the french government is doing everything possible to put an end to this unfortunate situation. the commission is willing to lend its support should the french authorities consider it necessary and appropriate. i can assure the honourable member that we are reacting in the way the situation dictates, and that we will keep it under review.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have had a welcome development, of course, the emirati court acquitted ms tiuli of the charges brought against her by her rapists, but her adventure is not yet over, because it will be 15 days after the verdict. the decision was taken on 26 january and, if i am not mistaken, today is the 15th day and we must see whether she will be granted her passport so that she can leave the country. i would like to ask you, commissioner, whether you intend, in cooperation with the french government and the french consulate in the united arab emirates, to use your authority and prestige as commissioner of the european union to put an end to the incredible adventure of this woman, a french national.
commission. – i am delighted that the honourable member is with us; it gives me an opportunity to answer a question about which i am concerned. it must be said that my colleague, commissioner solbes mira, is also very grateful that the honourable member is with us since it gives him a couple of minutes to get down from the commission meeting, which is still continuing. let me turn to the honourable member's important question. the commission recognises the importance of enhancing the role of women in economic life in the partner countries around the mediterranean. that was why we welcomed and supported the meeting held in july 2001 on this subject under the belgian presidency of the council. as a result of that meeting, the commission included, among others, a regional programme on this subject under the meda regional indicative programme for 2002-2004. in the context of limited resources, the commission has to make difficult choices among priorities. only about 10% of the meda programme is available for regional activities and this has to cover everything from supporting the rule of law and good governance to activities to promote regional integration and trade, plans for infrastructure interconnection and regulatory harmonisation, the dialogue of cultures and civilisations, support for judicial cooperation, the fight against organised crime and terrorism and activities related to migration. in these circumstances, the programme on 'the role of women in economic life' has been programmed for the year 2004 within the regional indicative programme, with funding of eur 5 million. in order to permit the launching of the programme in 2004, the identification and preparatory phase began in december last year and will end in april or may 2003 with a meda regional workshop. in order to speed up the effective implementation of the programme, a call for proposals with a suspension clause will be published during the second half of 2003 on the basis of the results of that workshop. the regional financing plan for 2004 should be presented to the med committee before the end of 2003 in order to permit the financing of the selected projects in the following year.
i thank you, commissioner, for your answer. i have a feeling you haven't said anything new again. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he thinks that the delay and the small budget which this programme has involved really show that the european commission is taking seriously the issue of gender equality and the participation of women in this ambitious and very important project for us, the development of genuine euro-mediterranean cooperation? is this a side project of the whole project, as it is treated so belatedly and with a pittance? the commission's commitment is sufficient, do you think? shouldn't there be something more, something more generous, that is not only about the economic inclusion of women, like some micro-credit, a job, education, but something more that ensures and funds mechanisms to monitor the equal legal treatment of issues and challenges?
the commission. greece's debt ratio is one of the highest in the community. it increased until the mid-1990s, peaking at over 110% of gdp in 1996. this was a consequence of growing budgetary imbalances and low growth in gross domestic product. stabilisation efforts with a view to participation in monetary union and improvements in key macroeconomic indicators have contributed to a reduction in the debt ratio, albeit at a very slow pace. the debt still represents 107% of gdp in 2001. three factors have influenced this development: the level of the primary balance, i.e. after financial payments, the growth rate of nominal gross domestic product and other autonomous or residual factors. these include financial operations which affect the volume of debt rather than the budget balance. in fact, the high level of adjustment of the debt ratio, which reached 7,1% of gdp in 2001 - and is still estimated at 4% of gdp in 2002 - meant that the evolution of the debt ratio did not fully reflect the evolution of the general government budgetary position, the achievement of rising high primary surpluses or the growth of gdp. moreover, the evolution of the public debt as described in the greek stability programme for 2002 has been partly affected by the revision of the statistical methods used in various financial transactions. this review was carried out in accordance with the system established by eurostat to meet the conditions set out in the esa 95, in our european system of national accounts. the statistical review carried out in 2002 resulted in an increase in the debt ratio in greece in 2001, which was 7 percentage points higher than the previously estimated figure. taking into account the new budgetary outlook resulting from this review, the updated stability programme envisages a reduction in the debt ratio equivalent to 1,7 percentage points in 2002, with an acceleration of this reduction from 2003 onwards, with a reduction of approximately 0,4 percentage points until the end of 2006. in fact, from 2003 onwards, the change in the debt ratio will correspond more closely to the level of the primary surplus. according to the commission's economic forecasts last autumn, greece's debt ratio is expected to decline until the end of 2004, albeit at a slower pace than the 2002 stability programme. for the period after 2004, when the updated stabilisation programme already allows for some decline in real output growth, a credible budgetary adjustment strategy will be necessary to ensure that the debt ratio envisaged in the programme is reduced. in this respect, the increased transparency of the public accounts achieved by the recent revision of the public accounts has increased the credibility of the public accounts and the budgetary adjustment strategy outlined in the greek stability programme.
mr president, first of all, thank you very much for your flexibility. i would also like to thank the commissioner for his extensive reply. but when he talks about a strategy in the event of a fall in gdp growth, what do he consider to be the main features of that strategy? and if a new fact, namely the consequences of a possible war in iraq on gdp, how should this be taken into account?
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mrs palacio for the fact that we are discussing the white paper on transport, which is really a consolidated work by the commission and allows us to think ahead to 2010. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr izquierdo collado, for his work and i think that tomorrow we will be able to bring all the political groups together to vote on some of the points which are particularly important for the future of transport in the european union. i personally believe that the principles which should guide us in the immediate future in the development of european transport are the completion of the single market, the promotion of competition and particularly the promotion of the liberalisation of transport where this has not yet been done, the concern for safety in all forms of transport and also the priority to protect the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. first of all, the debate on transeuropean networks must at some point be transformed from mere debate into a real debate, i.e. the transeuropean networks must be promoted in practice, and this requires political will on the part of the member states on the one hand and funding from both national and community resources on the other. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transeuropean networks are not simply a means of transport, but also a means of transport for the benefit of the citizens of europe. secondly, we need to open up the railway market. mr president, the council must also move forward as quickly as possible with the second railway package on the basis of parliament's proposals, so that we have something substantial to show in the railway sector as a european union. thirdly, we must strengthen short sea shipping. it is particularly important, especially for certain areas of the european union, and it certainly helps to protect the environment. fourthly, in this debate we must not forget the special role that the peripheral regions of the european union and the island regions must play in order to ensure a balanced development of transport networks within the union. fifthly, road safety. the group of the european people's party is not unanimous on this issue. i am personally in favour of having a road safety service, because every year, at european level, 40 000 people go missing, and i really think that at european level, without prejudice to subsidiarity, we must do something. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must look at the matter, but we must be very careful because it is a rather controversial matter and the commission must go through a lot of thought before it proceeds with its proposals.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. under different circumstances this progress could be translated into welfare for society as a whole. but within the framework of the capitalist system, scientific progress is put at the service of the market, not at the service of society. it is developing in the context of the privatisation and commercialisation of services that were once public: welfare, health, even culture and education. the european union has decided in lisbon to suffocate under the shackles of the more competitive knowledge society. in short, it becomes a source of profit for a few rather than a source of prosperity for the many. in these circumstances, the positive remarks made in the paasilinna report about disadvantaged social groups at risk of being excluded from the information society have little practical value. if such risks exist for remote areas, for people with disabilities, etc., what about the army of the unemployed, the large army of the underemployed, the even larger army of the low-paid? what value will telematic health services and the infamous european card have for them? who will be able to provide such services? the family doctor or the multinational corporations that increasingly undermine health? will the development of third-generation services or european operating systems solve the problem? in conclusion, i cannot but support the proposal to create a market for public sector documents. in the european union, where everything is bought and everything is sold, where a market has been created for radio spectrum, even a market for air pollutants and for pollution rights, we also have a market for public documents. i admire the commission's business ingenuity and wonder with horror who will be the market's next victim? what about the air we breathe?
i would like to thank president prodi for once again underlining, as he usually does, research and training and their importance in the context of the lisbon process. i would also like to congratulate him on raising the problem of the war in iraq, which affects the atmosphere and is closely linked to the political and economic future of europe today. the expectations of the lisbon process were initially high. however, in the area of education, research, lifelong learning and training, implementation does not seem to be producing the desired results. the 3% in research was an important target and the commission is to be commended for having managed to reach consensus, but we are approaching it with our feet tied and we cannot take the necessary step every year. we talk a lot about training, but the private sector spends only 2.3% on investment in training. the progress in investments in lifelong learning, school dropout, and the social groups of immigrants, unfortunately, cannot be optimistic. the atmosphere in which all this is taking place is one of discouragement to university researchers and educators. that is because decisions are not followed by the necessary policies for implementation. education and training are unfortunately not at the top of the agenda, even in lisbon. we believe, however, that they should retain their place at the centre of the policies as they were formulated in the original lisbon plan.
mr president, it is clear that the crisis which is currently afflicting the european union and the whole capitalist system cannot be tackled by the measures proposed for the spring council. it's bound to get worse. the united states, with the direct or indirect complicity of the european union, seems determined to carry out its threats of war now in iraq and later on who knows where. the aim: to redistribute markets and control energy sources in the context of the united states' frantic quest for world domination. the european union and the governments of the member states are trying to foster hope for the future, but the popular masses are daily experiencing firsthand the brutality of the system and the anti-worker and anti-people character of its measures. the european union itself and the other international economic organizations admit the utter failure of the liberal policies being pursued. the current substantial stagnation and the decline in production and growth indicators can no longer be reversed by stability pacts. it is becoming clear that the european union's notorious social policy of reducing labour costs, shrinking or even abolishing workers' gains, is not bringing development or bringing the capitalist system out of its inherent crisis, even on its own terms. the failure of the lisbon and stockholm employment targets proves how right we were when we said that they were not aimed at tackling unemployment but were an escalation of the attack on workers' rights, new privileges for big business. the obsession with privatisation and liberalization, including in the health and education sectors, and the surrender of the funds of the social security funds to big business, are also aimed at increasing profits in times of crisis. the only way forward, mr president, is an even greater, more massive and more dynamic anti-monopoly, anti-imperialist mobilization of the workers at national and international level to create a new balance of power which will overturn the present bleak situation and open the way to another, diametrically opposed policy for our peoples.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, the letter, mr president-in-office of the council, addressed to you by the three prime ministers of the three major economies of europe, mr chirac, mr blair and mr schroeder, highlights the importance of this spring's council in something which is more than a matter of mere routine and the conduct of an ordinary procedure. it is a symbol of european unity at a time when this unity is being tested very hard, and perhaps also as a beacon of hope. the letter is praiseworthy because it gives the weight it needs to industry, which not only produces 25% of the european gross product but also employs 45 million people, and in an era when there is a lot of talk about services, about knowledge and all that, it is good to remember that there is also a more tangible and tangible background in the economy, and also put on a proper footing the issue of public services, which are a necessary background, an infrastructure essential to the economy and must be maintained in the european way and not in other ways that can lead to their disintegration, as they have led to in certain sectors in the united states. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this respect, 2003 is a transitional year under the lisbon programme. the legislation on the integration of stock markets must be completed and perhaps the commission could tell us whether it is optimistic that this deadline will at least be met. the prime ministers also stressed the need to achieve a high level of employment. it is good to remember that lisbon was talking about full employment and not high employment, and it is good to maintain that ambition. there is, of course, the question of investment. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. this optimism is crucial.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the european commission, the lisbon strategy, a necessary mechanism for making the european union the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, is perhaps more timely than ever. the social consequences of a possible military intervention in iraq, as well as its consequences for the european economy, are a matter of great concern. but what is the situation inside the union that makes it itself a prisoner of external developments? the commission's report is a good example of the need to ensure that the member states are able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the new open method of coordination is applied at all levels of the union. in particular, the steps towards the objective of sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion, which we set in 2000, are not considered satisfactory. it is characteristic that in the field of employment, as well as competitiveness, there were member states which completely failed to meet the targets, with the result that we are talking about not achieving the objective set by the union for the lisbon strategy and programme. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission will also be supporting the development of a european environmental policy, which will include the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency and the establishment of a european environment agency. the need to implement sustainable development in the context of european integration is becoming more urgent under the pressure of both the enlargement process, the revision of the union's treaties and, of course, globalisation. but i would like to focus and emphasize once again the following: i believe and appreciate that the european union is lagging behind in matters of science and technology, and in particular biotechnology. without scientific and technological progress and innovation, we will not be able to meet the challenges, the nutritional, medical, environmental, socio-economic challenges. science and technology are the key to tackling the major problems of human societies. this has always been the basic element in man's history and still is today. research, therefore, scientific, technological and all related, education, training, training, is absolutely necessary. and in my opinion, mr president-in-office of the council, you should be promoting scientific and technological research decisively - as the president of the commission said - because i believe it is the most important tool for the ultimate success of the lisbon policy, strategy and programme.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is obvious that the lisbon process, the lisbon strategy, if anything - and i will not share the opinion of many other colleagues - is not a complete failure. but at least it hasn't moved on. her growth and her pace are obviously not enough. the recession affecting the economies, and particularly those sectors of the new economy on which, to say nothing of the other, the hopes for the lisbon strategy were based with a certain amount of over-optimism, are characteristics which, i think, we cannot attribute to everything. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we should already be in full monitoring and development of the johannesburg consequences. i think even the word and the town have been forgotten. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a letter that calls for revision, and revision in the wrong direction. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. i'm not against collusion. but what are you going to do about the chemicals legislation? what will you do about the new environmental liability legislation, which is, in a way, a restriction which is also part of the strategy of sustainable development, etc. are we gonna put these in the panda ? i think he needs an answer. if not now, during the summit. but, in any case, it needs a clear answer. it is obvious that war, or rather, to avoid ridicule, the invasion of iraq, can make all this worse. and it is certainly difficult to go into detail and discuss strategy for the follow-up to lisbon. however, there are some questions, mr president. have you considered bringing back into the discussion the general reduction of working hours to create more jobs? the financing of the development of the so-called third sector? the updating of the ideas contained in the white paper, which was the last time we had a concrete and integrated thought in the european union, for example on transeuropean networks, on changing taxation (to shift it from a burden on employment to a burden on the use of natural resources, etc.). are we going to put all this back on the table in light of the failures we've had so far, or have we forgotten all about it?
in writing. - (el) it is clear from the debate and most of the motions for resolutions that the idea is to draw a parallel between porto alegre and the davos economic forum because both are seeking a better method of global governance. but the reality is very different. even though some people have tried to downplay it and others have tried to steer it towards system management or turn it into a meaningless discussion club, the movement against capitalist globalization was very clearly opposed to imperialist war and global social injustice in porto alegre. this movement didn't just come out of nowhere; it is born of the struggle of the workers and the working class and is inspired by their experience and their messages. even with a great deal of imagination, we cannot say that this is a collaboration between different social classes, as the social democrats try to make us believe by relying on the idea that the socialist/capitalist division no longer exists. nor is it limited to defending the rights of developing countries, because today the people of the developed world are more than ever in the crosshairs of plutocracies. the gap is widening within capitalist society, which will inevitably lead to a radicalization of the popular masses who are and will always be the driving forces behind social evolution.
in writing. - (el) the spread of diseases such as hiv/aids and epidemics in the developed world has reached the proportions of genocide. unfortunately, the international community continues to try to deal with this problem by keeping a close eye on the interests of the big multinational pharmaceutical companies. recently, the european union has taken a series of positive initiatives within the world trade organization to enable underdeveloped countries to use so-called generic medicines to treat all these terrible attacks on the health of their populations. the european parliament's resolution is an acceptable contribution in this direction.
in writing. - (el) the commission proposal and report follow and extend the policy set out in the white paper on competitiveness by advocating the total liberalisation of the transport market. the ultimate aim is to increase the return on capital. the declarations on transport safety and environmental protection are being overridden by the philosophy of increased competition. the report welcomes the considerable progress made in the area of liberalisation and competitiveness of transport. using demand as a criterion, it highlights the advantages of road transport and proposes the creation of high capacity south-north and east-west corridors. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. it also supports market access for port services and stresses the need for a uniform tax and cost policy in the transport sector. the commission and the report are not concerned with the impact that this policy has and will have on transport standards, safety and cost to the public. it supports the single european sky, the abolition of national flight information regions (firs) and the flexible use of airspace, both civil and military; the european union has a duty to help the countries of the region to develop their economic and social cohesion.
in writing. - (el) unfortunately, the prospects and expectations of lisbon are far from the situation on the ground in europe. not only has europe failed to take the lead in the most important technologies, but it is still as far behind the united states as it has been in the past, growth is slowing, unemployment is rising, new sciences are struggling to gain market share and regional disparities are still present. unfortunately, the council does not seem to have any coherent proposals or programme and the proposals of the french, german and british leaders are confined to the industrial sector. the spring european council will have to establish new priorities adapted to the current climate of economic recession and international tensions, including a relaxation of the criteria of the stability pact, tax incentives to stimulate labour-intensive activities, special incentives to help regions lagging behind in new technologies, joint interventions to improve education systems and monitoring the implementation of the eeurope action plan objectives in each member state.
mr president, the problem of iraq is a complex one which must be resolved with the widest possible consensus of the international community, given the open wound of terrorism which can be reinforced by choosing to act without the legitimacy of the security council. that means that first of all there must be full implementation of security council resolution 1441 on iraq, and on this occasion i would say that it would be good for the international order and the credibility of the united nations to have all its decisions implemented. there is no doubt that we have an international crisis from iraq's non-compliance with that decision. this is why it is necessary for saddam hussein, who has in the past demonstrated how dangerous he is by ruthlessly using biological and chemical weapons even against civilians, to cooperate with the international community and provide all information to the un inspectors on weapons of mass destruction. moreover, iraq is governed in a dictatorial manner. without respect for human rights and democracy. the european parliament has been at the forefront of defending human rights and fundamental freedoms and therefore cannot tolerate this situation. the second point i would like to make is that the peaceful and diplomatic means of iraq's compliance have been exhausted. international peace and security must be safeguarded and actions taken at international level must not undermine the credibility of the un and the security council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, the international crisis is highlighting the union's weakness and i believe that the greek presidency must not only seek to adopt a common position for the 15 within the framework of the cfsp, but also include the acceding countries, if possible, in the common position. the actions which are increasing the polarization of the international community by creating frontal axes must be stopped, because the union's solvency and the cfsp will be hit hard if there is no common line on the iraq problem.
- the next item is the oral questions to the council and the commission (b5-2/2003 and b5-3/2003) on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the annual debate on the area of freedom, security and justice in 2002.
council mr president, i should like to stress at the outset of this brief appendix that the statements made by the members of parliament here have been of particular use to the council and to me personally as president of the council. i believe that this is largely the concern of the european citizens. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the european union is a great example of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the internal market, including the creation of a european market for the supply of services. we should not shift the centre of gravity in one direction only, because security is clearly an inalienable right and a primary right of every citizen, but we should not shift the centre of gravity by creating the risk of shrinking or i would say even neglecting and even diminishing human rights and freedoms. i have stressed and i repeat that during the greek presidency we will give particular importance to finding this necessary balance, and that is why we have included, as i said in my opening statement, in the subjects to be discussed in the informal council, the specific subjects relating to freedoms and concerning the freedoms, even of suspects or accused persons. the second issue to be discussed in the informal council, by the way, is the one which is of immediate interest to all of us at the moment: the course of europe, that is, the development of the debate on the future of europe. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. it is a position which concerns us all, as regards how to find a way of protecting, guarding and controlling the european borders, the external borders of the european union, and this is particularly so for my country, which is holding the presidency this semester and which is of particular importance because of its geographical position and the particular characteristics of its borders. we have a certain experience, i would say, and that is why a subject which is being discussed and will be discussed is the distribution of the burdens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the needs of the people of europe, and that the european union is able to meet the needs of the people of europe. it will even worsen the position of those already in the european union. but that does not mean that we should not be concerned and that we should not be more concerned about the rights of immigrants already in the european union. after all, after decades of experience in welcoming migrants, we as europe should move faster towards the possibility of a smoother and faster integration of migrants already here in europe, that is, integration into the societies of the host countries. i would like to conclude, mr president, by briefly answering the question whether there is a risk of a mass influx of refugees following what may be happening in iraq. the risk of a massive influx of refugees from outside the european union is, i would say, a daily reality and there are discussions in the relevant committees, and community financial support and fair burden-sharing should, in my view, be in place regardless of what developments take place in iraq. we all hope, of course, that developments will not lead to events which will lead to further mass movements and flows of refugees towards the european union. in other words, we hope that peace will be maintained and that we will not have to face such difficult situations, which we all know have, in addition to all the other negative effects, the challenge of mass movements and flows of migrants.
commission. – mr president, i wish to begin by thanking all those who have contributed to this debate and, above all, baroness ludford for her excellent contribution. i shall just address a few of the questions raised during the debate, starting with a remark by mr schulz. we should all resist the temptation to reduce the debate on asylum and migration to a purely ideological debate. it is indeed tempting and very easy to do this by using slogans to manipulate emotions. however, if we reduce the debate to such positions, i wonder whether we are really addressing the dramatic problems that asylum and migration raise for thousands of people all over the world and especially in the european union. it might even be tempting to make the commission the bad guy. i am used to performing several roles, but this would be a new one for me. however, the commission has always tried to put forward the right balance between an efficient policy combating illegal migration and, at the same time, defining the grass roots of a proactive, positive policy on migration. this is not for ideological reasons. we believe that if we do not succeed in having a clear, transparent and coordinated policy on legal migration, we will not succeed in the fight against trafficking in human beings and illegal migration. if i appear too generous, i would like to recall that the commission put forward a proposal for a framework decision on combating trafficking in human beings. the commission presented the action plan on illegal migration that was taken on board by the council. the commission presented the action plan on external border controls that was taken on board by the council. the commission presented the proposal on the return action plan. the commission made the proposal on a new schengen information system. the commission proposed the creation of a visa database. if this is being too generous, i admit that i have some differences with some members regarding the notion of generosity. when it comes to the new terrorist threat, as mr queiró has emphasised, we recognise that we are confronted with a phenomenon we know little about. we are not yet at the stage of being prepared to face the new profile of the terrorist threat, not only as far as the possibility of terrorist attacks is concerned - and one must be prepared for whatever might happen in the near future, in the light of the evolution of international events - but also in terms of a key question you have raised: the financing of the terrorist networks. therefore i hope that during 2003, member states will be able to make effective progress in achieving concrete results and adopt legislation to combat the financing of terrorism. this should include not only the illegal financing of terrorism, but also the 'legal' financing of terrorism in the european union, including offshore centres on its territory. i would like to confirm to mrs terrón i cusí that the commission intends to set up a network of experts during spring 2003, thus following up the brussels declaration. i now turn to the issue raised by mr coehlo. difficulties abound in dealing with certain specific and very sensitive issues because we have a split between the first and third pillars; data protection is a very good example of this. we should emphasise that there is a clear sign from the european convention that the values of freedom, security and justice cannot be held hostage by a schizophrenic division between pillars that is blocking us every day. finally, on the very important issue raised by mr pirker, i can guarantee that we are preparing for the possibility of a mass influx. i do not want to anticipate the evolution of international events, but we have learned much from the experience in kosovo. we have the directive on temporary protection. it has been transposed into national legislation by sweden, finland and belgium, and other member states already have provisions in their national legislation concerning sudden influxes of migrants and refugees. therefore, to deal with the most urgent situations we can mobilise, in the very short term, the reserve of the fund for european refugees. my colleague, commissioner nielson, together with echo, and in close coordination with unhcr, is looking at the possibility of supporting refugees in the region. i hope that this time things will work much better, thanks to the progress that has been achieved as far as temporary protection is concerned. i would like to pay my sincere respects to parliament. if we have problems in terms of progress during this year parliament cannot be blamed for any kind of delay. it has always given its opinions on time.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place on 11 march.
- the agenda calls for the joint discussion of 9 questions by the council and the commission on the harmful effects of unexploded ordnance (antipersonnel mines and cluster bombs) and depleted uranium munitions.
mr president, i shall not go into the mines. the point is obvious. we have all seen images on television of children being mutilated, and more recently in many parts of the former yugoslavia. i shall devote the bulk of my speech to depleted uranium. natural uranium contains more than 99% of the isotope uranium 238 and very little uranium 235. uranium 235 is the one that is very good for fuel in nuclear reactors and is also used as a material in nuclear weapons. so it enriches the material to uranium 235 and what's left, the residue, which is mostly uranium 238, is the depleted uranium. this depleted uranium is used because it's very dense, it has a penetrating capacity, when used in bombs, they can go through floors, they can go through tank casings and so on. but it has the disadvantage that it evaporates in the explosion. and when it evaporates, most of it oxidizes. these oxides lead to soluble uranium salts that exist in a range of 10-15 kilometers and many times with the winds these can be carried several hundred kilometers, they can be inhaled, they can go into the water etc. the problem with uranium 238 is that while it has very weak a-radiation, meaning that i can hold it in my hand and not get any damage, if i inhale it, because there are phagocytes in the body that take these particles, they irradiate these cells very close to their genetic material, and that's where any dangerous energy of this depleted uranium is attributed. of course, the studies that have been carried out are not 100% proof of this action of uranium, but there are still many incidents which should make us very, very careful. that is exactly what parliament's resolution says, that because there are very likely to be public health risks and dangerous effects from exposure to depleted uranium, it would be good for the commission (that is point 7) to monitor exactly these investigations and everything related to depleted uranium and the possible widespread environmental pollution and the long-term risk to human health. it is quite logical that our parliament should be concerned with these kinds of matters, which it is good to take into account in order to avoid the use of these munitions because, i repeat, they have this great disadvantage. also, this depleted uranium has a lifespan of thousands of years. once some areas are infected, the contamination will remain for thousands of years. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's nuclear safety is not compromised by the use of chemical weapons. for all these reasons, i would like to ask my colleagues to vote in favour of this resolution, which i think, both on mines and on depleted uranium munitions, is exactly in line with the realities of today. i think that the european parliament should vote on it and the commission should also take up this matter and monitor it. i hope that the council and the greek presidency will do the same to help ottawa to ratify the convention, so that we do not have the use of landmines, but also for a moratorium, and possibly later for a complete cessation of the use of depleted uranium munitions.
council mr president, thank you. i shall confine myself to a single point, because a question has been raised in connection with greece and the antipersonnel mine convention. i would like to inform you that the greek government has signed the convention. the convention has been ratified by the greek parliament and i was not clear on the implications or the issues raised in the speeches of the two speakers.
commission. – mr president, perhaps i might deal with a few of the issues that were addressed, particularly in relation to health matters. this issue, as i indicated earlier, has been considered not just by the commission, and not just by the council of ministers, but also by parliament. as i mentioned earlier, the stoa report of may 2001 concluded, among other things, that in the light of the epidemiological studies on persons exposed to depleted uranium in iraq and the balkans, among a relatively small group of soldiers, who evidently had been exposed to depleted uranium during the gulf war, no health problems attributable to depleted uranium could be found. among the british gulf war veterans neither the overall death rate nor the occurrence of specific causes of death, such as cancer, are significantly different from those of a reference population. no association between the health problems of many gulf war veterans, that is gulf war syndrome, and suspected depleted uranium exposure could be found. in the case of german kfor soldiers in kosovo potentially exposed to depleted uranium, it could be demonstrated that no significant intake had occurred. preliminary results of a medical expertise show that the incidence of leukaemia among the italian kfor troops is not significantly higher than the incidence in a reference population. thus, it can be concluded that, so far, there is no scientific evidence of health damage among army personnel or civilian populations as a consequence of the use of du ammunition in the gulf war or the war in the balkans. controversial information and reports about the dramatic health effects of du among soldiers of the iraqi and yugoslav armies, and among the civilian population in the area concerned, do not withstand a peer review. the commission came to exactly the same view when it considered these issues and studies, as did the council. the stoa report went on to say that 'having comprehensively reviewed and cross-examined most of the specialised scientific literature, in particular the medical literature, judged reliable and trustworthy. having in mind the results provided by the medical observation over decades of workers in the uranium industry, as well as by the experiments with animals. taking into account the results of the recent investigations in iraq and in the balkans, of the effect on man and on the environment following the use of du', the use of du ammunition in iraq and the balkans 'neither has led to a serious widespread contamination of the environment nor represents an acute or appreciable long-term hazard for man's health'. it then it goes on to give a number of recommendations, none of which coincide with the views that have been expressed by the largely green members of parliament who have spoken here this evening. i should say that having regard to all of these scientific studies, the seriousness and comprehensiveness of the work that has been undertaken –including by representatives of this house, the council and the commission – it seems to me that those who have adopted the approach we have taken must – i say this in response to mrs ahern – have a clear conscience. the same, i suspect, cannot be said of those who make allegations that are unfounded against people who are doing their best to provide proper answers to these questions.
- the joint discussion is over. i would like to inform the house that i have received six motions for resolutions on this subject, pursuant to rule 42 (5) of the rules of procedure. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)
in writing. forests are of immeasurable value: environmental, economic, national and health capital for the whole world, for the whole of europe, for each country individually. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore consider that the 'emphasis on forests' proposed by the commission is a step in the right direction. i should point out, however, that this proposal excludes measures to prevent fires which were provided for in regulation 2158/92, but not included in regulation 1257/99. this creates an oxymorous situation: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat forest fires in the community. if i can't prevent fires, what's the point of monitoring the forests? i therefore propose that attention be paid to continuing and increasing the financing of preventive measures. cooperation between partner countries is needed to prevent and combat fires more effectively, which do not know borders but often cross them. in order to be able to implement an ambitious programme, the amount of € 52 000 000 for the period 2003-2006 should be increased to € 67 000 000, with a corresponding increase after enlargement.
commission. – madam president, this proposal for a council recommendation is based on article 152 of the treaty, which stipulates that community action complementing national measures is to cover the fight against the major health scourges. the treaty cites drugs and drugs-related harm in the following way: 'the community shall complement the member states' action in reducing drugs-related health damage, including information and prevention.' may i also remind you that one of its main initiatives in the fight against drugs - the eu drug strategy 2000-2004 - includes amongst its three main public health targets one to reduce substantially drugs-related health damage and the number of drugs-related deaths. the reported number of deaths related to drug overdose in the european union is approximately 7 000 per year. deaths indirectly related to drug use, such as aids, traffic accidents, violence or suicide, bring this figure to approximately 20 000 a year. preventing the use of illegal drugs is a top priority. this can be achieved by reducing both the supply and the demand for drugs. this proposed recommendation particularly covers the demand side and takes over where law enforcement fails to stop the supply of drugs. clearly, we should try to persuade people not to use illegal drugs in the first place. however, when an individual cannot be stopped from taking drugs, it is of vital importance that every effort is made to decrease the damage to the person involved, as well the indirect damage the user can cause to others. the addicted individual needs to be actively involved in these efforts. this is called risk reduction – or sometimes harm reduction or harm minimisation. this is what the main part of the recommendation is about. the risk reduction methods that feature in the recommendation are well established. they have been used in most or all of the member states, but to varying degrees. opiates, such as heroin, are the root cause of most drugs-related deaths. one of the oldest of the risk reduction methods is controlled use of methadone tablets as a substitute for injected heroin. methadone first appeared in the eu in the late 1960s in response to emerging opiate use. the emergence of hiv in the 1980s led to the introduction of needle- and syringe-exchange programmes. in recent years, the number of acute drugs-related deaths at eu level as a whole has stabilised, in spite of increasing drug use. many factors may have contributed to this development. injecting drugs has decreased in some countries and medical treatment of overdoses has improved. however, the risk reduction methods covered by this recommendation are likely to have made a large contribution to this favourable development. drug services need to be easily accessible, reaching out to the place where the drug user happens to be, not where we want him or her to be. these are termed 'outreach services'. such services should also be offered without unrealistic demands – sometimes called 'low threshold services'. the aim is to prevent further deterioration in the health and social circumstances of users and motivate them to seek treatment. the more controversial risk reduction methods are not mentioned in the present recommendation, although they are being used in some of the member states. methods such as heroin injections under supervision, injection rooms, open-drug scenes and on-the-spot anonymous testing of substances require more research and evaluation before they can be generally recommended. the recommendation emphasises evaluation as a key tool for improving drugs-related measures. the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in lisbon plays a crucial role in the development of key indicators for monitoring and comparing drug use in the member states. it also assists in providing guidelines for the evaluation of drugs-related projects and evaluates different programmes and policies. the commission has received invaluable help from the lisbon agency in preparing this recommendation, which i see as a positive step for drug users as well as public health in general.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. madam president, commissioner, unfortunately drug abuse is one of the most important social problems in the world, and this is a sign of the inadequacy of the measures and policies that have been put in place so far. the increase in drug use is also happening alongside other problems facing our societies today. the 2002 report of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction shows that the problem of drug use remains at relatively stable levels. in particular, it states that we have between 2 and 9 users per 1 000 inhabitants, aged 15 to 64, of whom between 500 000 and 1 000 000 are intravenous drug users, that is, heroin users. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. i do not conceal from you that i would prefer the conditions to be met for this proposal to have a legislative content, because only through a common european policy or even a legislative approach will our policies be effective. however, i believe that the recommendations proposed are a very important step towards protecting the public health but also the individual health of users and we are also sending the right political message that addicts are patients in need of health and social care, and not just offenders as most societies believe today. the amendments we tabled are mainly concerned with a more detailed list of the specific actions that each local community must take in order to obtain the maximum possible results in this difficult and sensitive area. the awareness of citizens towards acceptance of treatment programmes of different approaches and other user protection measures is a necessary prerequisite for the implementation of the proposed recommendations. in particular, when we talk about harm reduction measures, the main objective is still the recovery of the user. but we know that a significant number of addicts are not in treatment and that this group is the one that has the most problems. the health education of this group is the basis for limiting the spread of dangerous infectious diseases such as hepatitis, aids, tuberculosis. it also leads users to safer use of technology and ultimately to a healthier lifestyle. it is also of the utmost importance to include measures intended for high-risk environments such as prisons. according to european union reports, the proportion of prisoners using drugs in prison varies between 29% and 86% in different prisons and countries. prisoners are extremely exposed to disease through the sharing of needles and syringes, as well as through sexual contact. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's prisoners are not subject to the same treatment as other prisoners. the commission is aware that the debate on drugs has been going on for several years now and that there are many and often conflicting views. however, we have succeeded, and i thank all my colleagues, and especially the shadow rapporteurs, for their cooperation, in bringing to the house today a relatively unanimous proposal despite the initial 103 amendments. i believe that if the member states implement even part of the proposed measures, both users and their families and european citizens will feel that we really want to do something about this complex and difficult problem.
in writing. - (el) two years after the tumult caused by the many cases - sometimes fatal - of the use by the united states and nato of weapons containing depleted uranium in the gulf and yugoslavia, the situation has not improved. on the contrary, such weapons, and even more dangerous ones, are likely to be used again in the impending war against iraq, where there are already many cases of teratogenesis, childhood leukemia and other forms of cancer. in greece, too, soldiers who have been infected suffer from various types of cancer and are treated in secret. such weapons exist and are scattered throughout greece, in various places. after lying about the possession of such weapons, the government then tried to downplay the seriousness of the problem. the statement of the panhellenic medical society against the nuclear threat is correct: "we are facing a nuclear mini-war, which has already caused irreparable damage to the environment in the balkan region". the famous international community, despite its indiscriminate interference and the creation of anti-terrorist laws and rapid reaction forces, has done nothing to ban weapons containing depleted uranium. the european parliament resolution, despite its positive points, does not clearly advocate a total ban, but merely calls for a moratorium on the use of such weapons and refers the matter to further studies.
mr president, on behalf of the communist party of greece, i welcome the great victory of the venezuelan people against the subversives of democracy and the constitution, both local and foreign. one year after the failure of the us-led coup, which was carried out with the tacit approval of the european union and the open support of spain, which was then holding the presidency, the enemies of progress, democracy and social justice tried again to overthrow president chávez and the constitutional order with the strike of the employers. all they've done is deliver a major blow to the country's economy before they retreat into a disorderly retreat. the time when imperialists imposed dictatorships everywhere is over. the people of venezuela, colombia, ecuador, bolivia, brazil, argentina, uruguay, all of latin america, are intensifying their struggle for democracy and social change. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force.
commission. – the commission remains deeply concerned about the current crisis in venezuela and has emphasised the need for a democratic and peaceful solution through dialogue and with due respect for the constitution of venezuela, human rights and democratic values. the eu fully supports the oas, together with the undp and the carter centre in the tripartite working group, in their efforts to facilitate a national dialogue between the government and the opposition. the commission has welcomed the creation of the group of friends of venezuela (brazil, chile, mexico, portugal, spain and the us) and hopes that it will contribute to the oas efforts to find a solution to the current crisis. the commission considers that former us president carter's proposal – suggesting, alternatively, a constitutional amendment that would lead to early elections or revocatory referendum on president chávez's rule on 19 august – is a good basis for the negotiations between both parties. the commission has approved a project to assist the oas in its efforts to implement possible agreements reached between the parties of the oas mediated dialogue. in addition to facilitating the ongoing dialogue, it has three main components: support for free and fair elections; investigation of the events of april 2002; and disarming the civilian population. the three components are included in the agenda of the 'negotiating table'. in addition, the commission hopes that the freedom of expression of the media, used in a responsible way, could help overcome the current climate of verbal confrontation in venezuela.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place shortly after the debate.
- the next item is the joint debate on six motions for resolutions on human rights in zimbabwe: - b5-0112/2003 by mr van orden, mr corrie, mr deva, mr foster, mr parish, mr tannock, mr banotti, mr gahler, mr korhola, mr lehne, mr maij-weggen, mr posselt and mr sacrédeus, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation in zimbabwe; - b5-0138/2003 by mr sylla, mr cossutta and mr miranda, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on zimbabwe; - b5-0142/2003 by mr kinnock, on behalf of the pse group, on the human rights situation in zimbabwe; - b5-0145/2003 by mr maes, mr rod, mr lucas, mr lannoye, mr schörling and mr isler béguin, on behalf of the green group, on the situation of human rights in zimbabwe; - b5-0148/2003 by mr van den bos, on behalf of the eldr group, on the human rights situation in zimbabwe. - b5-0151/2003 by mr belder, on behalf of the edd group, on the situation in zimbabwe.
commission. – the commission closely follows the human rights situation in zimbabwe. it is aware that the conditions remain volatile and is deeply concerned regarding the increased incidence of politically motivated violence observed recently. in view of the gravity of the situation, the commission proposed to the council the extension of the measures against zimbabwe under article 96 of the cotonou agreement, which were adopted in february last year. these measures redirect funds to social sectors and to areas which benefit directly the population. this is for a renewable period of one year. the commission agrees with the presidency's proposal for a new common position amending and extending sanctions, such as the visa ban and freeze of assets against zimbabwe, for the same additional period of one year. the commission is informed that approximately eur 770 000 have been frozen in accounts in member states or their dependent territories in accordance with the council's position. community assistance continues to contribute to projects which directly support the population in the field of democratisation, respect for human rights and the rule of law; the european initiative for democracy and human rights includes zimbabwe as a focal country. the commission is particularly concerned about the food crisis in zimbabwe and has been very actively involved in responding to the situation. between april and december 2002, we committed about eur 80 million in emergency aid and humanitarian aid. the commission believes that all avenues for dialogue should be explored to improve the situation in zimbabwe. we will support any peer pressure that the international community, and the heads of state in africa in particular, may put on the zimbabwean government in the area of respect for the essential elements of the cotonou agreement: human rights, democracy and the rule of law. (applause)
- the joint discussion is over. we now proceed to the votes.
- we shall now vote on the question of the crisis in the steel industry results of votes on the motions for resolutions on human rights, democracy and the rule of law: see minutes. motion for a resolution (b5-0132/2003) by mr plooij-van gorsel and mr clegg, on behalf of the eldr group, on the crisis in the steel industry and the measures to be taken at community level. (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) joint motion for a resolution (b5-0133/2003) on behalf of four political groups, on the crisis in the steel industry and measures to be taken at community level joint motion for a resolution tabled by mr hansenne and mr grosch, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation in the democratic republic of congo; the following persons were called upon to represent the pse group: mr dehousse, mr de keyser, mr zrihen, mr zaari, mr van lancker, mr van brempt and mr hughes. mr flautre, mr jonckheer and mr lipietz, on behalf of the green group; ainardi, modrow, caudron and figueiredo, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, and replacing motions for resolutions b5-0133, b5-0139 and b5-0140/2003 with a new text. (parliament adopted the resolution) the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment.
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned - composition of committees and delegations - submissions from committees - authorisation to draw up reports and recommendations - statements entered in the register (rule 51) - forwarding of texts adopted during the sitting - schedule of next sittings - see minutes.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the following: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. firstly, we were pleased to see that some progress has been made in recent months in turkey's alignment with the copenhagen criteria. i would like to point out, however, that for some ten years now former member of parliament leyla zana has been in prison. when mr erdogan's civil liberties and civil rights were violated when he was mayor of istanbul, here in this hall, we defended his human rights and civil liberties. we therefore expect this new government to show sensitivity to respect for human rights and, in any case, mr president, i think it is unacceptable that a sakharov prize laureate has been in turkish prisons for ten years now. that is why i am calling for your immediate political intervention to the government of turkey for the release of leyla zana, for her immediate and unconditional release!
mr president, about two weeks ago the uk authorities arrested a greek student because, according to press reports, he was gathering material for his doctoral thesis on terrorism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. this is unacceptable behaviour and should not be repeated in any case! we are not in an age of authoritarian regimes! we are in a framework of cooperation, and countries must notify other countries if they arrest their own citizens for any reason.
commissioners, i think that the main point of concern, rather than declarations of principles, could and should be that you have stressed from the outset that we need a dynamic line not only of protection but also of developing an offensive plan, because stagnation and defence often mean nothing but the disappearance of diversity. let us make an assumption: we have a negative balance of international trade in cultural and audiovisual products coming across the atlantic to us, while we do not have the same dynamic in the opposite direction. there is also another problem much closer to home: our products rarely travel from one corner of europe to the other. i think that the world trade organisation is also a good opportunity to look at the problem of the internal market, which, apart from its economic dimensions, is very important for european citizens and for its links with the culture of europe itself. music, film, audio-visual media are not moving as much as they should from one corner of europe to the other.
the commission is aware of the fact that the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the subject of the directive on the transport of dangerous goods. we often lament that europe could also use maritime transport as an alternative to road transport, to land transport in general. however, we now find that sometimes the very people who say we have to promote shipping more put up obstacles in order to achieve a more competitive and more adapted shipping system. we clearly need to improve the efficiency of port services, and that is what this initiative is about. we need to improve the efficiency of these services, to put an end to monopoly situations which sometimes mean that the same services cost three or four times more in one port than in another in the european union, which indicates that something is wrong, and - i repeat - all this by ensuring, excluding or setting limits and guarantees so that the aspects relating to maritime safety are kept at the highest level. we in the commission believe that the council's common position takes account to a large extent of the amendments adopted by parliament at first reading and that it is a balanced solution to achieve these objectives and i think it would be a real mistake not to maintain this balance, to change the broad lines of balance that have been established in the council. in this connection, ladies and gentlemen, i shall explain the commission's position on the proposed amendments. some of them clearly improve the council's common position and therefore the commission accepts them in whole, in principle or in part. that is to say, once again, the commission is making an effort to make the codecision system work as well as possible. i would first like to refer to the amendments which make the provisions of the commission directive on transparency relevant to ports to which the directive applies. this is the objective which we all shared from the beginning and i regret that the rapporteur, mr jarzembowski, considers that what has been said there is insufficient. i shall, however, refer in particular to some of the amendments dealing with these aspects. secondly, we can accept amendment no 11 - which refers to a lower frequency of revision of the list of ports of a very seasonal nature - and amendments nos 5 and 27 - which provide examples of expensive movable property which could therefore be equated with immovable property when considering depreciation or residual costs. we can also support all those amendments which, without going into detail, we believe constitute appropriate contributions to the common position or which provide additional clarification, in one way or another, to the final text. i would like to congratulate mr jarzembowski and the committee on transport in general once again on the work they have done. however, some amendments seem to seek to slow down, even paralyse, the efforts to promote this dynamism of european ports, to improve, as i said before, the potential of long-distance maritime transport, facilitating our exports in the world, but also short-distance, thus providing an alternative to land transport. it is therefore clear that we cannot support amendments nos 36 and 66 which call for the council's common position to be rejected. that said, i would like to make a few brief references to other matters which mr jarzembowski has spoken about. firstly, the question of competition between ports. i know that this is a matter of great concern to the rapporteur and other members, and i also understand that we must make progress on this. that is why i have proposed accepting the amendments which propose the inclusion of ports in the commission's directive on transparency. the commission understands the concern. in fact, our recent document on this subject is proof of our willingness to solve the problem while respecting the provisions of the treaty, mr jarzembowski, that is to say, state aid has a framework - which is what we have raised - but it cannot simply be regulated, it is the treaty itself which imposes the regulatory framework. we must clarify this to avoid, as i said, any doubts or legal uncertainties. and that is why, mr jarzembowski, i say that amendment no 15 goes beyond such provisions and we cannot accept it. we are, however, prepared to try to find a solution acceptable to all with the honourable members. in this sense, amendment no 10, duly amended, with some important adjustments in line with the solution we can find, could give us a basis for finding that compromise formula. i would ask that we work as hard as we can to find her as soon as possible. as regards amendment no 16, i would remind you that the commission itself, in the context of the so-called 'package of port measures', has already carried out a study such as the one you are asking for and the cooperation from ports was unfortunately limited. secondly, mr jarzembowski has spoken of the practice of self-help. in every modern port this practice should be allowed where possible, both for on-board and shore-based operations. the common position reflects this desire to send a message of progress and not of backwardness and rigidity. a message of progress, of progress, but with all the guarantees. in this connection, it is clearly stated that such actions must comply with the social, environmental and safety standards required in each port and that this requirement is essential in order to be able to carry out such self-help. the amendments which seriously restrict this approach - because they restrict self-help operations in various ways - by limiting them exclusively to seafarers, cannot be accepted. the commission's proposal is that the european union should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union, and that the european union should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. because the additional limitation on vessels flying the union flag would put the community at odds with its partners in the world and that too must be avoided. finally, we have always considered that the practice is a commercial service. access to such a service should therefore be regulated by the treaty and by this directive. for this reason, we support the consensus reached in the common position that authorizations should be subject to particularly strict criteria relating to public service obligations and maritime safety - and again we return to the reality of each port. but this approach can be adapted by means of port-specific solutions, which allow self-help in the field of practice in the form of exemption certificates under certain conditions. in conclusion, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's vote will have a major impact on the legislative process. the commission has always been ready to find constructive solutions with the european parliament. i would remind you once again that our overall objective is to ensure that the booming port services industry is ready to meet the challenges ahead. moreover, the future european transport system will only be successful with efficient and far-sighted ports. so once again i would ask for your support for this commission proposal and congratulate the rapporteur, mr jarzembowski, and the whole team who have worked on this text, and the honourable members for their attention.
mr president, commissioner, we are today at a stage in a long and difficult process on the liberalization of port services at second reading, and i think we should all first of all thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr jarzembowski, for the work he has done. i would like to say, mr president, that there is no doubt that i will be followed by a number of colleagues who will oppose the liberalization or at least make comments which seek to restrict the liberalization of port services substantially. i would like to say to all these colleagues, whose views i certainly respect, that i cannot understand how it is possible to be in favour of railway liberalization, in favour of air transport liberalization, in favour of telecommunications liberalization, but to be against the liberalization of port services. we can't have two meters and two scales. it's incomprehensible to me, at least. secondly, i would like to say to all those who are protesting today, the workers in the ports, that in my personal opinion, the liberalization of port services will benefit them in the medium to long term, because it will create new jobs. we have nothing against these people. on the contrary, we recognize that their work contributes to the development of the economy, but they must not themselves stand in the way of further liberalization and thus of the strengthening of the european economy. the european parliament, or at least the majority of the committee, has so far been guided by certain firm principles, and a firm principle has been our commitment to the liberalization of services, which we do not see as an end in itself but as a means of economic development. and of course, because we are relying on this principle, madam commissioner, we also adopt the amendment put forward by the rapporteur on the avoidance of discriminatory treatment by state authorities in ports, so that there is also competition between ports in the european union, and of course, mr president, we have taken seriously the comments of those involved and interested. that is why we have insisted on our position on navigation. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the safety of workers in the community, and that it has been very careful in its approach to the problem of safety of workers in the community. i think that the demands of the workers in the ports at this time, as regards self-service, are therefore rather excessive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, the impending war in iraq in the interests of american imperialism and its allies, apart from its inhumanity, will have particularly negative consequences for the european union's economy: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources available to the member states are used to finance the necessary measures. the accession of new countries whose gdp is below the community average and whose needs are greater will also create serious problems. the general guidelines of the european union budget for 2004 are to cut spending on the structural funds and the cap in order to finance the repressive offensive common european defence and security policy under the pretext of fighting terrorism, tackling migration, crisis management and conflict prevention. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the above shows that the budget is still moving in an anti-people direction and that the sacrifices imposed on workers to serve only monopoly interests continue in the lisbon logic with intensified exploitation, circumvention of workers' labour and insurance rights, inflation of unemployment, destruction of the environment and further commercialization of health, education and social welfare. once again the working people, the poor and the small and medium-sized classes of the city and the countryside are called upon to pay the price of the crisis, in order to make a profit for big capital. the committee on budgets has also adopted a resolution on the budgetary procedure for the european union, which is based on the principle of subsidiarity. instead of helping to maintain peace, it is financing the further militarization and aggression of the european union and its anti-democratic and anti-people character.
in writing. (el) in the name of creating a common framework and providing better port services, the private sector has been made to pay for taking over tasks that until now have been part of the public service. the existing ports will be given the opportunity to offer more services in any sector they consider profitable. the public administration and the provider of the essential service, in turn, take care of the necessary though unprofitable actions. under the new system, the terms and conditions and the authorisations are decided by a decision-making centre which is not the same as the previous provider of port services, since the same body cannot be both the service provider and the port authority. companies providing port services shall comply with transparency requirements in their dealings with public authorities. the private sector does not appear to be subject to a similar requirement. the directive makes special reference to workers. article 6 (5) of the directive provides that a service provider is entitled to recruit staff of his choice, but it does not provide for qualifications or training. we want port services that are transparent and provide a level playing field for all, that protect workers' rights, the environment and port safety.
mr president, commissioner, we are discussing today the future of the european employment strategy at a time when the threat of war in iraq, the increase in oil prices and the budgetary problems facing the eurozone countries are all negatively charged. unfortunately, there is no potential in the labour market today to create many jobs. as for women, who you have mentioned at length, despite their increased participation in the labour market, at around 41%-42% of the total labour force and the gradual introduction of women into purely male-dominated sectors, unemployment rates are strikingly higher than those of men. the lisbon targets for improving the position of women in the labour market still seem rather distant, as unemployment among women remains about twice as high, at 14.6% compared to 8.7% for men. we also see that exploitation has a female face, with over 250 000 women working at home with no social protection whatsoever, while the black labour market of hundreds of thousands of foreigners, mainly women, is flourishing, without their numbers being counted in the labour force or the unemployed. the european employment strategy recognises the role that women can play in raising employment rates and we are pleased that it is moving towards closing the gender pay gap and the representation of women in all sectors. we are also pleased with the emphasis you are placing, commissioner, on the implementation of gender mainstreaming in all areas. however, these low rates of women's representation indicate that more impetus and evaluation of the policies already in place is needed. above all, qualitative and quantitative measurable targets need to be set at european and national level, for example, we can set targets by 2010 to halve the current gender gap in pay, vocational training, pensions, promotions and the length of time women are in the labour market. i hope that the council next spring will accept your proposals and that we will have the new national employment plans in the autumn, as you mentioned in your speech.
mr president, i am generally in agreement with the general framework that the president of the commission has set out for relations with the other countries after enlargement. but the policies of general principles sometimes stumble in their implementation. in this sense, i would like to ask two questions: firstly, what is the most positive thing that can be achieved in practice in relations with the mediterranean countries of north africa, when the general policies are not, i think, particularly successful. secondly, with regard to the countries of former eastern europe which are about to join, because the quality of relations is sometimes determined by the neighbouring countries and not by general principles and because we have recently found that many of the candidate countries have moved autonomously in matters of political strategy, we are talking about the problem with iraq, regardless of which position one agrees or disagrees with, the question is how we can influence the behaviour of these countries so that they do not define their own criteria for relations with the next countries, which we consider countries of cooperation and peace and which some others probably consider as opponents.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. the honourable member will be aware that his very important and interesting oral question has unfortunately been overtaken by the events of the last 24 hours. i would therefore like to take this opportunity, with his agreement, to inform you of the latest developments. the commission regrets that the efforts of the secretary-general of the united nations, mr kofi annan, to find a comprehensive solution to the cyprus problem have not been successful. the commission has given its full support to this process and recalls the european union's readiness to facilitate a solution in accordance with the principles on which the european union is founded. without prejudice to the european union's preference for a political solution, the commission confirms that the accession process will continue as planned in accordance with the existing timetable. all the preparatory legal steps to make this possible have already been taken. in other words: we will now send parliament a protocol which will supplement the treaty of accession with cyprus and which will set out how the accession of cyprus will be organised in the present circumstances. the commission notes with approval the statement by the un secretary-general that the peace plan remains on the table. the commission is also ready to support any further efforts in this connection. the commission encourages all parties concerned, in particular turkey, to work towards a solution. the commission underlines its solidarity with all cypriots and commends the courage with which the turkish cypriots have expressed their european convictions. the commission will continue to support projects in cyprus which benefit both communities, in order to reduce economic imbalances on the island and to build confidence between the two communities.
i would like to begin by thanking and expressing my appreciation for all the work that the commissioner has done on the issue of the integration of the whole of cyprus into the european union, and to say that the statement he made on this occasion is important, and to ask the following question: given that negotiations with turkey are due to start towards the end of 2004, is the issue of the settlement of the cyprus problem one of the conditions for which a turkey seeking membership must make a positive and constructive contribution? does the commission also think that, in the end, with the closure of this phase in the annan plan, the european union and the commission will perhaps take on a more substantial role in the negotiations between the two communities?
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i had explicitly warned turkey, when i visited ankara at the end of january this year, of the possible consequences of a failure of the cyprus talks. in my talks with the prime minister and the chairman of the ak party, as well as with other turkish political leaders, i made it clear that the commission is expected to deliver an opinion and a recommendation by the end of 2004 on whether or not turkey fulfils the political conditions for accession and, if so, a recommendation on when accession negotiations with turkey should begin. i must say very clearly that the cyprus question is also one of these political conditions for accession. we have also made this very clear in the accession partnership with turkey. let me say this today, in all caution: if at the end of 2004 - when the commission has to present its report and recommendation - the situation in cyprus is unchanged, that is to say, exactly as it is today, then we would have the situation where a country, namely turkey, which wants to negotiate accession with us, does not recognise a member country, namely cyprus. i find it very difficult to imagine how the commission could, in such a situation, come to a positive opinion on the opening of accession negotiations with turkey. i ask for your understanding that i cannot be more clear and i do not want to be more clear, but i think the indication is clear enough. if you link what i have just said with what i have said about the protocol, then that means that, of course, there is still a chance of finding a solution between now and the end of 2004. that is why both the united nations and the european union say that the cyprus issue is not over with yesterday's failure, but as soon as political conditions allow that of course the talks on the plan can be resumed. it is very important that the un plan remains on the table. let me say one more thing: the united nations plan in its most recent and final form was an extremely cheap offer, especially for the turkish cypriots. i say this with full conviction: there will never be a better offer, a better solution for the turkish cypriots than this. it is therefore of the utmost importance for the turkish cypriots that the united nations say: the plan remains on the table. this is something that can only be very much welcomed.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the process of cyprus' accession to the european union not only did not lead to a solution of the cyprus problem but ended up in de jure partition and recognition of the turkish occupation with the accession of the free part of cyprus. the situation would not have been much better if the annan plan had been accepted, which, contrary to the decisions of the united nations, attempted to impose a peculiar confederation regime not far removed from the recognition of two states in cyprus, namely partition. in these circumstances, commissioner, i wonder how the commission will deal with the fact that a candidate country, in this case turkey, is occupying and has colonized a part of a country which will already be a member of the european union, in contravention of many united nations resolutions, and this is not just a solution to the cyprus problem, it is a response to the occupation. will the european union take responsibility for the liberation of the occupied part of cyprus?
- thank you, mr sturdy. we take note of your observation and will examine it.
- thank you for your observation, mrs. mckenna. we are of course taking note of your request.
- thank you very much, mr martinez. we take note of your observation and will act accordingly.
mr president, i would like to refer to the greek student, mr douchemetzis, who has been arrested in the united kingdom. the trial court ordered his detention. the only evidence that exists is some paperwork he had on his website and his doctoral papers, about terrorist organizations. the greek government was not informed at all, and his family was not informed, and i think it is important that the bureau of the european parliament should express its concern.
- thank you, mr alavanos. the bureau takes note of your observation and will act accordingly.
- the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on iraq. (parliament adopted the resolution) i would ask my colleagues to put down the signs and to take their seats so that we can hear the council's statement. ladies and gentlemen, you know the rules! i would like to ask you to please return to your seats and put the signs away! (parliament agreed to the request) the president-in-office of the council, mr papandreou, greek minister for foreign affairs, has the floor.
mr president, i do not think there is anyone who would disagree with the findings made by the president of the council, the greek foreign minister, mr papandreou, and commissioner patten. i would just like to add that in this case the mass presence of the great majority of public opinion and the demonstrations of european citizens and others are an additional political element to be taken into account. on 11 september 2001, all the peoples and governments of europe unanimously supported the united states of america in the terrorist attack it suffered. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. there are side effects of the non-unity of the 15 in dealing with the crisis, but also in the candidate countries, which differ somewhat from the possibility of a unified approach. we must be careful, while europe is building its future through the assembly, which is setting the new conditions through the constitution that is being formed, not to cause internal ruptures that cannot then be repaired and to link the 25, the 28 and as many as possible in a new strategy, which will be about a europe of peace, cooperation, a europe that will seek democratic developments worldwide, the so-called policy of crisis prevention and management, and not to look after the crisis at how to deal with the problems of refugees, deaths and so on. but i want to remind you, and this is what all the analyses say, that in america two strategies are in conflict: one strategy which concerns america's coexistence with the rest of the world and another strategy which has a theocratic logic, according to which america must determine the course of developments based on a subjective way of assessing what is in the international interest. i would remind many who have developed theories that the un has somehow lost its way, that it expressed the balance after the end of the second world war and that the new balances must be expressed in the new relations, that we must understand that in international conditions the new balances are something that must be expressed in a logical way and with procedures such as not to cause ruptures. but it is good to remember certain things that concern us as the european union. we had consolidated our position on the palestinian question. and yet, this unified position of all of us was not heard. we had consolidated our position on iraq, on the embargo against the iraqi people. and that united position was not heard. in this sense, we must see that we should be obsessed with those periods when our policies can give practical effect, which will then not fuel new crises. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. but i believe that each crisis creates the conditions for a new quality. we must tell our american friends that this notion leads to adventure. and those adventures won't be in america's best interest either. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. the european parliament must send a message of peaceful settlement of all international problems, of peaceful resolution through processes of democratic conditions throughout the world.
mr president, it has become clear to everyone that the disarmament, which is proceeding, the overthrow of saddam, is only the pretext. there is no doubt that the real motive is the pursuit of the us and its allies to control the oil and geostrategic position of iraq. it is also true that war, even if it is decided by the un, will have terrible consequences not only for the iraqi people but also for the region, europe and the world as a whole. the question is therefore whether the greek presidency, the european union, in response to the growing opposition of our peoples and the american one, will prevent this absurd crime. will they use the four votes in the security council to achieve this? will the greek government and others stop helping to prepare for war by all the facilities they are giving to the invaders? mr president, at this crucial moment when the soviet union's absence is becoming terribly apparent, i make a final appeal to you and to all my colleagues to prevent this war from becoming a precedent for new wars. let's block the path of doom! at the same time, let us express our solidarity with the iraqi people in their struggle to overthrow the tyrannical regime!
mr president, it has happened to the government of my country to drink from this bitter cup. it is difficult, but we have the means, we have the traditions - the traditions of the previous greek presidencies, the governments of the late mr papandreou, who were firmly in favour of peace, in favour of european autonomy. we can, mr president, keep our alliances with the united states, but, to use a historical precedent, america's friends were not those who told them to drop napalm in vietnam, but those who told them to stop this war. we can fight for the unity of the european union - which has reached the point of humiliation, with uk representatives going to cameroon, angola and guinea to draw them into war - by upholding the principles of the european union's peace treaties, the un charter and by listening to blair and aznar. we can make a great alliance with the peoples of europe. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's a difficult situation, we're a small country, but belgium is small too. you have good intentions, but we need more results.
commissioner patten, thank you and congratulations for your speech! mr president-in-office of the council, only 18 months have passed since the tragic events of 11 september, and president bush and his staff have achieved what would have seemed impossible even for the often clumsy american diplomacy, namely to reverse an almost unanimous and unconditional global sympathy for the united states and its efforts to combat terrorism and to replace it with an equally catholic and unanimous coalition, but this time against the american government and its war and strategic plans. and this is not because of disagreements about the harsh and dictatorial nature of the iraqi regime or even the dangers of saddam hussein's possession of weapons of mass destruction, which was confirmed by consensus in the context of resolution 1441, which must undoubtedly be fully implemented, but because an overwhelming majority of peoples and governments worldwide have realized that the current crisis goes far beyond iraq and its leadership and that it is essentially about the future organization of the world, a world that is called upon to choose between the arbitrary monopoly of one side and the collective legal division of international problems of the other. in other words, it is being asked to choose between the principles and rules of the un charter and the components of the new washington strategic doctrine, which promotes the worldview of pre-emptive strike, unilateral violent intervention, the debasement of the un and the encouragement of contingent alliances, allegedly voluntary, to be determined by their respective military operations, instead of determining them on the basis of substantive and procedural provisions in accordance with international law. it is precisely in this perspective that the european union and the european parliament, as the elected representative of its peoples, which joined the american people in a common struggle to secure the system of law which the present american government is unfortunately so violently inclined to violate, must oppose.
in writing. - (el) the division of the market between the monopolies and the powerful of this world, in the framework of the wto, is not limited to industrial and agricultural products, but also extends to services. we are witnessing, in a climate of opacity, an intensification of discussions on the conditions for the penetration of foreign capital in the fields of transport, telecommunications, energy, banking, water distribution, health, education and culture, according to the principle "everything is bought and everything is sold", with the least developed countries in mind, as the multinationals are ready to bleed even more. the essential precondition is the privatisation and liberalisation of all areas still in the hands of the public sector. the greek communist party is opposed to this process. we condemn the greed of monopolies, the plundering of national wealth, the ruthless exploitation of workers, the appalling working conditions, the attack on social benefits. we also condemn the hypocrisy of all those who claim that trade liberalization, the opening up of markets, the removal of all obstacles to the immunity of big capital will lead to development. we are defending, both for greece and for all the countries of the world, public ownership and management of the basic sectors of the economy, we are fighting for a high-quality public health and education system, for the unhindered development of culture, based on respect for the peculiarities of each people.
in writing. - (el) unfortunately, the employment figures in the eu have been particularly negative in recent times. in greece in particular, as in germany, the trend is downwards. it is essential that effective measures be taken without delay to strengthen the employment sector. firstly, if the war in iraq is avoided, this will create an encouraging framework for investment both globally and within the eu, which will also have an impact on employment. secondly, greater flexibility in the stability pact will encourage public interventions in favour of development and employment. thirdly, we must set employment indices, as we have done with economic indices, to monitor and strengthen the member states' policy in the fight against unemployment. fourthly, measures must be taken to coordinate the taxation of smes and to combat social exclusion and illegal work, measures which are not sufficient on their own, especially when one considers the restrictive way in which they are mentioned in the motion for a resolution, which i voted against.
in writing. - (el) there is an attempt to solve the problem of unemployment by intensifying liberal monetary policies and continuing with financial austerity, while forgetting that these same policies are responsible for the current crisis and the high unemployment rate. under the misleading title adopted in lisbon 'for sustainable development and full employment', and despite the increase in inequalities, member states are called upon to implement structural reforms leading to the distribution of unemployment, the generalization of flexible forms of work, uncertainty, insecurity for employees and the reduction of the cost of wages in order to ensure that large companies have a steady increase in their earnings. the widespread longterm unemployment, which has been affecting workers for several decades and now exceeds 10%, is now accompanied by a widespread use of temporary and provisional forms of work. under the guise of demographic change and the viability of funds, the extension of working time is proposed according to the logic of "active ageing" and the upheaval of the insurance and pension system. increasing investment will not solve the problem, since most of it is in technological equipment, which reduces jobs instead of increasing them. we oppose eu policies, based on the stability pact and the lisbon process, because they do not meet the needs of workers, farmers and small and medium-sized enterprises; because they aim to reduce workers' rights and they obey the laws of big business.
in writing. - (el) the report under debate adopts the anti-people policies of the eu, which are abolishing the acquired rights of employees in favour of the interests of the big monopolies. it fully supports the implementation of the stability pact, the acceleration of structural changes in the labour market, wage cuts, the extension of the retirement age, the full liberalisation of services of public interest, particularly in the fields of postal services, telecommunications, energy, transport and broadcasting, and calls for a reduction in the tax burden on entrepreneurs. it openly argues that the lack of flexibility in the labour market and the partial application of flexible forms of work are one of the main causes of unemployment. in the name of financial balance, which serves as a pretext for the steady reduction of social spending and the privatization of services of public interest, large companies are strengthened and the dismantling of insurance and pension systems is demanded. at a time when the clouds of war are gathering, when imperialist infighting is intensifying and when there is no end in sight to the crisis (the commission forecasts a minimum growth rate for 2003, of -0.1 to 0.5 per cent), the priority is to strengthen competition and the profits of the large european monopolies. we stand against such anti-people policies to stand with the workers, who are fighting to overthrow these policies.
- the minutes of yesterday's session have been distributed. are there any observations ?
- thank you very much, mr. posselt, for your observation. we have taken note of this so that we can act appropriately. (the minutes were approved)
- the agenda calls for statements by the council and the commission on the union's military mission in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the president-in-office of the council, mr papandreou, greek minister for foreign affairs, has the floor.
council i thank my colleagues for their comments and observations. i would like to begin by saying that, as regards the procedure we are following, the council fully respects the obligations arising from the treaty as regards informing and involving parliament in cfsp matters. we believe in the vital role of the european parliament and in the principles of transparency and information. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and that, of course, was before we took office. i would like to refer to mr brok and of course to withhold his remarks, and assure him that we will examine every possibility within the framework of the provisions of the treaty for more effective and more useful information to parliament and of course through parliament and responsible information to the citizens of our union. i would like to agree with mr wiersma that the political-military operation we are undertaking is a major test for the european union and that is of course why we are taking all the measures we can to ensure that it is not only credible but also successful. as regards mrs ludford, i would like to agree with her on a lot of what she said, namely that the problems in the balkans are not over, but, as mr patten said, we have really succeeded in having the european union formulate a strong single policy for the region. there are no differences between us as regards the strategy, but i would also say the implementation of this strategy between the member states or the other key institutions of the european union. i think that this shows the maturity of our common foreign policy, at least for this region, but i think it is also an important event for the further course of our common foreign policy. i would also like to stress that the problems in the balkans are complex. the issue of organized crime, as mrs ludford emphasized, cooperation with the icty, the rule of law, corruption, regional cooperation, the necessary networks, transport, energy, information technology, all these are key elements for the stabilization and development of the region, as well as the completion of the common path of the region with the european union. in this direction, not only the commission but also the presidency is organising a summit in thessaloniki, with the aim of exploiting, continuing the process of integrating these countries into the european family and giving a new impetus, if you want a new contract between us, where we ask them to take a firm course and adhere to the european conditions and to put this course into practice, with concrete steps, with concrete reforms, with concrete changes and tackling problems such as the one mentioned by mrs ludford, organised crime, but also others, and from our side, to be able to confirm the perspective we have given them at several summits, that they too will become members of the european union at some point. i also want to speak as the greek foreign minister. as regards the name, i would like to stress that none of us is happy with the name 'former yugoslav republic of macedonia'. but i want to say that this name is a product of compromise and negotiation within the un and that the un has adopted this as the official name of the country and all the international organizations have adopted this as a temporary name. the name of course must be finalized as soon as there is a negotiation at the un, i fully agree, and i can stress that we are always willing to continue and intensify negotiations with the other side, to satisfy the sensitivities of both sides and to find a solution that will satisfy, as i said, both sides. i would also like to reply to mr gollnisch, who said something that is not accurate, that the name does not imply a territorial claim. unfortunately, the whole problem is that the name has historically been used for territorial claim. unfortunately, the idea of a "greater macedonia" was until recently, and so the term "macedonia" was clearly used as an idea of changing borders and integrating territories of neighboring countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in particular, bilateral relations between greece and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia have improved dramatically in recent years. we are the first investor in fyrom and have consistently supported the territorial integrity, prosperity and european path of this country in every difficult moment that has passed in the last months or in the last years. i would also like to agree with mr swoboda that mr tzijjits took courageous decisions both on the icty and on democratic changes, and recently on kosovo, namely to start discussions not on the final status of kosovo, but on important practical arrangements between belgrade and pristina, between mr tzijjits and the kosovo leadership. i think that with his death we should make our own commitment to continue to support the forces of reform, the forces of democracy in yugoslavia, in serbia and montenegro and to be able to help them on their european path. i would also like to stress, with regard to mr swoboda, that fortunately in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia i can say that we see an example of good cooperation between the various institutions of the european union, there is good coordination between us, and i think mr patten could confirm this, but not only between our internal institutions, but also between the european union and the united states and other organisations such as the osce and the council of europe. and this demonstrates the need for multilateral cooperation, for our close cooperation in dealing with international crises. when there's this cooperation, when there's this coordination, i think we're more efficient. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have contacts with the western european union and these are of course subjects which will also be discussed in the debate on the future of europe. i would also like to refer to two or three questions raised by mr laschet and mr von wogau and mr van orden, both in relation to our cooperation with the united states and the decision-making mechanisms of the european union and nato, and also in relation to the risk of enterprises. first of all, as regards the decision-making mechanism of the european union, the esdp mechanism, particularly as regards military operations, is now being tested for the first time. we are convinced that the procedures we have agreed on will be effective, and the fact that this first operation will be carried out with the aid of nato's resources and capabilities will help speed up the decision-making process. the fact that a member state, a framework state, france, has been chosen also contributes to this, as it ensures the unity of the administrative structure of the undertaking. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, as regards this operation, as i said in my speech, cooperation with nato will continue and there is provision for the use of nato reserves in case the situation deteriorates. the nato headquarters in skopje will continue to operate, as will the kfor rear force. in this context, and in accordance with the risk assessment so far, we consider the risk to be relatively low. finally, as regards the financing of the operation, as is well known, expenditure relating to defence aspects is not covered by the community budget and therefore the financing of the operation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia will be borne by the member states. it would certainly be useful in the future for the esdp operations to be financed from the union budget, but this would certainly require institutional reforms. i would like to thank you for your attention and to assure you that i will always be available, within the time limits, but i will make every effort to keep you informed of the procedures, decisions and developments we have in this matter.
- ladies and gentlemen, i have received, pursuant to rule 37 of the rules of procedure, a motion for a resolution (b05-0157/2003) on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the subject of the matter before us. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the agenda calls for the commission's statement on the transfer of personal data by airlines to the us immigration service.
commission. – mr president, if you agree, as indicated on the board, this commissioner – who is less knowledgeable than his colleague – could begin the debate and then my colleague commissioner bolkestein will continue, as this issue touches on both our competences. i repeat what i said at the outset of the previous debate, and offer my apologies to parliament that i will have to leave early, though my distinguished colleague will be here until the end of the debate. i explained in the last debate that i am due to fly to croatia and belgrade later this afternoon and, not least because of the tragic events today, i know that parliament will understand that. let me now turn to the business in hand. the aviation and security act, passed by the us congress on 19 november 2001, is one of a series of laws introduced in the united states after 11 september 2001, with one overriding aim: to enhance national security, in particular through transport security measures. the basic aim is to prevent terrorist acts by detecting potential perpetrators before they enter the country. in this context, the united states congress has required that carriers make passenger name record information available to us customs upon request. the commission shares the security concerns of the united states. nevertheless, the united states measures have raised concern with regard to the respect of community and member states’ laws on data protection. airlines operating flights across the atlantic risked being caught between two sets of incompatible measures and suffering severe losses as a result of penalties the united states threatened to impose, including fines and even the withdrawal of landing rights. passengers - between 10 and 11 million a year - would have also suffered from the disrupted air traffic and from the time-consuming 'secondary' checks that the united states planned to introduce at point of entry. moreover, airlines not in compliance risked being seen as higher security risks, with potential consequences for significant falls in passenger numbers. the stakes, therefore, were very high and the consequences of not acting would have been extremely serious. we had to ensure, as far as we could, that the important interests of european union citizens in preserving their right to privacy was balanced against the need to protect many thousands of jobs in our airlines and associated industries like travel agencies. i want to assure this house that, right from the outset, the european commission has done its utmost to try to engage the united states in a discussion on how to find a solution compatible with both sets of legislation and one that would ensure legal certainty for all concerned. the european commission has assumed its responsibilities and in recent weeks undertook difficult discussions to overcome a stalemate created by the united states initially taking our concerns lightly and not responding to our questions. in fact, the european commission had raised this issue with the united states on numerous occasions, with particular emphasis since the us customs service issued its interim rule of 19 june 2002, containing the concrete implementation methods. as a result of these efforts by the commission, the united states first postponed the entry into force of the new requirements until 5 february and then agreed to waive the imposition of penalties on non-complying airlines until 5 march. following a high-level meeting on 17 and 18 february on access to personal data contained in passenger name records, both sides issued a joint statement which sets out the steps that need to be taken to reach a mutually satisfactory and legally certain solution to this issue. further talks took place on 4 march, as a result of which the united states has given additional undertakings with respect to the handling and protection of sensitive data. i am also aware that questions have been raised as to the legal basis for the action undertaken so far by the commission. this, as my colleague commissioner bolkestein will explain in more detail, seems to be founded on a misunderstanding. there has been no 'agreement' and no 'decision' so far. instead, we have engaged with the united states authorities in an intensive dialogue aimed at obtaining the necessary guarantees regarding the proper handling and use of the data concerned by the us side. both sides are now committed to continuing their discussions in order to find a more legally secure solution. the possibility of such discussions is provided for in the data protection directive, as the initial and necessary steps towards the adequacy finding provided for in its article 25(6). following comitology procedures, the draft commission decision will then have to be discussed by this house before being finalised. in the interim, we have obtained from the united states a provisional set of undertakings on how they will protect the personal data they access and a specific commitment not to make use of any sensitive data for profiling purposes. before passing the debate to my distinguished colleague to provide honourable members with further details on this issue, i would like to ask this house to recognise the considerable efforts made by the commission and the positive results we have achieved so far – even if these still have to be finalised – and i hope parliament will join forces with us in obtaining from the united states the necessary data protection guarantees for european citizens so that a permanent solution to the problem can be achieved. i should like to make one final personal remark. the whole house recognises how the events of 11 september produced a real feeling of vulnerability and shock in the united states. the house will recognise the concern in the united states to put in place measures to ensure that further terrorist attacks are less, rather than more, likely in the future. like a number of honourable members, i come from a country which has also had to take steps to deal with terrorist threats. that said, i hope that we can engage the united states at a much earlier stage in the policy-making process in discussing these security issues. if we can have a dialogue earlier in the process, it will be easier to avoid the sort of political difficulties that we have had from time to time over the last year. there should be no difference between us at all on the importance of putting in place security measures which are recognised as being reasonable by both sides. it would be easier to do that if we could talk more openly and earlier about these sorts of measures.
- commissioner, i would like to take this opportunity to assure you that it was not the intention of the president of parliament to prevent you from speaking. however, we have been informed that due to some constraints due to your schedule, you will have to leave early.
mr president, this is a statement by the commission, but it is a very important matter, a matter of political importance. it concerns european union-united states relations, where legislative measures are envisaged, as commissioner patten said, and where the council's contribution is also necessary for legislative measures. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the council's delegation should be present on this matter, and if so, what position should it take?
- mr. alavanos, i have of course taken note of your comment and we will investigate to find out exactly what it is about. however, we decided from the outset that the commission would make a statement in this regard.
mr president, i want to say that 10 days ago the professor of the athens polytechnic, mr venios angelopoulos, went to the united states, to jfk airport, and disappeared. he disappears for five hours because he was being interrogated by the fbi. and just as without any reason he was immersed, so without any reason he was released. in greece there was a great deal of confusion about how, why, what happened, until we gradually found out what was being hidden from the citizens of the european union, from the member countries of the european union and perhaps from the members of parliament: that there was already an agreement between the european commission and the united states, on the basis of which the personal data of travellers going to the united states could be transferred. and not only that, but to be allowed in the united states to go into the data systems, the passenger name record, which includes seat reservation date, travel agent, ticket information, credit card number, credit card expiration date, itinerary, history of the passenger name record, who may have had previous trips, religious or national information through meal selection, etc., groups he traveled, where he stayed, means of communication with other people, medical data, and he can go into the frequent flyer programs that have dozens of other data. how can that be? what is the united states? is that international police? what is the european union? why does the european union have its own data protection legislation? and can we accept that the united states should come and impose penalties on airlines because they want to apply european union law? is this the level of humiliation we 're going to get ? the european parliament is asking the commission in its proposals - and the commissioner has said nothing - to put a stop to this situation until it is brought into line with european union legislation. i think we should apply rule 91 of the rules of procedure, since the commission is not responding, and go to the european court of justice.
mr president, there is no doubt that we are facing an unpleasant situation. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they are threatening to take action against our own airlines if we do not respect their will, which is clearly not a friendly and allied attitude. this attitude is in addition to a series of events that we have experienced in recent years, i would say in the last year even more, which often leads us to rather comic, one might say, situations. i mean, it seems that in the case of iraq, many european countries have come to be closer to powers like china or russia than to the united states, with whom i think we share the same values in principle. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east, and the european union has also expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. the commission has been criticized on this point, and i very much agree with it. i must say, of course, that in my personal opinion i do not think there was any intention on the part of the commission to support the americans. she was going to handle a certain way a bad situation that she had in front of her. in any event, i believe that the issue that has arisen must be resolved as quickly as possible in a way that is, firstly, legally correct and, secondly, legally secure for the rights of the citizens of the european union. i think that this approach, mr president, is much more preferable to what is being called for in an amendment tabled by several political groups, namely the immediate suspension of this interim agreement between the commission and the american authorities. if we automatically suspend the agreement right now, i think we are punishing ourselves more, to be honest, and the european airlines, who will not have the right to go to the united states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, mrs gröner's own-initiative report is an important work on equal opportunities in the european parliament and an important occasion for all of us to assess whether what we support and advise in the member states can be applied at home. the report refers to all our acquis, that is to say, to what we have implemented in the european parliament to date or have adopted, as in mrs lalumière's report. it also includes good practices by the european commission in promoting a balanced participation of men and women in its staff. the most important contribution of this report is that it highlights the need for political will at all levels of decision-making, in the administrative machinery, in the bureau, in the conference of presidents, in the functioning of the political parties, in order to achieve the best results in balanced participation. it is true that gender equality must be on the agenda of all institutions, because only then will the problem of women's underrepresentation and the imbalance be understood. the report makes interesting proposals relating to social infrastructure, for example childcare for members and staff, which we consider to be a necessary condition, and other proposals relating to the study of the presence of women and its effects at all levels and in all the policies implemented in the european parliament. it is an own-initiative report which does not impose a policy or commit itself to specific measures. we hope, however, that it will be a good opportunity for reflection and inspiration for action in the period in which our parliament is preparing for enlargement by welcoming representatives of the new member states. it should not only present the best possible image but also serve as an example for the new countries to follow, without forgetting that many of the present member states still need suggestions and proposals to better organise parliamentary life and the mechanisms of functioning of their parliaments so that there is a balanced representation of the two sexes.
mr president, i am particularly pleased that the presence of the commissioner has refuted the very offensive remark you made earlier about the committee of which i have the honour of being chairman. i hope that you are now convinced that the subject under discussion is important enough to justify the presence of the commissioner responsible in this debate. ladies and gentlemen, it is natural when we talk about mainstreaming gender equality in all policies and in all sectors to look after our own household first. that's what mrs. krachta said earlier. the functioning of the european institutions should be a model and an example for the member states and the world to follow. the european parliament is a valuable policy framework and a useful input for the practical implementation of gender equality, by promoting a balanced gender representation, both in the parliamentary office and in the promotion of women in positions of responsibility within the parliament, and in the progression of women's grades and salaries at all levels of the administrative hierarchy of the european parliament. unfortunately, six years after gender mainstreaming was enshrined in the amsterdam treaty, this important strategy for achieving equality has not been fully implemented either in the administration of parliament or in political work. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the important report by mrs gröner specifies and sets out all the critical issues, proposing concrete measures and methods to address the shortcomings that exist. our committee has the ambition to make the european parliament a model for the implementation of gender mainstreaming and we hope that mrs gröner's excellent report will be a stepping stone to that goal. but we need support and commitment at the highest level to achieve this objective and, at the same time, we need the provision of resources to ensure the consistent implementation of the measures proposed in the report. the principle of gender mainstreaming should be clearly enshrined in the new constitutional treaty, and this is one of the main demands of my committee in our fight to make the future of europe - and we hope the male members of the european parliament, mr president - more sensitive to gender issues. i think it is very important, however, that the greek presidency, following your proposal, has decided at the recent informal council that the european commission should submit an annual report on the implementation of gender mainstreaming in the union.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women to work experience is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission has already taken a number of measures to promote equal opportunities for women. we note that, despite the commitment of the member states to integrate the objective of horizontal integration of equal opportunities into the community support frameworks, this commitment has not been respected. the commissioner said that there were no specialised monitoring mechanisms, no adequate information, no adequate quantitative and qualitative indicators, and no adequate preparation and training of those responsible. the previous rapporteurs have referred to all these shortcomings and missed opportunities to promote equality and to create infrastructure that will have a direct and positive impact on women's lives. i would like to point out that there is no public debate in the member states on this subject, on their obligations, on the need for evaluation and the need for a change of policy. it is particularly important that we have this debate during the mid-term review and we must continue it and extend it to the member states, help to deepen this reflection in the new member states and make them understand that the structural funds, the new structural policy that will be implemented, are an important tool in dealing with their challenges. we must also work with them so that the new structural policy includes the appropriate policies to fill the current gaps, as well as consensus and awareness of the need to put into practice what is decided in the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to inform you that the european court of human rights has recently issued a judgment in connection with the trial of the kurdish leader abdullah ocalan. among other things, the court of human rights accepts that mr ocalan was not tried by an independent and impartial tribunal and that he did not have a fair trial, since he did not have the means to defend himself and the time required to do so in the most effective manner. at the same time, mr president, mr ocalan has been practically in solitary confinement for three months or more. he has not been allowed to speak to his lawyers or his relatives, and i think that the european parliament should make a protest to the turkish government - i remind you that turkey is a candidate country for membership of the european union - and ask that the basic rights of every prisoner be guaranteed.
the commission's new strategy for consumer protection is ambitious, mr president. it represents the quality of life of the consumer: protection against unjustified practices, reduction of unjustified price differences between countries, the possibility of approaching a market of 350 million people with confidence, and the guarantee of the credibility of consumer organizations themselves. we must congratulate the commission on the rich research work and, of course, the rapporteurs on their improved proposals. but the road isn't paved with flowers. the obstacles and technical difficulties are many. first of all, businessmen and a number of colleagues must be convinced that the establishment of a regulatory framework is not contrary to the logic of competition but is one of the basic conditions for effective competition. secondly, everyone must be convinced that comprehensive consumer protection is not achieved by counting only business-consumer relations but also horizontal relations between businesses, since the common objective is to make the market work more efficiently and to protect consumers more effectively. the green paper, for example, should also consider the proposal for a regulation on sales promotion alongside its own proposals. as regards the method of dealing with this, it is right to give priority to a coherent framework directive which would incorporate certain basic principles, such as the prohibition of conduct which offends morals, the principle of good faith, the principle of fair trading practices. this method reduces the need for detailed regulation and allows for a rapid response to the proliferation of unfair inventions and unlawful practices. moreover, even the legal systems of central europe, which are familiar with the detailed regulations, increasingly rely on the general clauses to adapt the law to changing situations. this method proved valuable and made it possible to modernize the law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the flexible approach to the framework directive is also compatible with the policy of promoting self-regulation, which should be given priority, but on two conditions: firstly, there should be a general time-frame within which the parties concerned are invited to agree and, secondly, there should be a common framework defining the responsibilities arising from compliance with the obligations laid down in self-regulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the community's own resources. the choice is difficult because on the one hand we want to ensure that harmonization does not lead to a reduction in the level of protection, and on the other hand maximalist proposals usually hinder the harmonization process. i think we should proceed on the basis of maximum harmonization and, where appropriate, selectively, towards minimum harmonization. in conclusion, mr president, i should like to say a few words about the special attention to be paid to consumer organizations. the question of representativeness and transparency should concern us because consumer organizations today are themselves a problem for consumer protection.
in writing. - (el) for the european union, the causes of unemployment and poverty of women are not due to capitalist exploitation. the causes are the lower level of qualifications of women, the burden of family responsibilities, reactionary views that encourage discrimination between the sexes. instead of providing stable full-time employment, part-time work is encouraged and anti-pedagogical rapid training courses are encouraged, transforming women into a flexible and cheap labour force. not only does the 3rd csf not allow women to take care of themselves, but it subsidizes employers so that they can weaken workers' rights, with most of the subsidies going to infrastructure work, which favors large companies. in the name of equality, the inclusion of the gender dimension in the various policies has reversed, within the strict anti-people economic policy, the provisions in favour of women, which worsen the situation of women. in addition, proposals are made for further reductions in the family allowance system and for private sector participation in health, education and social security projects and infrastructure. we are in favour of regulations for women's work provided they are provided free of charge. we oppose the promotion of flexible working hours in the name of reconciling work and family obligations. we are in favour of stable full-time work, the strengthening and extension of social and labour rights. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
mr president, commissioner, the issue of the stoning of women in nigeria, which has shocked world opinion, was discussed again here in the house last september. however, commissioner, a voice is crying out in the wilderness. on march 25, the case of amina lawal, a wretched woman who made the great crime believe that she had the right to dispose of her body as she wanted, is being discussed again in a sharia court of appeal. under islamic law, this is a crime of consecration. is it possible that these things are happening in the 21st century and none of the powerful on earth are moved? i'm very sorry the commissioner won't listen to me. it is not the case that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the facts. what has the political leadership of the european union, the commission and the council done? what sanctions have we imposed on nigeria, a country with which we have economic and trade agreements? what is the point of the clauses on respect for women's human rights in the cotonou convention, commissioner, when there are no sanctions? after all, does nigeria have a secular, democratic or theocratic regime? is there a government in this country or are the mullahs ruling?
mr president, i am almost at the end of my speech, the commissioner has not heard anything i have said and of course he will not be able to answer the questions i have put to him. because my whole speech is a series of questions to the european leadership, which has done absolutely nothing to prevent the crimes committed against women in nigeria. nigeria is a party to the cotonou agreement, there are clauses on respect for human rights and women's rights and the commission is beyond that. the political leadership is doing absolutely nothing and the whole issue is left to the philopathology of women's organizations and the media, the pressure of world public opinion. the pressure is certainly very strong and it is working, but at last the european political leadership must also be mobilised and force the nigerian government to do what it must do to protect the rights of women in nigeria. and, commissioner, i would also like to ask you this: what is nigeria? is it a democratic system, is it a secular system, or is it a theocratic system? because on march 25th, the case of amina lawal will be heard in sharia court of appeal. we are completely crazy! we don't know what's going on in nigeria! three years ago we celebrated that democracy had been restored to the country, that we had a democratically elected government. and this government is completely incapable of enforcing the constitution and laws of the country. and it's ruled by mullahs, who sentence women to death by stoning for having sex, he says, outside of marriage. we therefore want the commission and the council to intervene immediately. the leadership needs to take a stand on these issues. that is what we are asking of you, commissioner. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, this war was decided and is being fought today. the reactions of the peoples were not taken into account, nor was it considered necessary to have it legalised by the un. question one: where are we going ? the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to us in the present. question number two: if this dangerous diversion is covered only, i insist, only by our wishes or even our interventions so that the war ends as soon as possible, what will happen in the future? what else has been decided in advance and will be implemented with the same methodology to wish it a speedy conclusion? president bush claims to be fighting dictatorship and dictatorship, comparing the latter to the democracy that he and all of us here serve. question three: the superiority of our democracy requires that we ignore the reactions of the peoples of the world and violate international law by disregarding and denigrating the un and its security council? is that the difference between democracy and dictatorship? is that the difference between dictators and democrats? question four: our old continent, which mr rumsfeld has so contemptuously referred to, is making a tremendous effort to convince us that peace, democracy and solidarity can also develop it and set an example to the world in the right way of peaceful settlement of international disputes. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe, and it is a great help to the people of europe, and it is a great help to the people of europe, and it is a great help to the people of europe, and it is a great help to the people of europe. i have asked four simple questions, mr president, to draw a simpler conclusion: a strong reaction to friends and allies who are leading the world to ruin, guided by the ill-conceived interests of a superpower that is deviating and wants our complicity in this deviation! the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full part in the development of the world. down with the war! long live the peaceful coexistence of peoples! i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, you have always been particularly sensitive when we have had victims, even one victim, of political violence in any country in the world. i would like to propose that, in the light of the deaths of 15 innocent people in a baghdad market today and the deaths of soldiers on both sides, we observe a minute's silence for the victims of this war in iraq.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, when we discussed the iraq crisis in strasbourg 15 days ago, there was still a faint hope that it would be possible to prevent violence and to exhaust all the possibilities for a peaceful settlement of the problems identified in the relevant security council resolutions, and in particular in resolution 1441. unfortunately, this hope has been dashed by the so-called new strategic doctrine, and world opinion is already witnessing a war which, apart from its uniformed and civilian victims, to whom we all pay tribute and respect, has had as its collateral victims the key institutions and elements of international life, such as the un, the guardian of fundamental provisions of the international legal system, transatlantic relations, a necessary factor of international balance and, finally, the cohesion of the european union, at least in the field of foreign policy, an indispensable precondition for a decisive presence on the international scene. all these institutions have been severely damaged and are being sorely tested, so that it is unclear whether they will be able to play their specific role in international affairs in the future or whether they will be able to do so effectively, and they are faced with a number of immediate and long-term negative consequences, the main one of which is, of course, the undermining of the un's credibility and substance and the undermining of its principles and rules by those who adopt unilateralism and arbitrariness instead of reason and legality in their efforts to resolve the problems that are in doubt. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must, on the contrary, look to the future and with the support of the overwhelming majority of peoples and governments, seek, even before the end of the war, which we all hope will be as short as possible, to restore the prestige of the united nations, which will undertake to restore normalcy in iraq, to integrate the transatlantic relationship into a framework of fully equal cooperation, and to safeguard european unity, so that the sad phenomenon we are experiencing these days will never be a precedent in the future, but will be recorded in the past as an example to be avoided!
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, as the president-in-office of the council has pointed out, the spring councils are devoted to the examination and promotion of the european economy. the war conditions that are now surrounding us, imposed not by the americans, not by the american nation, not by the american people, but by the bush administration with its unilateral arrogant policy, and by certain european governments which have taken it upon themselves to break up the european union, are in danger of derailing us from our firm programme. for our part, to remain committed to the long-term programme of the european union is not a formalistic policy, but the method of preserving and beginning to rebuild the deeply wounded unity of europe. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it is the council that has always been a party to the treaty of rome. and while foreign policy is currently dividing us, economic policy can bring us together. to achieve this truly worthwhile and ambitious objective, we need to improve the efficiency and functioning of the macro-economy, complete the financial services market in the union, strengthen entrepreneurship, research, education and the integration of european networks. but how can we go about completing the european networks when, as the president of the commission has pointed out, we are spending only 20 billion euros a year and it will take us 20 years to complete this programme? all these worthy objectives are included in the lisbon policy, but we are forced to realize that we are now in the third year and things in some areas, such as education, are not going as they should. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. their programme, with the means to be mobilised, was one of long-term performance. but we also need immediate measures, given the current situation, with the world economy threatened with recession, so that we can regain the momentum that will enable the lisbon programme to be completed. the european union must not be allowed to be the victim of a single, united, democratic and democratic system, which is not the same as the one we have in europe. if you can bear to see your life's work broken and stoop again, build it again with worn-out tools. and that's what's happening to us right now. that is where our duty lies. and if we fight for it, the time will come when for us, in europe, the truth will win!
mr president, a new resolution on iraq cannot be a step back from what we passed a few weeks ago by a large majority. this resolution was and remains in line with the real problems of the world and with the feelings and reactions of the citizens of our countries, who, in their reaction to an illegal, immoral, preventive and therefore conquering war, expressed themselves as european citizens and formed the only serious and reliable basis for the further construction of europe. many of us here are concerned about the future of the world and europe. but others here are only concerned with justifying their governments, with legitimizing in retrospect choices that lead to the disappearance of the modern international system and the pseudo-international community. the death of the un, to which mr pearl has addressed himself in all sincerity, is no doubt also a matter of marginalizing the european union, both old and new, whatever some of its prospective members may think. the humiliation will continue if we in any way legitimize the invasion of iraq ex post facto. there is no doubt as to who will win militarily and technologically: the invaders. but why should we turn their technical victory into a political victory by our forced ex post facto consent ? the only thing we are historically called upon to do, mr president, is to prepare our contribution to a more balanced world while it is still possible; to make rapid progress towards a qualitative leap in the process of political integration, particularly in the field of foreign and defence policy; the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. those of you here who are eager for other achievements may try to untangle the contradictions that your selfish and divisive choices have led you into. mr president, a great briton, and some of my colleagues will remember him, harold pinter, said: if we do not have the courage, the intelligence and the courage to make europe stand out and against the might of the united states, we will deserve what alexander hertzen said, we are not the doctors, we are the disease.
mr president, on behalf of the members of the communist party of greece, i would first like to protest against the fact that president cox has prevented an anti-war demonstration by bringing members of parliament into conflict with the civil servants. mr president, even today, when imperialist savagery is raging in baghdad and basra, mr simitis, not caring that a people is being murdered in iraq at this moment, is only interested in how to increase the profits of big business. mr simitis did not have the sensitivity to express even a vague criticism of the invaders, respecting the feelings of the overwhelming majority of our peoples, who by the millions denounce the illegal and criminal imperialist incursion and demand its immediate end. the european union must not allow the united states to continue to be the sole source of oil, and the united states must not allow the united states to continue to be the sole source of oil. the european union's complicity was also confirmed by the european council, which effectively covered the members of the european union taking an active part in the war, as well as all the other states giving any kind of facilitation to the invaders, with the country holding the presidency itself as the most prominent. the same attitude is shared by those who sign and support in the european parliament motions for resolutions which do not clearly and unequivocally condemn the crime and do not call for its immediate end. the dirty imperialist war has met the heroic resistance of a people defending its national independence, awakening consciences, provoking huge and continuous protests. the war was a good opportunity to strengthen the so-called lisbon process and to promote measures to intensify the attack which, in the name of competitiveness, directly affects the labour, social, insurance and pension rights of workers. this policy will not go unanswered. the workers, the youth, the people are rising up, building their own coalitions, their own fronts against the imperialist rhetoric to change the balance of power and overthrow this rotten and barbaric system.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, under the present circumstances it seems secondary to reaffirm the objectives of lisbon, because we are all concerned, of course, with the war, its enormous political consequences and the human tragedy. however, i am here to speak about lisbon and i consider that the agreement reached in the council on this subject on joint action by european governments is an important political element of stability in the present conditions of division in europe. it is important that in these difficult circumstances the common political will of european governments to continue efforts in the social field has been expressed. it is also important that these objectives are closely linked to education and research. the latter is in line with the expectations of european citizens, who are well aware that we cannot achieve more and better jobs, greater economic growth without education and research. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are dramatically behind, that is a common finding, but it should lead us to even more vigorous effort. to move forward, greater partnerships are needed in investment projects in all areas and in training and lifelong learning, which together with education and research are connecting vessels. education must demonstrate that it is able to integrate european culture and science into the learning process in order to produce knowledgeable and employable learners.
- this debate is over. i have received 12 motions for resolutions, six on iraq and six on other subjects discussed in the european council, tabled on the basis of rule 37 of the rules of procedure. the vote will take place tomorrow. see minutes of the sitting.
the agenda calls for the report (a5-0077/2003) by mr brok and mr wynn, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, and the committee on budgets, containing the european parliament's recommendations to the council on the introduction of a financial framework in the draft accession treaty. i should like to inform the house that the greek presidency has already informed the european parliament some time ago that the president-in-office of the council should arrive at the airport immediately after his speech in order to be in greece this evening and to be able to attend the meeting tomorrow between the council and the representatives of the latin american countries. the president is confident that the house will understand.
commission. – mr president, i am very pleased to be able to join the house on this debate on the report on the staff regulations, not only because it is always an honour to speak in this house but also because when there has been a very extended period of consideration and so many meetings, a certain family feeling develops. i am very pleased, therefore, to join so many friends tonight who have been my partners in discussion for what seems like an extremely long time. it was, however, a very worthwhile experience. i should like to start by expressing my very deep gratitude to the rapporteurs, mr harbour and mr medina ortega for their very thorough, thoughtful and constructive work on this important issue of the reform of the staff regulations. i also pay tribute to the intensive efforts undertaken by the other members of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market and to the opinion-giving committees and their draftspersons. very substantial work has been done in this house by everyone concerned. i know that the staff of the institutions will recognise the fact that serious and committed attention has been given by parliament to their statute, their employment conditions and their future. i think it will assist the house if i begin by referring to the issues raised in the oral question tabled by four political groups in the house. i was naturally going to highlight several pension issues in my statement this evening. i therefore welcome the questions because they give me the first opportunity since last wednesday's general affairs council to focus explicitly and publicly on those matters. responding to the question may mean that i take a little more time than was originally anticipated. i hope that in a good cause you will bear with me. to help to ensure clarity i should like to ask the house to refer to the draft guidelines that were adopted without change as the conclusions of the general affairs council of 18-19 march 2003. that document has been circulated. i regret that it is only in french and english at this juncture. if honourable members look at paragraph b of those conclusions they will see that the council instructed coreper to prepare a more detailed position, ‘on the issue of adaptation of the pension system’. if members then turn to paragraph d, they will see that the council called on the commission to ‘table by april 2003 a detailed, technical working document setting out a proposal to guarantee actuarial balance as from 1 january 2004’. examination of those paragraphs will show that the only request to the commission was for a proposal for the methodology for a study which would then facilitate calculation of the contributions required to ensure actuarial balance in the pension system. therefore there was no request to the commission to submit, in the words of the question, a detailed document that includes a change in the pension scheme. obviously, the commission will not be producing such a document at any stage. we have never produced such a document and we are not going to do it now. achieving and maintaining an actuarial balance is clearly a somewhat different issue. as honourable members will know, this has always been the obligation under the present article 83(4) of the staff regulations, even though the requirement has not been made consistently operational. the commission's proposal on modernisation of the staff regulations has always, therefore, included a commitment to ensure actuarial balance. of course, the issue was discussed and negotiated in detail with the trade unions and in the interinstitutional staff regulations committee well before the commission proposal went to the council and came to this house last year. so, there is nothing new about the commission's commitment to secure actuarial balance. there is nothing that has not been fully debated and assessed. there is nothing that was not made known and made clear to parliament and the members of the eu civil service and their staff representatives. all that the reference in the general affairs council conclusions relates to is the need for an up-to-date actuarial study that will enable the council and the eu civil service to know, well before 1 january 2004, exactly what the contribution rates by member states and by staff will be. meanwhile, the instruction to coreper in the general affairs council conclusions is to provide a more detailed position on adaptation of the pension system that, in the words of the conclusions, is more consistent with the trends prevailing in member states. that in itself is not surprising since it is obvious that demographic changes, the lisbon strategy and indeed the policy approach of the commission and of this house to so-called 'active ageing' will always ensure that member state governments give attention to issues of retirement and pensions. that reality has in fact ensured that several member state delegations have put forward a paper on pension parameters for the european union civil service, and it is being considered by the council. our response has been to point out that whilst we recognise the need to ensure consistency with the social and economic policy on employment and ageing which we, in the commission, advocate, we also emphatically require proper account to be taken of some basic facts about the employment age profile of the european union civil service, which are of great relevance to any consideration of pension parameters. those facts are, in brief: first that that average starting age of employment in the eu civil service is 32 years and 34 years for policy grade officials. any calculations that made a full pension dependant on more than 35 years of employment and payments would consequently be entirely unrealistic. second, there is the fact that, as your rapporteurs point out, whilst the official pensionable age in the eu civil service is relatively low at 60 years, the average real retirement age of 63.1 years is about three years later than the average retirement age in member states and one year later than in the member state with the highest average retirement age. in many respects therefore, we are implementing a core policy of the lisbon strategy and we have been doing so for several decades. against that background and in the context of actuarial balance, the commission has, in the course of negotiations, indicated some willingness to consider a degree of possible modification of the formal pensionable age. i should like to emphasise that there has been absolutely no conclusion of any kind on that point, or indeed on the other points. in this and in all other matters we have strongly emphasised the need to ensure that the acquired rights and legitimate expectations of present staff are properly respected. that clearly manifests our position. it answers the first question in the oral question. for reasons of emphasis i repeat that any discussion of any potential changes would have to fulfil that requirement on acquired rights and legitimate expectations. increased understanding of those facts induced the council to ask coreper to go away and, as the conclusions of the council show, prepare a more detailed position by the april general affairs council. in addition and to complete the picture, the gac conclusions include paragraph c that proposes further discussions on the weightings that are currently applied to eu civil service pensions in different member states. i know that there are a number of amendments before the house relating to these weightings. the issue is a source of general concern in this house and indeed in the council.since we are in negotiations, the commission can only say at this juncture that we hear those concerns and while we may not support the amendments that have so far been offered, we are aware of the need to deal with this matter within the overall balance of the negotiated final package. i reiterate that in this context, as well as in the wider spheres of reform, the commission will at all times actively seek to uphold the accumulated rights and legitimate expectations of current staff. that is a principle that we uphold and it is one that is understood by member states. i also emphasise that we are conducting the negotiations on the basis of the fundamental principle that nothing is agreed until everything is agreed. any decision on any issue would be subject to reaching an agreement that is mutually satisfactory in overall terms. i would add that we are engaged in complex and sometimes necessarily delicate negotiations; we are not engaged in polemical exchanges. we have confidence in the strength and the realism of our arguments and of our arithmetic. we will continue to strive to ensure that our partners in negotiation in the council will accept both the arguments and the arithmetic. that, obviously, is our sustained and unchanging objective. i regret that i have had to take time to give a detailed response on the important question put by honourable members. i think you will understand that i wanted to give full answers to the questions on this important issue of pensions. i warmly welcome the fact that the report from the committee on legal affairs and the internal market before this house for debate reiterates strong support, as we have heard from the rapporteurs, for the overall reform package and does so in serious, practical terms. in particular i welcome the realistic commitment to the importance of maintaining competitive levels of pay and pensions; a commitment to the introduction of what has become known in shorthand as a promotion guarantee on a collective basis – and i emphasise a collective basis; and a commitment to the inclusion in the staff regulations of 'the method' as the rational, economical and stable means for adjusting pay and pensions. moreover, i am pleased to say that the guidelines adopted by the general affairs council of 18-19 march 2003 echo many of the principles stated by messrs harbour and medina ortega in their explanatory statement and they are equally reflected in numerous amendments before us today. in particular, the guidelines in the council conclusions – paragraphs e, f and g respectively – express support for the broad pay and allowances proposals as a good basis, support the transitional arrangements for the new career system and express an openness towards the inclusion, on a finite basis, of the 'the method' in the staff regulations. in response to the amendments, i will first list the many that the commission can readily support. indeed, i will summarise them because i do not want to test the patience of the house. amendments nos 7, 8, 9 and 48 on the strengthening of interinstitutional cooperation; amendment no 20 on whistleblowing, amendments nos 12 and 14; amendment no 13 on the opening of the assistant 1 to assistant 3 career bracket for specific duties including the duties of parliamentary ushers; amendments nos 9, 25, 48, 50 and 51 tabled by the rapporteurs relating to the status of the staff of the political groups – this means of course that the commission cannot support amendments nos 32 and 60 which go well beyond the position set out wisely by the rapporteurs; amendment no 17 on sexual harassment, we can accept; amendment no 18, amendment no 19, amendments nos 33, 34 and 35 on staff absences; amendments nos 42, 43 and 44 on disciplinary procedures; amendment no 38 on the duration of the membership of the joint advisory committee for professional incompetence – that does not mean that it is in favour of incompetence, of course – it should be the joint advisory committee on professional incompetence. there is second group of amendments on which the commission is prepared to maintain an open mind during negotiations on the overall package or to accept some of the amendments, at least in part. the commission cannot at this juncture give a positive response to amendments on weighted pensions. however, as i said, we are of course conscious of the widespread political concerns relating to pension coefficients and of the need to deal with the matter within the overall balance of the total package. the commission is prepared to accept amendments nos 52 and 54 on the limitation of levels of function of contract agents and on the duration of those contracts; amendments nos 14, 15, 26, 29 and 30 relate to central provisions in the context of a new career system, article 5(3) on the criteria for appointments to the administrator and assistant function groups; article 31 on the organisation of competitions for higher grades, including middle management grades, and article 45 on the certification procedure for transfers from assistant to administrative function groups. all of these articles have, i am glad to say, been subject to intense discussions in council and coreper. the compromises reached as recently as last week will be seen to reflect many, if not all, of the objectives aimed at by members of this house in their amendments. article 31 now allows for the organisation of competitions, for instance, at administrator grades 9, 10, 11 or, on an exceptional basis, 12. remembering that administrator grade 12 will correspond to a higher level than today's grade a4, the total number of candidates appointed to vacant posts at these grades will not exceed 20% of the total number of the appointments by external recruitment to the administrator function group in any one year. that compromise goes further than the outcome sought, for example, by amendment no 26. on the certification procedure, article 45a now makes provision, in paragraph 2, for the european personnel selection office to determine the contents of all examinations organised by the institutions in order to ensure that the basic requirements of a transfer are met in a harmonised and consistent manner. that should make amendment no 30 redundant. on amendments nos 58 and 59 on members' assistants, this house knows the commission has been and always will be very aware and sympathetic to the concerns about this issue in parliament. honourable members will however be aware that of course several member states do not share our joint enthusiasm and there is much work to be done independently of the negotiations on the staff statute. on amendments nos 71 to 74 inclusive, on the recruitment of third country nationals with a permanent right of residence, the commission is aware that there is a discussion amongst political groups about the possibility of finding a compromise arrangement on this issue which is of concern to many honourable members. while sympathetic, the commission is not in a position to accept these amendments as they are currently formulated and therefore i have to reserve my position on this question for the time being. finally, and i am grateful for the patience of the house, there are inevitably some amendments which the commission cannot accept because they would tend to detract from the overall proposal. i will just pick a few, by no means an exhaustive list, but i must say it is outweighed by the number of amendments that we are readily accepting. we cannot accept amendment no 16, amendments nos 14, 15, 26, 29, 30 and 75 – for the reason that i mentioned earlier, i.e. that they are unnecessary because of positive developments in council on these questions; amendments nos 53, 55 and 76 on contract agents – because, as i said earlier, the commission supports amendments nos 52 and 54 from the committee on legal affairs and the internal market; amendment no 32 on the extension of article 50 to administrator grade 12 – we do not think that would be appropriate; amendment no 63 on sexual harassment where the commission supports the text put by the rapporteurs in amendment no 17, and finally amendment no 64 on the expatriation allowance, for the very direct reason that the commission retains the view that the allowance for staff who are expatriate workers is objectively justified and indeed objectively necessary. as the house knows, we have from the outset been committed to providing reforms in the staff regulations which would facilitate radical modernisation whilst upholding the current conditions of employment and improving the career development of members of the european union civil service. the reasons for that are, i hope, recognised to be practical and justified and not insular or conservative. there is a direct connection between reform, motivation and necessary material security. it is both realistic and relevant to acknowledge and to provide for that. this very substantial report from honourable members recognises that practical reality and is a significant step towards the fulfilment of our commitments. i warmly thank all who have been engaged in the compilation of parliament's view and i very much look forward to the adoption of the report in the house tomorrow morning.
the european commission, mr president, despite all the claims to the contrary, is a political reality and has a growing public sphere in which its rapidly expanding separate administration is central. but while this administration is constantly being enlarged and given new tasks, the necessary adjustments have not yet been made. the amendment of the staff regulations of its staff is more necessary than ever to achieve the modernisation of the personnel policy. we all know that technological progress has upended the data on staff organization, something the private sector has long recognised. we also know that the european union is promoting a number of policies, such as improving the quality of work and measures to combat discrimination, the adaptation of working life to family life and flexibility in employment. it would be strange if all these policies which it promotes for european society and european enterprises were not integrated into its own bureaucratic apparatus and if it did not set itself the example of a new model of public administration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the first concerns the adoption of an amendment introducing a common rate for calculating pensions, irrespective of the place of residence of pensioners. the commission's proposal to introduce correction coefficients to adjust the amount of the pension to the purchasing power of the place of residence of pensioners is contrary to the community principle of equality and to the right of free movement. i support the amendment by our group on the need to ensure a climate of peace within the administrative departments of the institutions. it is important to stress that in the new world of work that is coming our way, ensuring mutual trust between all the players is a key element in increasing productivity. finally, i think we should accept our group's amendment which proposes that fixed-term contracts be converted into indefinite contracts where a five-year contract has been renewed for another five years. we think that this, combined with the hiring of contractors, achieves flexibility with the necessary protection.
the committee on constitutional affairs has adopted a number of amendments to the treaty on european union, including the amendment to article 3 of the treaty on european union, which provides for the adoption of a new constitution. mr president, i should first like to congratulate mrs theato on the excellent work she has presented. the committee on constitutional affairs has voted in favour of the creation of the european public prosecutor's office. and he said yes because he believes that the problems facing the european union at the moment need a more systematic approach and a more systematic approach. the commission has also taken the view that the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one. the first concerns the powers of the european prosecutor. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a sad reality, unfortunately, but it is a reality. but he pointed out that the intergovernmental relations and the collective structures towards which the member states are moving require that the door of the powers of the european prosecutor be left open so that in the future, if necessary, other powers may be added to deal with other crimes, and you know very well that, unfortunately, the current international system generates new crimes. the second point that the committee on constitutional affairs points out is the role of the european parliament in relation to the institution of the european public prosecutor. we believe that the european parliament, which first highlighted the issues and problems with pan-european crime, should be the institution to which the european prosecutor will be accountable. thirdly, the issue of the european prosecutor is linked to the development of european criminal law, which is a development that will come, and finally, mr president, i think it is important to point out, within the logic of the european union's relations with the member states, the relationship that the european prosecutor should have with national prosecutors.
in writing. - (el) the proposal for a reform of the staff regulations calls on the european union to apply the general choices made by large companies to its services, since it promotes the compression of public services and attacks the rights of workers. efforts to cut wages and benefits, to impose new taxes and to drastically reduce pensions and pension rights are all part of this attack on workers' rights. the abolition of services and greater favouritism and dependency are promoted in the context of a weakening of the role of public services and a kind of more vigorous and particular nepotism that will serve the interests of pressure groups, large companies and powerful political families. the majority of employees and trade unions in the various institutions of the european union reject mr kinnock's proposal. but mr kinnock is using his usual tricks, with the connivance of some trade union leaders, to try to deal a decisive blow to the european public service and set an example for the public administrations of the member states. we support the just demands of the workers and their movement. we believe that the european parliament should stick to the idea that this question requires the codecision procedure. in addition, parliament should not allow the commission and the council to take decisions without any form of control on a matter which, moreover, also affects the proper functioning of parliament.
in writing. - (el) the brussels summit did not utter a single word of condemnation, even a slight one, for the crime perpetrated against the iraqi people. it has turned its attention to this imperialist war only to express its fear that it might cause a fall in the profits of big business and to propose preventive measures to intensify its attack on the people. in the name of the "lisbon objectives", which are wrongly named and contrary to the people, the brussels summit decided to promote policies and measures, in the name of competitiveness and entrepreneurship, which undermine the right to employment, social rights, the right to insurance and pension rights. guidelines have been launched to extend and expand temporary and parttime employment, agency systems and flexible working relationships, basically by abolishing collective agreements, further reducing social spending, transferring the wealth of the people to private capital, liberalizing the public sector and public services, encouraging the transformation of health and health care into commodities and the privatization of insurance systems. of course, they are mistaken if they think that workers will be distracted by false promises and pr gimmicks. they are the ones who are feeling the impact of the recession, the steady erosion of wages and the falling standard of living. they are organising and intensifying their struggle against the choices of big business and the european union. more and more radical popular demonstrations are taking place and the wave of opposition to the cruelties of capitalism is growing in every member state of the european union.
in writing. - (el) the greek presidency of the council maintains that it is making a leap forward in overcoming the major differences that exist within the european union over iraq. she forgets the innocent victims in baghdad, the relentless siege of basra and the rivers of blood. it is about who, of the united states or the united nations, will govern iraq after the war. in fact, we've taken a step back, to the 19th and early 20th century, when france, britain and spain were arguing and trading over who would control morocco, libya and egypt. the european union must not be intimidated by what is happening; it must demand an end to this illegal war, in accordance with article 11 of the treaties which requires that its foreign policy be in accordance with the principles of the united nations charter. it must also condemn the british government. tony blair is of course preparing to come to athens in a few days' time for the signing of the treaty by the 10 new member states on 16 april. he'd better not. the greek population does not welcome him. if he persists, if the bloody invader of iraq sets foot on the soil of freedom in greece, he can be sure that he will not soon forget the welcome he has received from the greek people, a welcome that is peaceful, of course, but full of patriotic declarations and songs.
in writing. - (el) apart from the fact that the european parliament ultimately proved incapable of approving a resolution on iraq, the way in which the majority of members voted on individual amendments is indicative of the way in which parliament is dealing with this new demonstration of imperialist barbarism. all the amendments condemning the war as unjust and illegal and asking member states not to provide their facilities to the invaders were rejected. the majority of members went so far as to vote against the amendments which merely stated the obvious: this war is being waged without the approval of the united nations, most members of the security council are opposed to it and it has led to millions of people demonstrating in the streets every day. the amendments adopted, on the other hand, show that the european parliament is only interested in the so-called 'reconstruction' of iraq, including its share of the cake, and in the further militarization of the eu by strengthening the common security and defence policy. it seems to us that the more iraqi blood on the hands of the american and british imperialists, the more the masks of the so-called moderate european imperialists will fall. the only opponent that can stop the war and overthrow the powers that support it is the popular anti-imperialist movement.
mr president, we can only condemn the contemptuous attitude of the us secretary of state towards our european partners in nato and the european union, when he refused to be removed from his throne and accepted the troika of the european union and his other counterparts at nato headquarters as the new leader. mr powell demanded the retroactive legitimisation of the dirty imperialist war by the united nations and the ratification of the central role of the united states in the distribution of the plunder of the iraqi people. in return, he offered the european union and nato countries the possibility of getting some crumbs from the bloodstained spoils of iraq if they funded so-called humanitarian aid. mr. president, the council must explain to us why no one in their meetings with mr. powell uttered a word of condemnation of the war. what is this new role of the united nations to which the greek presidency is now referring? it must explain to us whether, despite the continuing and massive protest of the peoples of europe, the european union is prepared to play the role of undertaker, whether the european union is prepared to follow the instructions of the united states faithfully, as is implied by the public statements of government officials. such a policy, which directly serves the interests of big business, will provoke even greater popular reactions.
commission. – mr president, i am pleased to have this opportunity to inform this house of the circumstances surrounding the condition known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or sars, to use the acronym. it can be divided into a number of different questions. what is it? where does it come from? how does it spread? how can we stop it? this syndrome is a respiratory disease that has recently been reported in asia, north america and europe. the illness usually begins with a fever, sometimes associated with other symptoms such as chills, headache and body aches. after two to ten days sars patients may develop a cough that might progress to difficulties in breathing. in 10 to 20% of cases patients will require mechanical ventilation. it is estimated that in 4% of cases sars proves to be fatal. at present no treatment beyond good intensive and supportive care has been consistently shown to improve the condition of persons with sars. in relation to the causative agent, the scientists have detected a previously unrecognised virus belonging to the family of coronaviruses in patients with sars. while the new coronavirus is still the leading hypothesis for the cause of sars, other viruses are still under investigation as potential causes. on the question of transmission, the principal way sars appears to be spread is through respiratory secretions called droplets, namely, when someone with sars coughs or sneezes droplets into the air and someone else breathes them in. nevertheless, other ways of transmission cannot be ruled out, such as direct close contact with an infected person. in particular, health-care workers or household members of a sars patient have been known to be affected. but concern has been raised on other potential ways of transmission. on the question of the origin: recently a who investigation team has been authorised by the chinese government to travel to guangdong province. scientists currently speculate that the sars virus either jumped to humans from an animal species or mutated into a more virulent form. in its continuing work, the who team is expected to visit foshan city, where the first case of sars was reported. on the question of numbers in the european union, all 15 member states have reported to the commission a total of 46 cases - 19 probable and 27 suspected - with no deaths. it is also important to note that there has been no local transmission within the european union. in the candidate countries, efta and other european countries, 14 countries have reported data, a total of eight cases - three probable and five suspected - with no deaths. in the other countries, to date a total of 2396 cases have been reported, including 89 deaths. the unknown factors combined with the global spread of this disease have inevitably prompted extensive media attention. however, we should not lose sight of the fact that although sars is often referred to as a ‘killer pneumonia’, estimates indicate that it kills fewer people than ‘normal’ influenza. sars, however, demonstrates very clearly that we are living in a truly global environment, where the increasing mobility of people also enables diseases to move ever more freely. because of the ease and extent of modern travel, an increasing level of preparedness is required across borders to deal with the threat posed by communicable diseases. in the european union, surveillance and coordination at community level need to be strengthened to address the threat to public health. i have been stressing this need for some time now, and in the european convention, the report prepared by mr katiforis has recognised this and i hope the convention will take this up in its discussions. the eu communicable diseases network started its work three years ago to detect and control communicable diseases in people, irrespective of the cause and means of transmission. this network serves to survey and investigate the outbreaks. this also involves identifying the cause and defining control measures. the commission’s role is to coordinate and support these activities. this sars outbreak puts to the test the real capacities of the two pillars of the network – epidemiological surveillance and early warning. the network committee has, together with the commission, defined and put into operation an effective surveillance system. this system picks up all suspected sars cases and gives a complete and clear picture of developments during the outbreak. obviously we have to be cautious, and err on the side of safety. this approach seems to be working: most of the suspected cases turn out to be something else. however, this does not give grounds for complacency. the european union surveillance strategy on sars is fully connected to the global surveillance coordinated by the world health organisation. the second element of this strategy is prevention. we must work together to reduce exposure to the disease. unnecessary travel to affected areas should be discouraged or postponed. hong kong and the guangdong province of china have been identified in this respect by the who. this is under constant review and further advice will be issued if the situation in other regions warrants travel restrictions. similarly, all would agree on the importance of health screening on departure from the affected areas and the provision of information to passengers and flight crews. the commission is playing its role of coordinator, and encouraging common approaches and criteria. during the last three weeks my services have tried to integrate national measures with global ones, through regular meetings, audio-conferences and consultations with the member states, candidate countries and the who. sars, of course, entails other dimensions in addition to public health implications. the sars outbreak has already made a political and economic impact. travel advice has had an impact on air travel and tourism in asia. now, industry exhibitions and meetings have been postponed and it is predicted that asia’s economic growth may be affected. obviously, earlier notifications to the who by those affected could have mitigated many of the effects. this is a key lesson for the future. i must stress that the capacity of the commission to extend its coordinating and facilitating role any further is currently at its very limit. in the absence of new arrangements to pool the existing expertise we will not be able to go beyond our current efforts. i have referred on many occasions to our plans to strengthen our capacity to deal with communicable diseases. in my view, the most effective way to strengthen community activities is to set up a european centre for disease prevention and control. as many of you will be aware, we are well advanced in the preparation of the enabling legislation which i intend to table in the next couple of months. my proposal will be to establish such a centre by 2005. the centre will enhance surveillance. it will coordinate and facilitate common responses, and collaborate with member states, third countries and international organisations, in particular the who. it will not replace existing national capacities, but rather hook them up to act as a reference and coordination point both in routine and crisis situations. this will also play an important role in an enlarged europe. on a multinational level the sars situation can be said to be under control, but not improving, as had initially been expected. in europe the situation still appears to be manageable. however, the strict control procedures will have to continue. in the fight to beat this disease it is crucial for anybody who believes they have the symptoms and have travelled in the affected areas to consult their doctor. we must not neglect the support that the eu and its member states can give to the affected countries in their search for the cause and the remedy. there is still an ongoing discussion whether the responsible agent is close to the common cold or coronavirus. we must continue to support the who in its endeavours in this regard. finally, i can assure you that the commission will continue with the member states, and in close collaboration with the candidate countries and the who, to do everything within its powers to defeat the spread of sars. in response to what mr de rossa said earlier, i can say that there have been preliminary discussions with the council to organise a meeting of the council in the near future to discuss this issue further.
mr president, i think today is a great opportunity to discuss and understand some of the key issues of public health and to take them a little further at the level of the european union. and i would say, because i have had the honour of being the rapporteur of the public health programme for the european union for the next five years, that it is very important that one of the three pillars of this programme is to promote the rapid response to health threats. i would like to make a few comments and then go back to what the commissioner said about a centre, which is now necessary to be able to deal effectively with health threats. you all know very well that the mobility that exists today -- millions of people traveling to all parts of the world -- has given a huge boost to infectious diseases. and you saw this in the case of acute respiratory failure, where we started in a province in china and we've now gotten to cases in europe. the second important element is that we have sudden outbreaks of new diseases. in the last twenty years, there have been 30 new infectious diseases or mutations of old ones, or even old diseases that are resurfacing, like tuberculosis to give one example. so all of this is happening and it requires constant vigilance, constant monitoring and a way of being able to respond, mainly in an organized and coordinated way. you have to add to that that we have the known antibiotic resistance that germs develop. today someone goes to be treated for an a disease in the hospital and suddenly suffers a hospital infection from which he is often struck very seriously. well, these kinds of germs, which we can't treat with antibiotics, they also pose a risk and we need to be able to do research and treat them. i would like to add, finally, the last fact, bioterrorism. bioterrorism, that is terrorism that can be done with bacterial seeds or with viruses or with any other means, also requires a coordinated and proper response to the threat. i will now come back to the conclusions i have drawn from what i said, namely that what we really need at european union level is what the commissioner said earlier, we need a centre which studies, monitors and is able to coordinate these responses because it will have the capacity, because it will have the network of laboratories, because we will be able to investigate diseases quickly and we will be able to find the causes and the cures quickly. so we have to move this centre forward, have the courage to do it. i had the opportunity in november to have a symposium for this centre in the european parliament, under the auspices of the european people's party, attended by thirty of the most important epidemiologists. i'll read you the conclusion in english, which is from november, before the acute respiratory failure, and it says that:
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. severe acute respiratory syndrome has so far affected 2 416 people of all ages and has caused 89 deaths in mainly asian countries. significantly, the authorities in china, where the outbreak first appeared, have belatedly allowed experts from the world health organization to visit the southern region of the country to help investigate the causes and transmission of the disease. the speed of the spread of the epidemic demonstrates the importance of prompt reporting of any suspected case. i therefore believe that the european commission must use all the means at its disposal to persuade third countries to inform all the relevant bodies immediately and to cooperate effectively, regardless of whether they have signed a cooperation agreement with the world health organization. in the european union, the number of cases is 46. it concerns people who had travelled to one of the countries where the disease is endemic, without any case of secondary transmission or death being reported to date. i hope that this encouraging evidence is due not only to the early warning system, which has made a significant contribution to the necessary precautions, but also to the high level of hospital care. further cooperation between the member states and the world health organization will allow for continuous exchange of information so that any additional measures deemed necessary in the light of new data can be taken, but this will not be considered sufficient. it is understood that i am referring clearly to the health aspect of the problem and not to the economic impact of restricting air transport and tourism to high-risk areas. as has been said before, commissioner, the emergence of new threats to public health makes it imperative to develop systems that can respond in a timely, immediate and effective manner to the daily risks and challenges. to this end, the following measures are appropriate in addition to the existing instruments: - the immediate establishment and operation of a european centre for the control and surveillance of infectious diseases, similar to the cdc in the united states. the centre will be important in the operation of a network of laboratory research into epidemics and related research; - it is useful to set up an expert group - task force - to deal with natural epidemics rather than purely intentional ones, as has already been done with bioterrorism; the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide financial support for the development of the community's energy policy. the commission is aware of the efforts made by the greek presidency to strengthen the legal basis in the field of public health. i hope that this unfortunate situation will make this necessity clearer and convince those who disagree.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at this time our thoughts must be with the iraqi people who are being slaughtered by the american and british invaders under the conniving eyes of the european union, which is only interested in how to get a share of the loot. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the proposal for a decision under discussion establishes the european union's master programmes and, secondarily, finances access to them for students and teachers from third countries. the first, in flagrant violation of article 149 of the treaty, is another step towards the imposition of a specific educational model for higher education which is none other than the notorious bologna model. the opening up to third countries is not done to help them develop their human resources. it serves as a cover for the passing of master's degrees and as a mechanism for cultural penetration of the european union, a prerequisite for economic penetration and the strengthening of its political influence at international level. it is characteristic that the text states that europe's political and commercial success in the world depends on the better understanding and links with europe of future decision-makers in third countries. the european union's main objective in the field of education is to provide european monopolies with a docile workforce, equipped not with knowledge but with the skills required at the time. this is the reason for the need to bring the structure of studies closer to the bologna model, with a three-year undergraduate course for the majority of students, a two-year specialisation for the elite and a three-year doctoral degree for the elite of the elite. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the introduction of a european system of qualifications for university graduates is a step in the right direction. the european union is also seeking to promote the european higher education market in competition with the united states. this of course requires the creation of such a market and the adaptation of european universities to its laws and priorities. the result will be the complete commercialisation of education, as exemplified by the quality label for study programmes mentioned in the text, as if it were a car or an orange. the quality assurance and evaluation mechanisms in question are nothing but mechanisms for adapting training to the needs of enterprises. the communist party of greece is categorically opposed to the motion for a resolution because it interferes with the content of studies, encourages the privatization of higher education for commercialisation, promotes the division of undergraduate studies into two cycles according to the bologna model and the subordination of higher education to the demands of multinationals, contrary to the interests of students, teachers and the peoples of the european union. the minimum we are asking for is the abolition of action one, the european masters, and i have tabled an amendment to that effect.
mr president, some of the points in the buitenweg report, and even more so in the cappato motion, could easily be supported by drug dealers, by the pharmaceutical companies that manufacture substitutes and by those who would rather see young people under the influence of drug culture than fight for their rights or protest against the imperialist invasion of iraq. there is no mention of the social causes of addiction, nor of prevention or recovery. the un studies on the negative effects of legalization and substitution are being discredited, and their harmfulness is even being called into question by the proposal for categorization and by the demand for new studies on their effects. mr cappato goes so far as to say that the marginalisation of drug addicts is not due to drugs but to the illicit nature of their use. even more outrageous is his claim that prohibition is to blame for the increase in drug use. it thus vindicates the merchants and capitalist society and condemns the youth. the european parliament has an opportunity to protect young people from drug dealers and their friends by voting against the report by a large majority or by radically reforming it.
mr president, commissioner, it is a matter of common agreement that there is an urgent need for a coordinated policy at international level to combat drug dependence and related crime. the meeting on the mid-term review of the un action plan to be held in vienna will give us the opportunity to have a scientifically based discussion on the effectiveness of the measures implemented so far. the objectives set at the new york conference in june 1998 were admittedly quite ambitious. several aspects of that plan have been successful, such as the balanced approach between reducing demand and reducing supply, and the collection of statistics in such a way as to ensure comparability between countries. the un drug conventions are an important framework for successful policy. however, an evaluation and updating is needed, taking into account changes in the international environment, new data in the field, the effectiveness of pilot programmes and the speed of production and trafficking of new addictive substances. it is our duty to study all the above carefully and to assess whether the conditions in force are ultimately considered to be appropriate and adequate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the european parliament's recommendation today is very much in line with this and i should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the use of these substances, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have tabled question no 47, mr president, on the protection of the dry stone, the rock that is found on the greek islands and prevents soil erosion. it's an environmental issue, only environmental issue. it's not a matter of foreign policy or anything else. this question should have been included in the questions to mrs wallström and i ask for it to be included, and first in the order of the number of motions. it is a question for mrs wallström. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would ask the commission to take this opportunity to reply to the question put by mr wallström, in view of the time it has been tabled and the serial number it has.
commission. – as concerns the first strand of the question, that is whether echo’s office in amman is adequate for the current needs of the region, i would like in the first place to clarify the following. the echo office in amman is the regional hub for the iraq crisis. this office has recently expanded and now has seven expatriate technical assistants and 10 local staff positions. it covers iraq and the rest of the middle east. there is also an antenna in jerusalem consisting of one expatriate technical assistant and three local-official positions. amman was selected as regional hub for this crisis because this office has adequate human and logistic resources to respond immediately to the new needs in the field. the technical assistant's role is to assess the situation on the ground, analyse the needs and make recommendations to echo. once aid is approved, the technical assistant monitors its implementation on the ground. the technical assistant also coordinates with other donors and humanitarian stakeholders. it must, however, be emphasised that echo is not an implementing organisation. the actual delivery of humanitarian aid is undertaken by echo's partners. these are international humanitarian organisations, such as the red cross, un agencies and european humanitarian ngos. regular monitoring visits were carried out before the crisis. three missions from headquarters and the field have visited iraq since january this year. the main aim of these visits was to prepare for the consequences of what was then a potential crisis. such visits have now been suspended. echo technical assistants are currently following the crisis from amman. echo will restart needs assessment and monitoring missions as soon as security conditions allow. echo will then reassess the need to further strengthen its presence on the ground. for the time being, however, echo sees its presence as adequate. as for the viability of a permanent structure in iraq and in the region, i can already say that, as was done with afghanistan, echo intends to open an office in baghdad as soon as the security situation improves. this office will be answerable to the regional office in amman. it is possible that some personnel will be transferred from amman to baghdad. echo also envisages opening an office in iran if there are large movements of refugees there. echo amman is ready to provide operational, logistic and administrative back-up for the future echo antenna in baghdad in the form of staff, equipment, assistance and so on at the outset of a presence there. as regards the evaluation of echo's activities, i would like to recall, in the first place, that an independent broader evaluation of echo's functioning carried out in 1999 stated that 'echo is currently financing the delivery of humanitarian assistance at least as well as any other organisation, and probably better and in a more cost-efficient manner than any other comparable international organisation'. there were also a number of recommendations and specific critical points in this evaluation and we have followed up very actively on the evaluation. we do this with a view to improving the overall quality of echo's management of activities, also including the verification of the results. i would like to mention the main ones. first of all, echo has introduced the logical framework approach and promoted the use of standardised performance indicators, to better measure the results and evaluate the impact of its activities wherever possible. this will also stimulate an improvement of the project proposals we get from our implementing partners and we can already see clearly this effect. echo has in parallel increased the supervision and the technical coordination of all the financed activities, notably at field level, by increasing the technical assistance capacity and creating regional support offices, as i just explained regarding the situation in amman, and also working towards a more standardised basic approach in each sector of intervention, especially in the area of health support. another step forward in the improvement of our performance based on lessons learned was the establishment of strategic programming dialogues in order to strengthen cooperation and strategies at operational and policy level. since 2000, an extensive ever-improving strategic dialogue has been taking place with all major echo partners: un agencies, ngos and other international organisations. echo has furthermore given increased priority and now prepares better for the interfaces of linking rehabilitation, relief, development and so on, playing a more proactive role, calling for coordination meetings with relevant commission services and other donors, both at field and headquarters levels. projects are earmarked with aid phases identifying those operations which can possibly be handed over to development donors, and this whole effort has been quite successful. if we look at east timor, kosovo and even afghanistan, this gradual handing over has been better than in the case of previous conflicts. in parallel with the introduction of these key elements for improving performance, every year echo now presents an evaluation plan by the start of the new budgetary year. evaluations are thus synchronised with the planning and implementation of all stages of echo's operations. evaluations focus on country operations, on partners and thematic issues. the evaluation plan ensures, on a two-yearly basis, that all major operations are now being evaluated. a programme of evaluation using external consultants, and focused on echo operations, partners' capacity as well as on specific thematic issues, is therefore ongoing. of particular relevance are the recent evaluations of the unhcr and the world food programme, major international partners which also play a major role in the present crisis in iraq. the evaluation reports are periodically published on echo's website, once member states have been informed. lastly, it should be mentioned that echo has also undertaken the implementation of the commission reform programme. this has positively influenced all administrative and financial aspects of the commission's work. echo is today in a totally different situation compared to the situation when this commission came into office. a recent article in european voice made me think that what was promised by me in the hearing in parliament in august 1999 has been delivered. echo is today, for good reason, a respected player in the game of international humanitarian aid. coming to the last part of the question, as regards the existence of an agreement with the united nations for tackling 'the day after' in iraq, i recall what the european council stated on 21 march, that the un should play a central role during and after the current crisis. my view here is simply that the un system has a unique – i repeat: unique – legitimacy, mandate, capacity and practical experience in coordinating assistance in post-conflict situations. that is where that discussion should start.
commissioner, thank you very much for your reply. i would like to ask you specifically, given that this humanitarian crisis which we have been experiencing for the last 20 days is shocking for all of us, whether you have taken any initiative to engage in dialogue with the belligerents, especially with the united kingdom, which is also a member of the european union; secondly, what are the recommendations you have received from the ngos? as for the un, i'm glad you're taking the stand. that's my opinion too. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when do you think there will be a supply network again, since the old one is obviously being dismantled?
mr president, i too would like to begin by warmly congratulating the rapporteur on her excellent report, as the commissioner has acknowledged before, and i would also like to express my satisfaction that the greek presidency has managed, after long consultations, to close - not start, but close - this chapter on family reunification of legal immigrants, which has been pending for several years in the council. however, commissioner, i think you should also take the european parliament's proposals seriously. as chairman of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities in parliament, i consider this initiative for family reunification to be important, because it will help particularly women and children who are often unable to follow their husbands in their efforts to migrate to european union countries in search of a better life for themselves and their families. i will tell you very characteristically that three years ago i was invited to a general assembly of the bangladesh community in athens, and i walked into a hall of a thousand people with very few women. and when i expressed my wonder why women were not in the assembly, that was when i first realized the magnitude of the problem. they told me that our women and children are back in our countries because we have no right to bring them back. i am therefore very pleased that, even with this council decision which does not entirely satisfy parliament, a serious decision has been taken on this matter. the directive also sets out the rights of members of the family to be reunited, rights relating to education and employment, in order to ensure both their smooth integration into the society of the member state and the safeguarding of their employment rights, so that they do not become cheap labour on the labour market. finally, i should like to stress that family reunification is not only part of the effort towards a coherent immigration policy, but also a means of strengthening the community's social policy itself.
the commission is very pleased to note the support which your parliament has given it through mr bayona's report, which i should like to congratulate, following our communication of 2 july on an information and communication strategy for the european union. it is particularly important, in view of the interinstitutional strategy we wish to develop to strengthen the image of the european union, that all the institutions subscribe to and participate in the achievement of this common objective. the commission therefore welcomes the commitment of parliament and the concrete proposals which mr bayona has put forward in his report, combining technical expertise with the political sensitivity of the subject. i would like to answer that in two parts. i shall first discuss the general objectives of this common strategy and then the modalities of its implementation. the definition and implementation of an information and communication strategy for the european union cannot be achieved without the support and active participation of the council, of course, but also and above all of the member states. this leads us to reflect for a moment, as mr bayona invites us to do, on the link between information and citizenship, especially in the run-up to next year's elections. the commission believes that the main objective of an active information and communication policy must be to improve the public's perception of the european union: in short, to raise awareness of the european dimension of citizenship. the commission therefore takes note of the rapporteur's proposal that the text of the constitution, currently being drafted, may make express reference to the need to implement an information and communication policy as a precondition for the exercise of european citizenship. the commission also fully supports your proposal to emphasize the common european values of democracy, pluralism, security, solidarity, equal opportunities, cohesion, etc., in the information of the union. the aim, mr rapporteur, is to show citizens the practical benefits of belonging to the union in their daily lives. in this context, as you yourself have pointed out, the dissemination of information in all the languages of the union is a necessity which must be preserved and developed. the expression of this citizenship must be expressed through active participation in the next european elections. this crucial meeting for the democratic life of the union must be our common objective. it is clear that this alone fully justifies the strengthening of our interinstitutional cooperation. but is not the best way of encouraging citizens to vote to help them better understand, through objective education, the major issues of european integration? that is why we have agreed to define four major information topics for the period 2003-04, after the great campaign for the euro: enlargement, the future of the union, the area of freedom, security and justice, and europe's role in the world. without excluding other subjects, in particular the economic and social agenda, these themes, especially enlargement and the future of the union, are now a priority, particularly in view of the parallel calendar which characterizes them. they are thus the best means of raising awareness among our national public opinion of the importance of the great event of 2004. i would like to reassure the house on this point. the commission will strictly respect the priorities set by the european parliament when voting on the budget and has no intention of changing, in any way whatsoever, the balance of the prince programme, as decided by the budgetary authority. however, let me state objectively, as i have done on many occasions in the past, that the doubling of the appropriations for the prince programme, voted by your assembly for the 2003 budget, will naturally raise important practical problems of implementation. the commission would have liked to have been able to anticipate this by consulting the competent authorities of parliament beforehand, in accordance with the spirit of interinstitutional collaboration which must govern the operation of the prince programme. as regards the implementation arrangements, in response to the rapporteur's request for an information campaign, with a view to the 2004 elections, which would make particular use of television as a means of communication - and it is understood that this campaign should be promoted and coordinated by the commission - we have decided to launch a wide-ranging call for audiovisual proposals on the subject of enlargement and the future of europe. this integrated approach, which reflects the complementary nature of these two subjects, will provide a new and important lever for the audiovisual sector in europe. this will apply equally to producers and audiovisual broadcasters, in order to reach citizens as closely as possible through the media they prefer to learn more about the union. as you know, the role of the european union is much better understood by third countries than within the member states themselves. at our last meeting at the level of the interinstitutional group, we felt it was essential to develop targeted information campaigns, first among opinion-makers and appropriate contacts, on the role of the union in the world as from this year. as the foreign affairs committee of the european parliament rightly points out, this aspect of our information and communication strategy must be developed rapidly. it is all the more justified in view of the seriousness of the recent events. at this stage, and in full agreement with the council, it is proposed to include and develop three guidelines within this framework. first, globalisation, in line with the cancún meeting this autumn. secondly, the neighbourhood policy, which, following enlargement, has acquired a new geostrategic importance. finally, the common foreign and security policy and its first developments in the field of defence. you know that the commission has tabled an amending and supplementary budget to this end. the development of this new theme, as of this year, is therefore now in your hands. mr president, these are, in a nutshell, the commission's main observations on mr bayona's excellent report. as you have seen, our common approach, the result of long experience between the institutions, is certainly bearing fruit. but to be effective, this concerted approach between the institutions must undoubtedly find an echo in most member states. only a structured partnership with the competent national authorities will enable the full potential of this strategy, now shared by the institutions, to be exploited and to have maximum effect at regional and even local level, in the general interest of the union and for the benefit of all our citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
the committee on foreign affairs, human rights and common security and defence policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, it is true that public opinion is bombarded today with a wealth of news, messages, information, thanks to the multiplicity of means of communication and the ease of access to them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. however, the result is the ever-increasing confusion of public opinion with all the corresponding consequences, namely a distorted or distorted view of reality, an uncritical rejection or acceptance of facts, information, symbols, perceptions, opinions and therefore the possibility of manipulation. all these are consequences which experience shows are not being tackled by individual programmes and information campaigns. the information provided to the citizens of the european union should therefore be objective, free from any influence from politics or any other authority. citizens should be informed of european positions and policies, particularly on important issues such as foreign affairs and matters relating to the security and defence of the european union. particular emphasis should be placed on the issues of political legitimacy, democratic control and transparency in decision-making. in addition, the information must be clear and well-founded. this means that the media should report not what is deemed necessary to be reported but any decision that has been taken and concerns issues that are important to the member states. this will make it possible for all citizens of the european union to better understand the decisions taken by its institutions, which are often misrepresented and give the impression that they are not in fact correct. topics of high priority such as enlargement, the relationship between european policies and daily life and the problems of european citizens, especially after the accession of new countries to the european union, which is expected to bring about significant changes in european agricultural, budgetary and financial policy, need to be the subject of full and well-founded information. the problem is particularly acute in the periphery, where information is either lacking or limited. in these areas, there should be closer and more effective cooperation with the local authorities of each member state, so that information is accessible to everyone. more immediate and more objective information could be achieved by live broadcasting of important events, such as the decision-making at plenary and parliamentary committee meetings, for example the foreign affairs committee, via television channels or, to avoid high costs, via the internet. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of the opinion of the european parliament. the rightly informed european citizen is also a powerful and necessary condition for deepening european integration and strengthening its role in the world. efforts and initiatives should therefore be intensified and systematised in view of the shortcomings in this area as well, and information to citizens should be complete, substantiated, clear and accessible. the report we are discussing today is the very essence of the information and policy issue for this strategy of communication with the citizens of the european union, and on this occasion, mr president, i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr bayona, for his excellent work.
commission. – mr president, at this hour of the night i should not venture to make a statement. i would just like very much to thank the members of the house for the views they have expressed and very briefly to address two or three questions that were raised. first, we are committed to the strategy of having common houses between the commission and parliament. at the end of next month we will provide parliament with a report on the state of play as far as creating those common houses are concerned. we will have, on that occasion, the opportunity to discuss the issue that mr andreasen has raised. as far as television is concerned, according to our polls 64% of european citizens recognise that whatever they know about the european union comes from television. that is why we have launched a common invitation to tender for an audiovisual strategy to cover the issues concerning enlargement and the future of europe. we are pursuing the feasibility study on the europe channel. we have been in close contact with the services of the european parliament and we are also following the evolution of the european audiovisual public sector, including the situation of euronews, to have an overall picture and a better assessment of what we can do in the audiovisual sector, including television, to provide more information to the citizens. finally, as mr karas said, the strategy cannot be developed just by the central institutions of the european union. the challenge ahead of us is to build a partnership with the member states, with regional and local authorities, to promote information about the union. that partnership requires mutual confidence and a change in the culture of communication. of course, as you have said, if europe is made the scapegoat for everything that goes wrong, it will be extremely difficult to portray what we do in a positive light. but at the end of the day i hope that member states will understand that if they carry on with such a strategy, sooner or later, when they have to ask for the consent of citizens for the european project, they will be the first victims to fall to the ground. therefore i hope that this strategy will improve step by step. i am optimistic because, for the first time, the council has engaged in close interinstitutional cooperation with parliament and the commission to develop information and communication strategies on the most important subjects. that partnership, which is on a voluntary basis, will start producing concrete results. those member states that produce concrete results will be the guiding light for the others to follow. we will succeed.
president of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. -(the speaker began in macedonian. the following paragraph is a translation)mr president, distinguished members of the european parliament, it is with great appreciation and pleasure that i speak to you today. the european parliament embodies a vision of europe that is shared today by millions of people, not only inside but also outside of the current european union, including by the citizens of the republic of macedonia. it is vision of a continent of diversity, where different traditions, cultures and languages meet on the basis of mutual respect and common interests. it is the vision of an integrated space for people, of freedom of movement, of a common market and european policies to address common concerns. (the speaker continued in english)this vision of the european founding fathers has today become a reality for the citizens of the european union, for millions of students studying at universities outside their country, for businessmen linked through trade and investment, and for politicians and civil servants who meet on a daily basis to develop joint responses to the challenges of our age. soon the european union will embrace 10 new countries, with their citizens partaking in the european dream of common peace and prosperity. elected representatives from these countries will sit in this chamber, as a result of one of the greatest achievements of international politics: the peaceful pooling of sovereignty on the basis of shared values and common interests. i want to use this opportunity today to share with you my thoughts on what this vision of a united europe means to the people of my country, the republic of macedonia. the citizens of the republic of macedonia share the same values and have the same interests as the citizens of those other countries that will soon join the union. there is a strong political consensus that accession to the european union is the overriding political objective. there is a strong commitment to do what is necessary to meet criteria for accession and to undertake the required efforts. two years ago some – in the european union and in the republic of macedonia – might have had doubts about whether european accession would actually become a reality in our lifetime. the state then faced the most serious crisis in its recent history. we were all looking into an abyss and feared the worst. then, however, we managed to step back. i want to express the appreciation of the citizens of my country to all those, in this chamber and in other european and transatlantic institutions, who stood by the republic of macedonia in these difficult moments and supported our efforts to move from armed conflict to peaceful, political conflict resolution. when a conflict is resolved peacefully and no longer makes newspaper headlines it is sometimes quickly forgotten, but the ceaseless efforts made by romano prodi, javier solana, chris patten and lord robertson deserve to be remembered as one of the most successful and timely interventions ever undertaken by the european union and by nato. (applause) in this difficult period, macedonia discovered that it had many friends – including in this chamber, where parliamentarians from all political groups, have supported the cause of stabilising our state and reassuring our citizens. the role of the special representatives has also been very important and much appreciated. today, macedonia has returned to peace and we are more determined than ever to make up for lost time. progress in implementing the framework agreement is steady. we recently signed a new agreement with the international monetary fund. the republic of macedonia was, of course, the first country in the region to sign a stabilisation and association agreement with the european union. it is my conviction that the momentum created in the last two years, and which has allowed my country to move from armed conflict to renewed progress on the road to european integration must not be lost. the republic of macedonia is taking part in the development of a common european security and defence policy. the sofa agreement of the eu forces has been unanimously adopted by the assembly, which clearly reflects the trust of european defence and security capabilities. this european mission must be a success, and it will be a success. this is important, and not only to those who want to see the european union play an active role beyond its borders. i have stressed how much progress has been made recently – bringing hostilities to an end, strengthening the rule of law, implementing the framework agreement – and how important the role of the european union was in this effort. it would be a mistake, however, to become complacent and overlook just how much remains to be done to move not only macedonia but the whole region towards a point where a return to instability becomes inconceivable. let me now turn to the challenges of the present and of the near future. let me stress what efforts we – the elected representatives of macedonia – will undertake to meet those challenges, as well as express concrete ideas about what contribution the european union and its institutions can make to help us in these efforts. to secure the investment made – in particular by the european union – in the stability of the whole region, we must be bold and visionary. there are concrete steps which we must take that will require no less commitment than we have shown in the past two years. macedonian citizens are looking forward to the historic enlargement of the european union in 2004 and then in 2007. we must make sure that there are no fears arising that, following these enlargements, the western balkans could become isolated from developments in the rest of europe. there are three things that need to and must be done: we need to continue our efforts to strengthen the rule of law and combat organised crime and corruption. we need to refocus our attention to deal more effectively with issues of economic and social cohesion. and we need to work on realising the vision of a europe not just for states but also for citizens, enabling free movement of the citizens of the western balkans across the borders of the european union. there is today a clear consensus on the importance of strengthening the rule of law across the region. this is, above all, the responsibility of our governments. we need to strengthen our institutions, improve our legislation and work on our border management. recent months have seen substantial progress across the region. our states are not so weak that they cannot take on organised crime, and our citizens support our institutions when we do. there is much that the governments of the region can do, and there is much that is being done. the republic of macedonia is in the final stage of preparations to organise a regional conference on border security and management in ohrid to take this agenda further. the reality is that the effects of economic transition, the consequences of a decade of hostilities in the region, social dislocation, the creation of new borders and the formation of new and sometimes weak institutions combined create challenges that will take some time and a lot of effort to be met. the most important thing is our determination and the support of our citizens in meeting them. ensuring lasting stability is also linked to success in the field of economic development. in this respect, the governments and the people in the region have high hopes for the upcoming thessaloniki summit. as the point is shifting from post-conflict reconstruction to development, our citizens are increasingly focused on issues related to economic and social cohesion: high unemployment, decaying or absent infrastructure and the need to adapt skills to new economic realities. there is an obvious link between success in implementing the framework agreement, the success of the first eu military mission and a concrete prospect for economic development. unemployment, particularly among the young, is extremely high. economic reform will require further painful decisions which might raise it even higher. this makes the development of a vibrant private sector all the more important, not just for economic reasons, but also for social and security reasons. in the next few years the european commission will make a major effort to help the new candidate countries to catch up with the rest of the european union. it will also undertake a major effort to help bulgaria and romania, our eastern neighbours, to catch up with the new candidate countries. this builds on the astonishing success the european union has had in helping other emerging democracies – in our region, our southern neighbour greece – to catch up and develop a strong private sector driven economy. this is why we support so strongly the idea of the greek presidency to make pre-accession assistance available also to the countries of the western balkans. we are very much hoping that, at the thessaloniki summit, a european commitment to the western balkans might lead to the creation of a complement to cards, with instruments of structural policies offered for pre-accession, as has been discussed by some eu member states. we are aware that such assistance will impose many conditions on us, including the need to co-finance projects with our resources. however, such conditionality will help us to strengthen our administrations and prepare for a future in europe. we do not want to be treated as a humanitarian case but want to take ownership of processes of development in genuine partnership with the european union institutions. this brings me to the third issue which i wanted to raise today, and which is of great significance to the citizens of my country and the whole region. the idea and the reality of europe is the idea of mobility, of freedom of movement for goods and for people. there are potential advantages of a visa-free regime in relation to the democratisation process in general. a positive democratic and economic evolution will be nourished by simplified international exchange and travel possibilities for students, researchers and businessmen. the successful continuation of the reform process depends on a new generation of responsible citizens with international experience and knowledge. the republic of macedonia with its 2 million citizens borders the eu. it has strong trade links with the eu. until the break-up of yugoslavia our citizens travelled to all eu countries without restrictions and the republic of macedonia is not a country of transit. i have been following very carefully the debates in your parliament on the issue that has been imposed on us, related to the usage of the constitutional name, the republic of macedonia. coming from a country with a rich cultural tradition, which has always seen itself as having european values at its heart, i can only be inspired by the principles that are the very foundation of the european parliament and which are safeguarded by you, the parliamentarians. it will take much more effort and more time until the macedonian state will be able to become a full member of the union, although i am looking forward to the day when macedonian members will sit in this chamber. (applause)in this i am hoping also for your support. let us forge a strong joint partnership and work together to ensure that the european dream will come true also for the young people of the republic of macedonia who look forward to being proud citizens of europe in the 21st century. (applause)
mr president, i rise as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. we're very worried. yesterday we had three dead journalists from european news agencies. the total is now 10. there was an unprovoked attack on the press centre, the palestine hotel, and i thought perhaps an initiative should be taken by the bureau of our parliament towards the american and british authorities to respect the lives of journalists, and a position of yours, who i know how sensitive you are to these issues.
mr president, i would also like to invite you to make a statement, not just of condolence or regret, but of condemnation of the massacre of journalists who have been reporting on this unprecedented crime against the iraqi people and against all humanity. it has become clear, mr president, that both the strike on the palestine hotel, where the journalists accredited to baghdad were staying and which had been declared and secured in all directions as their place of residence, and the strike on the al jazeera and abu dhabi channels, which spread disinformation to the americans, were deliberate and premeditated targets of the americans. their goal is to stop any information about the crime that continues to be committed there. i would like to ask you, mr president, not only for your protest, but also for the demand on behalf of all of us that the criminal invaders leave iraq. that's enough! the crime against humanity cannot go any further.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee on foreign affairs for having appointed me as rapporteur for lithuania, which has enabled me to take part in this very interesting and important debate in parliament today. i would also like to thank mr gahler, who has just contributed to our reflection on lithuania. i was there, though. ladies and gentlemen, lithuania, one of the ten countries joining the european union, carries with it all the historical baggage that all of europe carries: culture, conflict, history. we all have decided from time to time to reverse this trend, to bring all the peoples of europe together on values, on principles. lithuania has its own problems. but today is not the day to discuss whether progress has been made in solving the kaliningrad or the signalina problem or anything else. we need to focus on the political stigma we all adopt. we all have considered that the europe we are building is a europe of values, culture, history, adventure, but also of future and hope. if we ask the people of europe today what they expect from us, the political expressions of europe's leadership, they will say: peace, democracy, development, social justice, freedom. it is precisely these values that we must respond to. lithuania, i repeat, has had its adventures. we've all been there. but today we are on a road of hope, a road of vision, a road which is expected to prove very interesting in the process. i would like to express my particular sensitivity as a greek today, because the historical name that concerns us all, that of europe, has greek origins and carries cultural and cultural elements. europa was a companion of jupiter. the mother of minos, sarpedon and radamantes. but if one looks at the historical development combined with its mythological side, one will find that it describes the cultural, economic and other contacts of the peoples and citizens of the central and eastern mediterranean basin in general. it's always had an element of civilization. it's always had the quality element. but, ladies and gentlemen, because of my own background, i am very happy that cyprus is joining lithuania and the other countries, and i would like to thank all the institutions of the european union, and in particular mr poos, who has done an excellent job in tackling such a serious issue and has given it the best possible outcome. cyprus, the island of aphrodite, or as the modern poet says the "golden green leaf thrown into the sea". the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we must leave what we have discussed at times with post-mortem and see that we delineate a new concept. we are all europe! neither new nor old! we are the europe that has built the best that the citizen has given to humanity! the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of europe, and it has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of europe. there are two important texts, the "epitaph of pericles" and the "oath of alexander the great". it would not be wrong to translate them, to translate them into all the languages, and the new languages, of the european union as texts of principles, values and culture. in closing, welcome to lithuania! welcome to cyprus! welcome to malta! welcome to all of you, including those who will be joining the european union tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, and those who will be joining in 2007, and all those who accept the principles and values that we all share.
in writing. - (el) i am voting against the brok report in the context of the gue/ngl group's resolution. not because i am against the accession of the new members, but because the resolution does not mention important issues relating to enlargement, such as the promotion of an elitist policy in the central and eastern european countries, which is crawling under the americans, the dismantling of the public sector and public property, the imposed liberalism which creates social discontent, the lack of important community resources to help these countries with the integration process and the lack of organisation of referendums on enlargement in the member states.
in writing. - (el) i voted against poland because i find its general position on the war with iraq unacceptable. i voted against the czech republic because i find its general position on the war with iraq and the question of the bénes decrees unacceptable.
in the case of the new member states, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the accession of the new member states is not delayed. it was clear during the accession boom (when public enterprises and their wealth were sold to large companies abroad, socialist achievements were undermined, sovereign rights and national independence were curtailed, etc.) that they have good reason for concern. only multinational companies and their representatives in the european parliament have cause for celebration. the 10 countries are joining a union of small and medium-sized imperialist states serving the interests of the big capitalist states, thereby exacerbating the exploitation of their populations and anyone they can get their hands on in both competition and cooperation with big brother and the acknowledged ruler: the united states. as the crime against iraq showed, the difference between certain euro-unionist imperialists and their american friends in the war is not in the ends but in the means. we also voted against the accession of cyprus, which, in addition to the above, has been used to exert pressure and legitimize the results of the barbaric invasion and occupation to which the 'sensitive' european imperialists are turning a deaf ear. the workers - the people - do not need imperialist organisations to shape their common struggle and will block the way to the ruin they are leading them towards by changing the course of humanity towards a dignified future, a socialist future.
in writing. - (el) i believe that the enlargement of the european union to include 10 more countries from our continent is a historic initiative, which - no matter how you look at it - was much needed after the collapse of the bipolar system in europe and the rest of the world. the deeper meaning was and still is that we hope to welcome the peoples of these countries into a well-formed unity, a society that unites the economies of its members and has proclaimed its desire to come closer and closer to political cooperation and union between the states, the nations and the citizens of europe. we have no historical, moral, political or strategic right to reject the freely and democratically expressed request of the 10 nations to participate on an equal footing in the building of this unity. on the contrary, it is in the interest of all of us to respond positively with initiative and solidarity. we expect these countries and their governments to express the same desire for convergence, in general and specifically, over and above the tedious and forced divergence recently seen in the plan to invade iraq, a divergence which soon proves to be meaningless and devoid of practical value for those who made the decision on it out of either naivety or selfishness. the enlargement process, as it has unfolded, clearly also has negative aspects and risks for both the acceding countries and the historic initiative behind european unification, since it has preceded the greater institutional and political unity that is necessary ... (the minutes were suspended in accordance with rule 137)
in writing. - (el) i am voting for the accession of cyprus. this is a pivotal moment in the history of cyprus. the years-long struggle of the greek members of parliament and many of their honourable friends has finally reached a successful conclusion. our distinguished friend and rapporteur, mr poos, has made an important contribution. i think it is good that in the end an unworkable american/british plan was not forced through. today a free cyprus and a member of the european union has the chance to negotiate a fair political solution to the cyprus question between the occupying forces, turkey and the local representative, mr denktash. a solution which the overwhelming majority of turkish and greek cypriots rightly hope for.
in writing. - (el) there are two reasons for my symbolic vote against poland's accession. one is the so-called ethnic declaration annexed to the accession treaties, which includes and legalises the attitude towards abortion. the second is the participation of polish soldiers in the war against iraq, in a show of submissive pro-americanism and extremely brazen anti-europeanism. i believe that i am defending the hopes and aspirations of the proud polish nation, which as an independent country is joining the european union, thus ending the period in which this great, historic country has been used as a satellite state, now by the united states and then by russia and germany.
- the next item is the report (a5-0111/03) by mr morillon on the new european security and defence structure - priorities and shortcomings.
madam president, i think that all members of the european parliament are over 18 years old, we have an average age of 40, 50 years, so i think we should not play with penny soldiers. i'm not a general to judge these things, i was a private, i didn't even become a non-commissioned officer, but as i speak i can't take my eyes off the picture on the front page of the guardian showing where these pre-emptive wars are leading. i cannot forget what i saw on television five minutes ago, namely a people who have not only been bombed for days but who have been driven to the extreme of indignity, plunder, stealing, and all of this is enjoyed by us on television! in these circumstances, are we here, in front of spectators, in front of journalists, in front of interpreters, going to talk about equipment and mechanisms instead of seeing where we are? can we ever accept paragraph 17, which says 'the pre-emptive character of military action' when it is a pre-emptive war that bush and blair have been waging in iraq? can we accept paragraph 9, which says that because of terrorism the concept of geographical boundaries in military action is obsolete? that there is confusion between foreign security policy and domestic security policy? what is this ? what is this ? we ourselves are opening the door wide to syria, to iran, to north korea and the day after to france, mr morillon. in this sense, the debate is useful. let's see where we are. not that we're bad at arguing. we have to say which side in the european union was right. the one that violated the principles of the un security council charter or the one that accepted and supported action in accordance with the un? let us look at this political foundation on which we will build a european union which will not be a caricature of the united states, but a pole of peace, diplomacy and calm action in the 21st century, which must not resemble anything of the 20th century.
madam president, the crisis in iraq has dramatically brought to the fore the crucial issue of the common foreign, defence and security policy in the european union. the morillon reports and mrs lalumière's earlier reports express the anxiety and the findings of parliament. but it also expresses his political affiliations. the recent presence of the european union in macedonia is a positive example. but the problem remains. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. and i ask you: where is the galileo application? where is the famous petersburg-type power and duties? where is the eurofighter? where is the programme for large and heavy transport aircraft, even though the latter two are not european union programmes? sometimes i wonder if we 're actually carrying water to the danaid pit . europe is a force for peace, but it must also become a force for security and international cooperation. the european union must be able to shape its own personality and act as an equal partner and partner. the european union must take its decisions at both the institutional and the substantive level. the initiative of the four countries, germany and others, is in principle positive. we wait. we have often mentioned ancient athens and rome here, but recently we have seen the various colourful kings and rulers of old, dissolved colonial empires parade in gold-plated chariots in the capitals of certain european countries. i do not know whether there is any resemblance to some european political leaders of divided europe, who deposit their credentials every now and then at camp david or the seat of the new rome. in conclusion, i would like to suggest that it should be considered, mr commissioner, mr minister, whether it would not be better, if only for symbolic reasons, that some of the serious political meetings should henceforth take place at the headquarters of the european union as a symbol of equality, of opportunity and of prospects.
madam president, after the overthrow of existing socialism and the dissolution of the soviet union, there is a race to share the new markets and the wealth of the former socialist countries, but also to redistribute the markets already shared. we have therefore intense competition both between the member states of the european union and with the united states. at the same time, a full-scale attack is being launched within the european union against the gains of the workers. the european defence and security policy, which is the subject of the morillon report, is being promoted to achieve these objectives. there are, of course, pretenses. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. the truth is that the euro-army is being created, with mercenaries modernly trained and equipped, with the mission of defending the interests of big business wherever it lands and where nato is reluctant to intervene. of course, as the morillon report makes clear, there is no question of severing the european union's relations with nato and the united states. the european union is not a military power, but a political one, and it is not a military power, but a political one. i read: it could not be otherwise, since, among other things, the majority of the european union member countries constitute the majority of nato members, which is however dominated and led by the usa. these ties alone would be enough to prove the true nature of the notorious u.s.s.r.'s mission. the people are certainly not deluded. they have bitter experience with nato and they already have handwritten examples of european union policy on security and defence. they still hear the slogans after 9/11, we are all americans. the european union's peoples have recently seen the new nato policy of pre-emptive strike adopted in prague. the european parliament has already said that it is not possible to give a definitive answer to the question of the future of the european union. they also know that proposals to increase armaments by increasing military spending may ensure a profitable future for european war industries, but they do not foreshadow anything positive either for their security, for the income of the peoples or for peace. and it is a shame that these proposals were made and are being made by the greek government, which shamelessly boasts that the war machine will be ready before the end of the greek presidency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the crime that is being committed in iraq at the moment gives us, after yugoslavia and afghanistan, a glimpse of what these policies are aiming at. madam president, our peoples demand a policy of diametrical opposites, a policy of peace, of peaceful coexistence between peoples, of resolving their differences without resort to violence and wars, a policy of disarmament and peace. and it is certain that they will enforce this policy, no matter how their opponents react.
council mr president, the council agrees with the importance which the honourable member attaches to the right of return of refugees and internally displaced persons, which he considers to be a fundamental human right. in accordance with article 49 of the treaty on european union, any european state which respects the principles set out in article 6 (1) may apply to become a member of the union. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union, but that we should be concerned about the future of the european union. the council recalls that since the feira european council the countries in the stabilisation and association process have been potential candidates for accession to the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this european perspective was recently confirmed at the copenhagen european council last december, which also recalled the criteria of the copenhagen european council of 1993, some of which are political and must be met in order for a country to join the european union. it is still too early to estimate possible dates for opening accession negotiations with the western balkan countries. the union's focus in the region remains on the stabilisation and association process. it is a long-term approach, the aim of which is to support reforms which are necessary and in line with the european union. the pace at which each country moves through the various stages of the process depends on its increasing capacity to assume the obligations arising from an ever closer association with the union and on compliance with the conditions laid down by the council in april 1997. the council reviews each country's progress each year and this is a tool for deciding on the future development of relations. the last examination at council level was carried out on 13 may 2002. the next review is scheduled for mid-2003 and will allow an assessment of the progress made by the various stabilisation and association countries since then. and i would say that the council decided on 22 july 2002 that the european union will also assess at the same time the progress made in the return of refugees and displaced persons. the union regularly discusses this issue, as appropriate, in its various contacts with the countries of the region. the union therefore has at this stage certain instruments at its disposal to enable it to accompany the implementation of the policies sought by the honourable member in his question.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and in this sense, the concept of refugee will no longer have any meaning between these countries, as of course between these countries and the 15 current members of the union. if this is the case, does it make sense that there are still refugees of greek origin in some of these countries, such as firom, and that they cannot enter greece? it is a sad legacy of the civil war. sad for all of us. but it ended 54 years ago. the demand for their right to free entry into greece is supported by a multitude of people of all political persuasions, as i have personally seen in meetings i have had in florina and elsewhere. is this a matter which is included in your general position? do you intend to settle this soon?
council mr president, i would point out to the honourable member that the council does not comment on individual cases concerning the exercise of powers which are vested in the member states with regard to the maintenance of law and order, and this is the council's usual practice.
mr president, no, i am not at all satisfied with the answer. it's not about law and order. they concern free movement. there is a persistent tendency on the part of the amsterdam airport authorities to apply a policy of pressure on those greeks who have not dyed their hair blonde and put on contact lenses so that they have blue eyes, to keep them in the forged passport section, etc., and to send them back. i have here a letter from the royal guard at schiphol, amsterdam airport, apologizing after two and a half months because they found two people on the same plane who had forged their passports. if the president of the commission contacts the greek provinces, he will see that this is being done systematically by the dutch authorities and i would ask for an intervention, as it concerns the free movement of persons within the european union.
in writing. - (el) we would like to stress once again that we are totally opposed to any attempt to legalise the use of genetically modified organisms. we believe that seeds should be entirely free of any trace of gmos. we stress that proposals such as those in the report setting maximum thresholds for contamination of seeds open the way to gradual and comprehensive legislation on gmos, which would have unforeseeable consequences for agriculture, the balance of the ecosystem and consumer health. if we accept today maximum contamination levels, even if they are low, then tomorrow we will be forced to raise them, and this will lead us into a vicious circle of adjustments which will eventually lead to the total dissemination of gmos. any deviation from the principle that seeds containing gmos should not be placed on the market will, in addition, cause genetic erosion of non-genetically modified species and varieties and have unforeseeable impacts on biodiversity. such proposals only respond to the demands of biotechnology companies, particularly us multinationals, and their intense pressure to secure their markets and profits by making farmers increasingly dependent on seeds which they alone produce and for which they alone hold the rights to sell, and the accompanying agrochemicals.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the people of guatemala, like all the peoples of latin america, have suffered the most tragic experience of foreign intervention by american imperialism and the savage exploitation of the local oligarchy. he was forced to take the path of armed struggle to defend his basic rights. the hard-fought struggle led to a process of pacification, and the government that came in committed itself to promoting certain reforms that would relieve the descendants of the maya and other local cultures. six years later, not only have these reforms not progressed, but poverty is still rife, particularly among the indigenous people, who make up the majority of the population. labour rights are trampled on, the remnants of feudalism are preserved, peasants are driven from the land they cultivate and their leaders are murdered by paramilitaries who go unpunished. we condemn the guatemalan government, the oligarchy and foreign intervention. we are in solidarity with the popular forces of the country and are confident that their struggle for democratic and social change will bear fruit.
in writing. the european parliament is concerned about human rights violations in cuba, while the invaders are slaughtering the people of iraq. the interpretation of human rights given by the european parliament and the european union is known in yugoslavia and elsewhere. it is calling on them to achieve political objectives, as is evident in the case of the resolution on cuba, which is aimed at discrediting the socialist system of that country, which has ensured its people the highest standard of living in latin america. the resolution is in line with the european union's 'common position', which makes political changes in the country's system a precondition for cooperation with cuba. at the same time, the european parliament is turning a blind eye to decades of us subversion and the criminal embargo. the cuban people are being denied the right to defend their revolution, while they are openly defending foreign agents and criminals. we condemn the hypocrisy of the european imperialists and their collaborators, but we understand their concern. because socialist cuba is a thorn in their side. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that is responsible for the protection of human rights in the european union.
mr president, one more resolution on egypt. do you think this time our voice will reach the ears of those in charge? because so far they've been flagrantly ignoring us. the retrial of 50 homosexual defendants on 15 march and the sentencing of 21 of them to even harsher sentences demonstrates in the most dramatic way that this country has absolutely no respect for fundamental freedoms, for human rights, for privacy. among the detainees is a greek citizen, kostas kastanias, who also faces serious health problems. unfortunately, the egyptian government refuses to allow his transfer to greece. finally, egypt does not respect either international conventions or agreements with the european union or even its own laws, which do not criminalize homosexuality. the question then arises: who rules egypt? is there a rule of law or is it run by a bunch of fanatical islamists? the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. are you going to do anything about these issues? how do you intend to use the power and influence of the european union to get egypt to respect fundamental rights and to release those unjustly detained immediately?
mr president, with regard to the question on postal services, i would like to say on behalf of the european people's party that we are opposed to the inclusion of this question on the agenda for the following reason: the regulation which the commission has undertaken to introduce, namely the separation of reserve and non-reserve activities in the same legal entity, concerns essentially one member state and is authorised in the two existing directives in relation to postal services. so there is no need for a legislative procedure. it is a matter of compliance by a single state with the existing postal regulations. the procedure which my colleagues criticise is, in our view, entirely legal. the question is therefore, in our view, superfluous.
mr president, i too would like to express my deep satisfaction at the fact that, as of today, we have observers from the new member states of the european union in the house. however, mr president, let me express, as chairman of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, my deep disappointment at the composition of these delegations from a gender perspective. there is an under-representation of women and, as you can see from the list you have circulated, there are two countries - estonia and slovenia - which do not include a single woman in their delegations. i think this is an insult to women, who are not represented in the delegations of the member states, and a disregard for the policy of gender equality which the european union has been promoting for 50 years. i hope that this will not happen in the next european elections and that the delegations will be gender balanced. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear indication of the extent to which the commission is prepared to take action in this area.
mr president, the multinational sisir has announced its decision to close its factory in athens immediately, throwing out 500 workers who for decades have been making huge profits working in inhumane conditions. he's doing this to move the factory to bulgaria or asia, to be more competitive and more productive. however, this plant increased its profits in 2002 by 83% compared to 2001 and received a generous subsidy from the greek government. the multinational's decision is in addition to similar decisions by other multinationals which have closed their production units in greece to relocate to countries with very low labour costs and, more generally, conditions of even more intensive exploitation of workers. such decisions and actions by big business are not only not hindered by the european union but are on the contrary encouraged and financed with national and community resources. it is a glaring proof that this policy of the european union, even if it is embellished with declarations of social sensitivity, has only one sacred and loyal purpose: to ensure the greatest possible profit for big capital and, of course, to achieve this by the intensive exploitation of workers. we condemn the european union's declared policy of economic and political penetration, which is causing the dismissal of thousands of workers in the member states of the european union and the over-exploitation of workers in the countries to which the companies are to be transferred.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr nicholson on his work as rapporteur. i think that the report is supported by a large majority of members of the european parliament and we should of course also thank mr ripoll for his work as an author of an opinion. it is clear that the directive before us is useful, especially after what happened after the terrorist attacks in the united states on 11 september 2001 and the disruption in the insurance market. i also think it is obvious that there should be full and substantial coverage for all categories, so that the citizens of the european union feel that the union is an organisation that cares about each and every one of them, that it is not narrow and short-sighted in some business interests but cares about compensating all those who are entitled to insurance coverage after air accidents. i believe that progress is being made with this particular proposal for a directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used in a proper manner and that the community's financial instruments are used in a proper manner. i think we should stay at these levels so that there is harmonisation between the european union and the other european countries which are not yet members of the union and there is a single regulation at a european level. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there was, as mr nicholson has mentioned, a concern, and i think there still is among some colleagues, about business impact assessment. the commissioner has made a report and i think her report was clear. i hope, commissioner, that your figures are accurate, so that there is not the impact mrs foster fears on business, and i want to make it clear in closing on behalf of our own group that we, as the european people's party, european democrats, will stick to the amendments adopted in the commission. we will not accept the other amendments because we believe that the text adopted by the committee on regional policy and transport is extremely balanced.
commission. – mr president, i wish to begin by welcoming our new colleagues from the new member states. it is a real pleasure to see them in the european parliament and i welcome them to the eu family. firstly, let me thank the rapporteur, mr manders, for his report concerning the commission's proposal on environmental liability. environmental liability is an important subject that has received well-deserved attention and caused intensive discussion for many years. the commission has been working on this issue for a long time, in close contact with the parties concerned and civil society. this process has re-emphasised the strategic importance of the underlying principles, whilst also pointing to a great diversity of opinions on the details of implementation. one is tempted to say that there are almost as many different views on the main issues as there are parties involved. i am thus well aware that this proposal is a complex and sensitive one. difficult choices had to be made on many of its aspects and the appropriate balance had to be found among competing interests. we believe that the commission succeeded in reaching this balance when it adopted the proposal in january 2002. it is with the aim of maintaining, if not further improving, this balance that it will consider the amendments adopted by parliament. let me briefly present to you the main features of the commission's proposal. the proposal aims to establish a community framework whereby environmental damage – which is defined in the proposal as biodiversity damage, water damage and land damage – would be prevented or remedied through a system of environmental liability. whenever possible the operator who has caused the environmental damage – or provoked an imminent threat of such damage occurring – must, in accordance with the polluter pays principle, bear the costs associated with the implementation of the necessary preventive or restorative measures. in certain cases, in which no operator can be held liable or a liable operator is unable to pay, member states must assume the responsibility for finding an alternative source of financing the measures in question. there are several key issues that deserve special attention. these issues certainly invite more detailed comments, but today i will be as concise as possible. firstly, the scope of the proposal in terms of the activities and biodiversity to be covered: in the commission's view, strict liability should apply to the activities listed in annex i to the proposal, and also to occupational activities other than those listed in annex i, it being understood that this second tier of liability is fault-based. the commission considers that suppressing this part of the liability regime is unacceptable since this would weaken the proposal. conversely, the commission does not believe it either justifiable or workable to expand strict liability to all occupational activities in the eu. having commented on the scope, let me just finish by saying that the debate on the amendments will be an extremely important one, during which i am sure we will hear some new arguments.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a draft directive which we have been waiting for for 20 years. the practical application of the polluter pays principle seems to be more complex than we thought. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in a way that is not harmful to the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. i am very pleased that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented in a way that is consistent with the principles of the treaty of rome. in particular, biodiversity as defined in the plan is limited to the habitats and species covered by the habitats and birds directives, i.e. only 13% of the territory of the european union. secondly, the definition of environmental damage must be broadened to include radiation, damage to air quality and damage to biodiversity from genetically modified organisms. thirdly, the areas of marine and nuclear pollution are not covered. we are told that there are international conventions. however, these usually cover traditional damage and not the concept of environmental damage. moreover, they have not been signed by several member states of the european union. and yet they contain clauses expressly prohibiting the introduction of provisions for extended environmental liability. the directive must therefore be clear and explicit about the current liability regime and also provide for the possibility of amending these international treaties, and we should await the commission's proposals in this respect. in addition, exemptions from environmental liability are provided for emissions or activities which have been authorised or which were not considered harmful at the time of authorisation. it's called "permit and state of the art defences". i believe that these exceptions undermine the soundness of the objectives of the directive, limit the scope of the liability regime, undermine the 'polluter pays' principle. there is a study carried out by the commission itself, commissioner, which shows that 10 out of the 15 member states of the union do not provide for such exemptions. the new directive cannot therefore lead many member states to relax the strictness of their environmental legislation. the proposal for a directive establishes a public law regime under which the competent authority is responsible for the definition and implementation of appropriate preventive or remedial measures. but this should not mean that the burden falls on the taxpayer. because there's a danger of us ending up there. the primary responsibility for prevention and rehabilitation should therefore lie with the operator. the competent public authority must follow the procedure for finding and recovering the damage. there is also the issue of indirect and only indirect access to justice for citizens. the directive does not provide for the possibility of citizens having recourse directly to the courts. and i think that is where the aarhus treaty is being violated. i also believe that there should be a compulsory system of insurance for operators with common rules on financial guarantees. if that is the case, then competition will not be distorted. on the contrary, if it is not there, it may be distorted, and the prevention system will not be strong, and i think there will not be the beneficial effects on the economy that we would expect. the committee on the environment, which i have the honour of chairing, has adopted an opinion in the spirit of these observations. we are now submitting to the house, together with many other colleagues from many political groups, a series of proposals with less ambition but which are more conciliatory. we are trying to get closer to the council's positions so that we can see the greek presidency reaching a political agreement at the environment council on 13 june. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the ecosystem and the flow of matter and energy have predictable, describable paths. human activity must adapt to them. we don't protect nature just by putting a fence around it. to protect the viability of europe, we need a green turn in industry and the whole economy. we cannot say that we are not for one or the other. i hope that the results of our vote will send a clear political message throughout europe: that we are determined to develop a genuine policy to ensure better protection of the environment, compatible with the social and economic objectives of the union. our vote is not going to make any immediate change. if we vote for the amendments which we have the honour to table, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we can open a new path which will eventually establish a model of sustainability and responsibility in europe and beyond.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very ambitious one, and it aims to minimise environmental damage both by means of preventive measures and by allocating the cost of repairing the damage. the amendments we support are the necessary compromises not only to avoid the adoption of the directive but also to make the whole protection system sustainable and to avoid market distortions. i congratulate mr manders and mr papayannakis on having been able to make the necessary compromises. the implementation of the 'polluter pays' principle is of fundamental importance. it is a question of the need to develop the european union's policy on the environment, and it is a question of the need to develop the european union's policy on the environment. the compulsory provision of financial guarantees to make good environmental damage is a conditio sine qua non for the effective protection of the environment. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. however, the introduction of compulsory insurance must be gradual in cooperation with the parties concerned. it should be borne in mind that insurance companies need some time to prepare. in any event, the phases of introduction of the compulsory insurance scheme must be defined in the text of the directive, with corresponding specification of the type of damage to be covered and the activities to be covered. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the use of the land is not affected by the pollution caused by the use of the land. otherwise the final financial burden will be shifted to the taxpayer. the pursuit of activities for which a licence exists and which are not considered harmful at the time of their pursuit should not exclude the operator's liability, but the existence of a licence or the failure to detect in time the harmful effects of the activity in question could act as mitigating circumstances when the costs of restoring the ecological damage are charged to the operator, provided that the latter has fully complied with the conditions imposed by the applicable legislation or its licence in the course of its activity. the criteria for the differentiation of the compensation coverage, which indirectly indicate the size of the undertaking which ensures that the viability of small undertakings is not jeopardised, are accepted. the above also shows that, in order to protect the environment effectively and to prevent ecological disasters, the activities falling within the scope of the directive should be reviewed periodically taking into account the latest scientific findings and the experience gained in the meantime.
in writing. - (el) the policy of restructuring the shipbuilding industry and the cuts it has suffered have led to the unemployment of tens of thousands of workers. the eu's loss of half its share of the world market in just two years is due to the position taken by the eu and the member states, which, instead of strengthening and upgrading this strategic sector, strengthen and multiply the profits of monopoly companies, mainly in germany and denmark. this once thriving sector has been particularly affected in greece, a country with a long maritime tradition and one of the largest fleets in the world. a different policy would have allowed the ship repair industry to become an important branch of the economy rather than disappear. today, small businesses are oppressed, while the larger shipyards have been privatized for a living, and their activity has decreased. thousands of workers in this sector are literally starving to death and an unemployment rate of over 80% is condemning entire regions to decline. just recently, a shipbuilding company specializing in wood, ippokambos, closed its doors, putting 300 more workers on the street. workers in this sector are increasingly aware that they cannot expect solutions from the eu, its policies and the proposed international imperialist agreements, so they are coming together and fighting for another anti-monopoly and anti-imperialist policy.
council mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure to be with you today to present the results of the council's work on severe acute respiratory syndrome to date. as you know, the presidency convened an emergency council meeting on 6 may to discuss this serious matter which, in addition to the obvious and significant effects on public health and the economy, raises legitimate concerns among citizens, often exacerbated by the way in which the matter is presented in the media. before i tell you the results of the council, let me make a preliminary comment. the case of severe acute respiratory syndrome shows once again that infectious diseases, like many other problems affecting public health, i mention bioterrorism as another example, go far beyond the level of the member states and constitute the need for institutional changes that will make health protection a key priority of a united europe. this perspective will further facilitate coordination on prevention, control and early intervention to combat diseases, both in the community and internationally. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am convinced, mr president, that europe is the best way to promote in each of our countries ambitious public health policies, particularly in the field of disease prevention and control. in today's europe, and particularly in the enlargement europe, health must gain a firm and strong legal basis, allowing for immediate, coordinated, scientifically sound and effective interventions. i would now like to inform you of the results of the work of the extraordinary council. i would remind you that the council meeting on 6 may brought together for the first time the ministers for health of the acceding countries, as well as mrs brundtland, director-general of the who, to inform us of the current developments in the world in the field of atypical pneumonia. as for the scientific epidemiological aspect of the problem, according to the experts of the international organizations, we know in brief that the cause of the syndrome is an unrecognized until the recent appearance of the virus belonging to the category of coronaviruses. its molecular identification was accomplished in a very short time, considering how long it took to identify the hiv virus of aids. despite its identification, we still don't know its exact natural history, as we still don't have specific antiviral drugs to treat it, nor are we anywhere near a vaccine to prevent it. as for the mode of transmission, there is strong evidence that it is transmitted by close contact, most likely via droplets. there is no evidence that the goods arriving in the european union from the virus-infected areas pose a risk to public health. in terms of epidemiology, confirmed or suspected cases in european union countries are limited and patients have been effectively isolated and treated. so far, the further spread of infection has been prevented and, most importantly, we have no fatal cases. the council held a full and constructive exchange of views with mrs brundtland and noted that the world health assembly next week would be an excellent opportunity to reassess the world situation and assess efforts to deal with it. as regards the community's measures to deal with the problem, i would first of all point out that the implementation of health protection measures is a matter for the authorities of the member states. a network for the epidemiological surveillance and control of communicable diseases is already in operation at community level and is responsible for coordinating the measures. the network proved to be an effective means of exchanging information, in which the acceding countries also participated fully. the council endorsed the guidelines agreed on 10 april 2003 by the monitoring network committee, which i summarise as follows: - rapid detection of all suspected cases through good surveillance, - protection of persons at risk of infection through effective isolation in hospitals, with particular emphasis on taking measures to protect nursing staff, - special focus of measures on air travel, which appears to be a major contributor to the spread of the syndrome, mainly through standardised screening of passengers departing from affected areas, through advice provided to passengers on board aircraft and, finally, through information at arrival airports. these measures must be applied in all member states. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. the council decided that community action and efforts through the communicable disease monitoring network and the new programme in the field of public health should be continued. cooperation between the member states, the commission and the world health organization should also be continued in order to prevent and eventually eradicate this atypical pneumonia. this cooperation should be directed mainly to providing assistance to the affected areas and to developing diagnostic tests to promote research for the manufacture and supply of vaccines in sufficient quantities. the council also urged the member states and the acceding countries to implement fully all the guidelines of the monitoring network, to contribute actively to the establishment of a special group of experts on severe acute respiratory syndrome under the monitoring network committee and to provide the commission with all information by 15 may on the measures taken to combat the syndrome. finally, i would like to note that we have asked the commission to continue coordinating the actions of the member states and to review the guidelines for the monitoring network on a regular basis. the council will review the situation and developments at its meeting on 2 june, at which time the commission will report on the measures taken by the member states. on the basis of this report, the council will take further action if deemed necessary. it also supports the commission's intention to present the first draft proposal for the establishment of a european centre for disease prevention and control. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have confined myself to this summary of the council's work and i am at your disposal to answer your questions.
mr president, today's second debate on severe acute respiratory syndrome is extremely timely, i would say, once again, because we see that we have new cases and people dying from this syndrome every day. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. he mentioned some of these immediate measures, but the main thing is what are the next steps to tackle these diseases, which have significant social and economic implications, and this is because with the mobility that we see today millions of people traveling to all parts of the world and there has been a huge potential for infectious diseases. a typical example is sars, whose cases have spread from china, where it originated, to places far away from its original source. the second important issue is that we have sudden outbreaks of new diseases. in the last 20 years, 30 new infectious diseases or mutations of old ones have been reported. we still have old diseases that are coming back, like tuberculosis. there's talk of a pandemic coming, an outbreak of the flu. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's health policy. the minister rightly pointed out that there is this network, which we established by resolution 2119 of 1998, for the monitoring of infectious diseases, but unfortunately, mr minister, this network is not sufficient for the organized and coordinated response to these threats to health. i agree with you that you should press for the establishment, as proposed by the commission, of a monitoring centre, such as exists in the united states, which should exist at european union level and coordinate the various national centres, because of course it is the responsibility of the member states, but it will also coordinate reference laboratories, so that we can have a rapid, coordinated response to the problems of infectious diseases and even bioterrorism such as threats from viruses or bacterial spores. you were also quite right to say that public health should be given its proper place in the new treaties of europe. i regret to say that so far the constituent assembly has not given us that message and that position. you're right about that. the environment has a prominent place in the treaties, and so must public health. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take action to combat it. to do that, we must have public health at the forefront of the treaty on european union. i would therefore agree with you and ask you to press the other ministers to accept the establishment of this centre for the transmission and control of infectious diseases at european level and to press the constituent assembly and the council to give public health a prominent place in the new constitution of europe.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, severe acute respiratory syndrome is another reminder of the need for concerted action in the field of public health. we cannot talk about prevention, control and early intervention in infectious or other diseases unless we secure the conditions for community cooperation, especially today with enlargement and the easy and rapid movement of citizens. i am glad that all the speakers have referred to this need in their speeches in a unanimous way, which has not happened in the past. like environmental problems, communicable diseases know no borders. epidemics such as this one require transparency and prompt information, effective surveillance, health systems that overcome bureaucratic dysfunctions and offer the best possible service in the public interest. the role of the world health organisation is essential, and therefore the cooperation between who, the european commission and the member states has been effective. it is important to emphasize that the measures taken at european union level have limited the spread of the disease and, more importantly, we have not had a fatal outbreak in any member state to date. in connection with the extraordinary council held last week, i consider important the council's call for the establishment of the special group of experts on the syndrome, with the aim of drawing up common programmes and advice on health measures throughout europe and providing information on the measures taken to date and their results. it is also essential to provide all possible assistance to the affected areas. exit points must be checked as much as, if not more than, entry points, by all administrative and scientific means. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission should therefore exert as much influence as possible in this direction. the european council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in copenhagen.
mr president, these are oral questions. we have time, 10 minutes left. the first question is mine. these are not second-rate questions, nor is there any such practice. it is simply that we usually do not have time, and in that sense i should like to put my question, to have the commission's answer and to make a secondary point in the light of the opportunity afforded to me by the rules of procedure.
i shall not insist, mr president, although i think that for reasons of principle this section of the questions is also involved if there is time, and i shall not insist because i know that you always show a certain flexibility in matters concerning questions and members. i have a question, however: the very title of the question refers to a budgetary matter. why did he not join the questions to commissioner schreyer and enter the third section? i would like to say, however, that i do not insist on it in general.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i would like to make the following statement on behalf of the commission: the commission is very concerned about the recent search of the human rights association offices in ankara by the turkish authorities, which resulted in the seizure of documents and other material. the persecution of such associations is difficult to understand, given that the recent political reforms have extended the fundamental rights of freedom of expression and association. similar cases have been reported by the commission in its regular reports. the commission considers that these incidents are contrary to the objectives of the current reform efforts. this shows once again the wide gap between the political reforms on the one hand and the attitude of the executive and judicial authorities on the other in their implementation. in this context, i would like to emphasise that the implementation of reforms will be a determining factor in assessing the fulfilment of the copenhagen political criteria. i shall raise this point in my talks with turkish foreign minister abdullah gül in brussels on thursday this week. the turkish minister of justice, according to information i have received, has in the meantime publicly expressed regret at the action taken by the turkish authorities at the offices of the human rights association. the turkish minister of justice also acknowledged the importance of the full implementation of the political reforms. he also made it clear that such incidents must not happen again in the future. i would like to point out that the commission is actively supporting the human rights association in turkey. the amount of funding allocated for this purpose between 1992 and 1999 was eur 309 000. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. the commission has just recently presented a revised communication on an improved accession strategy for turkey on 25 march. i can only emphasize once again that the full and unrestricted implementation of all the legislative reforms into the practice of daily life in turkey is of the utmost importance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. human rights organisations must be able to work without hindrance and the commission will continue to support them in their work. thank you. thank you.
mr president, commissioner, once again the european parliament is called upon to deal with the most problematic country of all those linked to the european union by a special relationship, which in the case of turkey goes as far as the status of candidate member. this time, unprecedented even for turkish measures and standards, it is a case of uncompromising disregard for the fundamental rules of the rule of law and democratic governance, and this under the supervision of a senior judicial official, who has solemnly confirmed a current turkish practice and reality in which turkey systematically and flagrantly violates even the most elementary obligations it is supposed to have undertaken to justify and support its application for membership of the european union. the raid by the counter-terrorism police units on the offices of the turkish association for human rights in ankara adds another black mark to the sadly long list of turkish repressions of political, religious and minority human rights and freedoms in turkey and comes to repudiate the shameless promises and assurances of all the respective turkish governments to take and implement the necessary institutional and other measures to comply with the copenhagen criteria. these declarations were greeted with great optimism by many, who now see with similar disappointment that by treating the turkish system with understanding and tolerance, they achieve the exact opposite result, in effect encouraging and empowering those in turkey who oppose the country's adjustment to recognized moral values of internal legal order and international conduct. the european union and in particular the european parliament, as the elected representative body of its peoples, must therefore condemn in the strongest terms and unreservedly this new unacceptable incident and the generally negative attitude of turkey towards human rights and international law, making it absolutely clear to the turkish government that under these circumstances any thought of turkey being accepted into the european family is out of the question, as mr oostlander's excellent report rightly points out.
mr president, the raid on the offices of the union for the defence of human rights in turkey is not the first attack on this organization, which has been and is leading the fight against the oppression of the turkish people, turks and kurds, and of national minorities. we've had repeated attacks like this and more savage ones in the past. i would like to mention, among other things, the armed attack with repeated shots against the former president of the union, akin birdal. and this attack was condemned by the then minister of justice, but in the end the victim was put in prison for a few years. let's see what the convictions of today's ministers mean! the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. we have no doubt that the islamist government on its own ideological basis was not and cannot lead turkey to democracy. it was forced to make a change in view of the thirst and the struggle of the turkish people, but in no way did it change its ideological political orientation. there is no doubt that the main reason for this offensive is the union's unwavering heroic struggle for human rights in turkey and for the rights of the kurdish people. neither the military establishment, which has always directed turkish political life, nor the islamic party have any sympathy for such blunders. the raid was carried out under articles 169 and 312 of the criminal code and the anti-terrorism law respectively, which criminalize as terrorist any support for the hunger strike of political prisoners and their struggle against the white cells. in the same spirit, it was decided to ban the communist party of turkey and the dehap party. we express our fraternal solidarity with the turkish people and support their struggle for democracy and peace, as they have recently shown against the attack on iraq.
mr president, more than 10 years after the commission's attempt to create the appropriate legislative framework to regulate the issue of the statute of the european cooperative society, the council is today showing the political will to move forward and to close the issue. however, although this time he seems to be interpreting the commission's proposal for a regulation correctly, the legal basis he has chosen raises enormous problems. in fact, as other colleagues have said, it is reducing the role of the european parliament by choosing article 308, the simple consultation procedure. the same approach was followed when adopting the relevant regulation of the european company directive. the argument put forward by the legal affairs committee in favour of article 95 is correct, as is the way in which the european parliament's relations with the council will develop in the future. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i would ask the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council does not take a decision on the matter. but it is not right that the discussion at this stage should delay or cancel the establishment of the cooperative. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the proposal for a regulation on the european cooperative society, and the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the adoption of the regulation and the directive on the statute for the european cooperative society. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. cooperative organisations will have a strong legal tool to facilitate the establishment and operation of cooperative societies across borders. as with the european public limited company, in order to be consistent, we must ensure the same conditions for workers, safeguard their rights and promote the construction of the european social model. i would say that in this case it is even more so than the european public limited company. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. in particular, the directive should take account of the three points raised by mr de rossa in his report. first, the right to negotiate for the participation of employees cannot be limited to the period during which the company is created. this must also be ensured at other critical stages of the company's operation, such as mergers, transfers, etc. for the same reason, the whole process of employee participation should not be a one-off right, but should be redefined in the event of substantial structural changes in the european cooperative society by renegotiation. it is also rightly proposed that, as in the case of the european company, national law should take precedence over national law in the election of employees' representatives to the supervisory or administrative bodies. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal. we must daily test and prove that we believe in it.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. the military conflict in iraq has hit the travel and tourism industry hard. in addition, sars has led to new uncertainties. however, the negative impact on tourism in general should not be overestimated. we can rightly hope that tourism will recover in most european destinations. tourism is one of the largest industries in the european union, with a direct contribution to gdp and employment of about 5%, and an indirect contribution of about 12%. in its communication 'working together for the future of tourism in europe' of 13 november 2001, the commission proposed a framework for action and measures to boost the european tourism industry. the commission is committed to close cooperation between all public and private stakeholders in this context. the commission's legislative and work programme for 2003 provides for a new communication to further implement parts of the 2001 communication, specifically with regard to the issue of the sustainability of european tourism. this will be a concrete initiative for coordinated action by all the parties concerned to revitalise the european tourism industry. if the member states and the tourism industry agree that the commission should take the initiative for further coordinated action to help european tourism recover from severe negative impacts on the sector, the commission would be prepared to do so within the framework of the community competences defined in the treaty. the community's powers are defined in the convention: the convention works largely with a view to legal continuity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. in its 2003 legislative programme, the commission has identified over 40 legislative proposals that can be expected to have an impact on the tourism sector, 24 of which are more or less significant. this applies both to proposals which are in line with the political priorities for 2003 and to other legislative proposals likely to be tabled in 2003. they cover a wide range of policy areas, the most frequent being transport, with 40% of all proposals and half of the most important proposals, followed by taxation issues with 5 proposals. it is to be hoped that these initiatives of the commission will find the support of this house.
mr president, commissioner, there is no doubt that tourism in europe is going through a major crisis, particularly in recent times, and this is because of the crisis in iraq. i think that this problem should be tackled at european level. we would expect more substantial steps in this direction, but of course the main problem is the lack of a legal basis in the treaty. and that's where i want to focus my own placement. i know that at times, and commissioner liikanen does all that he can and is allowed to do under the current legislative framework, but there are initiatives that affect the tourism sector but cannot be integrated into a coherent logic and, at the same time, the paradox occurs that while we have a policy for industry, we do not have a policy for the most important part of industry, or at any rate, a part that is becoming increasingly important, and that is tourism. it is also paradoxical, i think, that there are policies for various individual issues such as fisheries, and there are, but that the tourism sector is ignored, which employs a great many workers and as the years go by this number is increasing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's not! we are talking about added value at the brussels level. we are talking about coordinating action, we are talking about imitating what is actually happening in other sectors, and i have mentioned the example of industry. the constituent assembly is an important opportunity which must not be missed. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in the position of the council to take a decision on the matter. if you look at the positions of parliament from time to time, your answer is probably neutral. the commission's commitment to the convention is expected to be stronger. there are members of the assembly who are dealing with this. our colleague, mr lamassoure, has tabled an amendment so that tourism becomes a complementary competence of the european union and we expect the european commission to take substantial steps and to make a strong commitment on this issue, because the assembly cannot and must not be left unused. it is an opportunity to start a new path for tourism at european level.
mr president, i have been covered by the speech of our group chairman. let me write this down: firstly, disgust, condemnation of what happened yesterday in saudi arabia - yes, but let us remember how commissioner patten concluded his speech when the war began: 'the situation and developments in iraq will exacerbate the problem of terrorism' and now we are reaping the fruits of the actions of the united states and great britain and of this silence of the european union. secondly, i am sorry about the european parliament. we are living through one of the darkest moments of the european parliament. what will we tell the people in a year's time at the european elections? what did we do during the war? we haven't made any decisions, no resolutions. what did we do after the war? when we have cholera, when we have dozens of dead, when we have the looting of the baghdad museum, when we have the looting of nuclear facilities, we do not make a decision, we do not make a resolution, because those who cover the war do not want the european parliament to make a resolution and to stand before the european public. thirdly, a request to the president: the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. they are occupying forces. we must call them that, because the european union must not cover up the facts.
mr president, in a moment i would like to telegraph the following: it is a shame that there will be no resolution today, obviously because the majority does not want to condemn the unprovoked illegal attack by the united states and great britain. this was also reflected in the speeches of most of the people today. the commissioner and the presidency, while condemning the terrorist attack in riyadh, did not find a single word of condemnation of the terrorist, predatory, criminal attack by the united states and great britain. shame on you! the european union has been the victim of a brutal attack by the military and the police, and it is not the case that the european union has been the victim of a brutal attack by the military and the police. shame on you! neither side has opposed the us position of pre-emptive strike leaving the way open for a repeat of the crime. the european union is not the only one to have a problem with the european union. once again, shame on you, mr president! we must condemn this crime in the strongest terms. we must demand the immediate withdrawal of the invaders from iraq, and that the invaders pay the cost of repairing the damage they have caused! the attackers and their iraqi collaborators should be tried as war criminals. the un should at least decide now to impose strict sanctions on the attackers and to supervise the payment of compensation! let the iraqi people finally be free to take their destiny into their own hands without conquerors! the iraqi people united will organize and develop their national resistance. only by defeating the invaders will he bring peace and order. we owe him our solidarity.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, strange as it may sound, i do not think it appropriate to take advantage of the three minutes which i have been given to bother you by repeating what has been said in this chamber in recent months about the tragedy in iraq. i shall therefore confine myself to one question which i believe should be the first priority of the european parliament, the elected representative body of the peoples of europe, to whom we are accountable for our decisions and decisions, and who are interested in and entitled to at least an answer to the pretexts which the leadership of the warring coalition has primarily used to justify its actions and to convince or deceive international and especially european public opinion. what, in other words, has been the concrete result of the invasion of iraq and the triumphant military victory over the regime of saddam hussein in terms of the detection and destruction of iraq's prohibited weapons of mass destruction, the establishment of a democratic and representative iraqi government and the dismantling of international terrorism, and in particular al qaeda?
mr president, today's interesting debate has allowed us to see some interesting things. the first interesting point is - and i think it is a positive one - the revision of the positions expressed by the leader of the people's party, mr poettering. the second interesting point is that some have created a climate in which we should thank mr rumsfeld for overthrowing saddam, his old friend, because that seems to mean a genuine reconsideration. the third element is the effort and the positions to protect iraq's cultural heritage; i hope that in a few years' time there will be no one who will say that when stolen objects are found in various museums, such as the acropolis marble in the british museum, that they are better protected than the countries from which these antiquities or cultural monuments originate. in any case, we are faced today with political facts. the only body that can solve the problem and restore international relations where they need to be restored is the united nations. in these circumstances, the european union and its members, who are also members of the security council, must contribute to this, and it is not a positive thing that the new resolution under discussion has been tabled again jointly by some members of the european union and members of the security council. i hope that experience, problems will lead us to more positive thinking, to lead the leadership of europe to a more positive perspective. but there must be certain principles. what are they ? the middle east, the wider region, for many years now, if we want to look at history, has been oppressed by various regimes, substitutes for another, bad era, a colonial era. if certain powers continue to try to give answers in the region with their respective variants, whether sultans or maharajahs or emirs or political prime ministers, europe must not allow this. we 25 here came with notions of democracy, freedom and rights. we have not come with the intention of reproducing nineteenth-century data in new forms and new compromises.
mr president, i too would like to express my deep disappointment at the fact that we have shown our inability to agree on a joint resolution of the european parliament, despite the fact that today's debate shows that there is a common ground, that there are the building blocks for a common european identity. an identity that can advance politics, reason and culture against the violence and social and cultural barbarism promoted by the new us military doctrine. the european union has a duty and an obligation to study in depth the new international situation created by american expansionism and the unreliability of the neoconservative american leadership. we must demand answers to the remaining open questions: first, about the flagrant violation of international law by an aggressive war; second, about the attempt to deceive public opinion about alleged weapons of mass destruction which proved to be the lie of the century; third, about the barbarity of the looting of cultural treasures, and i hope no museum will dare to host the looting; fourth, about the annihilation of hundreds of civilians, the destruction of infrastructure, the bombing of television stations and the murder of journalists; and fifth and last but not least, about the war propaganda that has been spread by the united nations against the united states. of course, the collapse of saddam hussein's dictatorial regime cannot serve as a siloam for the americans and their allies. finally, i would like to stress that the worthy women of iraq can make a decisive contribution to ending the chaos in post-war iraq, to the reconstruction of the country and to future democratic governance. the presidency and the commission should demand immediate implementation of the unanimous un resolution 1325 calling for increased participation and representation of women in all decision-making centres at all levels. finally, we hope that on 21 june the european union will exert its influence so that decisions are taken to implement the road map, so that a just solution can finally be found in the middle east and a climate of trust can be restored with the arab world.
in writing. - (el) this directive on an environmental liability system is based on the basic principle of the polluter-pays principle. this principle has proved effective in requiring those responsible to make good environmental damage, but it has also proved detrimental in weakening effective prevention and has proved to be the most cynical alibi for increasing the tax burden on 'polluted citizens' - polluters (large companies) no longer paying for the disasters they cause (erika, prestige, sevezo etc.) and further reinforced by incentives and tax breaks. environmental damage is reduced to blatant hypocrisy, in that the 'financial guarantees' on the operator are shifted to the state and the workers either by increasing the operating costs or by passing them on to the price of the products. given the exemptions and its limited scope, this directive is reduced to a 'vine leaf' hiding the interests of monopolies, insofar as it does not include the overall protection of biodiversity, pollution by hydrocarbons, nuclear damage, non-ionizing radiation, gmos, etc. and it exempts from all responsibility, in a provocative way, those who cause enormous environmental disasters by carrying out barbaric and unprovoked military interventions. the limited definitions of damage, liability and other basic concepts, with their exceptions and curious "presumptions of non-liability", lead us to adopt a particularly cautious and critical attitude towards this "environmental liability".
- mrs mckenna, i am taking note of your remarks and i am forwarding them to the european commission so that, since you are quoting commissioners, the commission can provide you with the answers to your questions.
- the agenda calls for the council statement on the eu/us extradition agreement and the international criminal court. i give the floor to mr petsalnikos, greek minister for justice and representative of the council.
mr president, as you can understand, both the case of the european detainees in guantanamo and the conditions they are facing and the case of the transfer of classified data to the united states concerning air passengers make us distrust and worry about the agreement and about the position the european union will take. and there are three points. i would like to mention the first one. in relation to the issue of the death penalty, the community bulletin europe had earlier article 13, which says that if the party in which the death penalty is applied asks the other party, which does not apply it, for extradition, then the other party, namely the european union, may make it a condition not to apply or impose the death penalty and this article ends:
council mr president, i have listened and noted with particular attention the views, comments and remarks of members of the european parliament expressing specific and justified concerns. i shall try to answer those concerns. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. it may be superfluous to say this, but i have to remind you that the contracts under negotiation are based on articles 24 and 38 of the treaty on european union, which unfortunately do not provide for any role for the european parliament. on the contrary, it provides indirectly, but clearly, for a reference to internal constitutional procedures. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. as regards the remarks made about the international criminal court, i would like to reiterate and emphasize that the draft extradition agreement expressly provides in an explanatory note, as i said, that the obligation to extradite to the united states of america does not affect the obligation to extradite to the international criminal court. the right of each member state to fulfil its obligations towards the international criminal court is therefore, i would say, explicitly guaranteed. now, as to the sequence of extradition requests in relation to the european arrest warrant. the draft extradition agreement leaves each member state free to choose to which country to extradite a person. i would remind you that when we discussed and agreed on the european arrest warrant within the european union, the idea that the arrest warrant issued by one member state should precede any extradition request to any other third country was not accepted. but even if we decide in our own internal procedures in the future to give such priority to the european arrest warrant, the draft agreement contains a specific provision which facilitates us in such a decision. in particular, it recognises that future developments in the european union may have an impact on the application of the agreement and provides for a review of the agreement in the light of these developments. i would like to reiterate that, in the draft extradition agreement, each member state has the option of deciding to which country it will extradite the person sought. now, as regards the relations between the european union and the united states and the bilateral treaties between the member states and the united states of america, i will repeat what i said in my first speech, namely that the european union and the united states do not abolish individual bilateral treaties between the member states and the united states. the agreements between the european union and the united states will add value. that's the point. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and that the community's financial interests are protected. the question is precisely, and this has been our endeavour throughout the negotiations, and this is our endeavour until the conclusion of the consultations and negotiations with the united states, that there be the necessary guarantees for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, which will respect the constitutional principles of the member states. i think it is a success that the references to constitutional principles, public security, etc., which have been included in both draft agreements, are now explicit. and, of course, member states who wish to can in future further strengthen this treaty framework with the united states by concluding bilateral treaties if they wish, going a step further, provided they are compatible, to add even more value to the agreements between the european union and the united states under discussion. as regards the specialised courts, both the extradition agreement and the mutual legal assistance agreement, the draft agreements, expressly provide that member states will be able to continue to invoke their grounds for refusal as already agreed in the existing bilateral treaties with the united states. furthermore, the draft extradition agreement explicitly recognizes that constitutional principles can impede extradition. the agreement therefore provides for a specific consultation mechanism. in the preamble to both draft agreements, there is an explicit reference to the principle of a fair trial, including a trial by an impartial and regular court, and to the issue of special courts, which is not in line with the legal culture of europe and is a subject which we raise in every meeting and every conversation with the representatives of the united states. as regards the death penalty, and here i must make a reference in relation to the death penalty and the judicial cooperation plan because it is perhaps more evident in the extradition plan, i would like to note that, under article 13 of the draft mutual assistance agreement, member states have the possibility of refusing a request for assistance from the united states of america if they consider that the execution of the request could harm their sovereignty, security, public order or other essential interests. the wording we have managed to include, and which was one of the objectives pursued by the european union, ensures that member states can refuse assistance if they consider that the evidence, the evidence, etc. required may lead to the imposition of the death penalty. in accordance with article 9 (2), a member state may also impose additional conditions on the united states of america regarding the further use of evidence, e.g. not to use it in prosecutions leading to the imposition of the death penalty. i shall continue on the death penalty, based on the remarks made by mr alavanos. the arrangement in the draft agreement with the united states of america is designed precisely to add more value to the existing bilateral agreements between member states and the united states of america, which do not contain sufficient guarantees. there are also cases where the existing contracts do not contain sufficient guarantees. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. if a bilateral treaty is more advanced, this acquis is not affected, but on the basis of what we have included in the plan, we go much further, ensuring and guaranteeing the non-imposition, the non-execution of the death penalty in relation to a number of bilateral treaties that do not have these guarantees. the wording 'may refuse extradition' does not mean that the member states will ignore their constitutional principles, which they will explicitly invoke in their entirety. i should of course like to remind you that all the member states have signed and ratified the echr protocol banning the death penalty. i would like to conclude, mr president, by thanking you again for the opportunity to inform and listen to us today, and to assure you once again that before the completion of all the procedures we shall listen very carefully to the views of the european parliament.
- thank you, minister. the debate is closed.
- the agenda calls for the council and commission statement on the initiative for the new neighbourhood and greater europe. i call the greek foreign minister, mr yiannitsis, on behalf of the council.
council mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the prospect of completing the enlargement process with the 10 new member states has led, since last year, to a new reflection on the european union's relations with its new geographical and political environment, its new neighbours. in essence, beyond the name issues, what emerges is a new vision of how the european union should see the future of its relations with a number of countries around it. this reflection, called 'wider europe - new neighbourhood', was launched last year with the intervention and contributions of the member states. i refer to the letter from jack straw, mrs lindh and mr pagrotsky, the minister for trade, and then to a joint letter from mr solana and mr patten. the council discussed and adopted conclusions on the new neighbourhood initiative on 19 december 2002 for ukraine, moldova and belarus and called for concrete proposals for the project, extending its scope to other neighbouring regions. in this way, the council expressed its intention to develop an ambitious, long-term and integrated approach for each of these three neighbouring countries. this approach is based on the principle of differentiation, taking into account the specific circumstances of each country, its political and economic potential, its performance and the union's objectives for each country. today, almost a year after it began, the completion of the enlargement process has strengthened the prospect of such an approach, as it sets out the wider context of the union's relations with its neighbours, thus achieving the spread of core values such as peace, security and prosperity, which are of immense importance to the citizens of the union. the combination of such a policy with the continuation and deepening of enlargement is intended to create a ring of friends around the european union. the copenhagen council spoke of common political and economic values, of avoiding the creation of new dividing lines and of promoting peace and stability within and beyond the union's borders. these were the main points discussed in april, when the strengthening of cooperation between the european union and its eastern and mediterranean neighbours and the way in which their progress could be assessed were discussed. the same issue was discussed at the european conference of heads of state or government in athens on 17 april and will be discussed at the next euro-mediterranean conference on 26 and 27 may 2003. in particular, the european conference of 17 april provided an opportunity to begin a dialogue on the general principles of the whole initiative and to adopt a declaration specifying its common objectives, objectives accepted by the new member states, accepted by the associated countries, the efta countries, the countries of the western balkans, ukraine, moldova and russia. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the new neighbour initiative is an attempt to give a new impetus to an existing framework for relations with our neighbours to the south and east. it is not, of course, the candidate countries, nor the potential candidates for accession, nor the countries of the western balkans. its scope may be revised in the future in the light of developments. the situation is also being monitored in other areas not too far away, in the south caucasus, which is not currently covered by the initiative either, and i would point out that russia is a special case and this should be reflected in its relationship with this initiative. the principle of diversification i have mentioned concerns the means, conditions and time frames to be set for achieving our objectives, which are the promotion of common political and economic values, prosperity and peace. in relation to political values, they form the basis for improved political relations and are a necessary component of internal political stability and economic prosperity. the promotion of political values also contributes to the establishment and functioning of a responsible and efficient administration. the union can draw important lessons from its enlargement process and extend its experience of programmes to neighbouring countries. the mediterranean countries in particular have a diversity of religions and cultures, and this can be a source of creativity and not a barrier to euro-mediterranean cooperation. we must instead find ways of bridging the communication gap created by different languages, religions, customs and attitudes, so that we can respect cultural diversity at the same time. i now come to the common economic values. the final objective for neighbours who do not wish to join is to join the european area, where there will be a common movement of goods, services and capital, the european economic area. this is a perspective which can be a medium-term alternative for other situations. the integration of russia and ukraine into the world economic system is of particular importance. the process we have already begun with russia to create a common european economic area can also be considered for the other three eastern neighbours, of course with belarus, when the circumstances allow. the european union will continue to support the efforts of the european union to achieve a lasting peace and stability in the region. the preparations for such an agreement with moldova, which has already joined the world trade organisation, will continue. the prospect of establishing a regime of free movement of persons should also not be totally ruled out today, even as a long-term objective. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and the european union has also expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia. it would also demonstrate that the european union is determined to prevent the creation of dividing lines due to enlargement and, in any case, it would give us a degree of flexibility in the way we handle it. as regards the mediterranean partners, the legal framework for euro-mediterranean cooperation is virtually complete and most of them have joined the process of gradually establishing a free trade area with the european union. the liberalization of trade will also prove to be a catalyst for economic reforms. the third objective is to ensure peace and prosperity within and outside the union. in this context, it is appropriate to examine the possibilities for closer cooperation on important international issues such as terrorism, organised crime, petersberg missions, environmental protection, development aid and migration. enlargement creates new opportunities but also new challenges, especially for our neighbours to the east. the petersberg missions and the enhanced cooperation with russia and ukraine are an important tool in the direction we want to go. there is also great potential for enhanced cooperation to address risks such as the threat of environmental and nuclear disasters. the european union must be able to take action to combat these threats, particularly at our new eastern border, and this must be a matter of substance and a matter of priority. in the context of euro-mediterranean cooperation, we must strengthen political dialogue alongside security and create an area of peace and stability. this dialogue should be strengthened both bilaterally and within the framework of the barcelona process. the political aspect of euro-mediterranean cooperation requires measures to improve mutual understanding between the partners, to avoid misunderstandings and, finally, to create the conditions for promoting cooperation in the field of security. at the initiative of the european parliament, we are promoting the development of the parliamentary dimension of euro-mediterranean cooperation through the creation of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly. the objective of creating an area of shared prosperity through sustainable and balanced economic and social development is linked to five specific elements. firstly, the establishment of a free trade area and the protection of the environment are not incompatible but complementary. the framework of the euro-mediterranean strategy for environmental integration, adopted at the euro-mediterranean ministerial conference on the environment in athens, should guide our development actions. the second element is the strengthening of the rule of law. the framework text adopted at the valencian euro-mediterranean conference aims to implement a regional cooperation programme in the field of justice, the fight against drugs, organised crime and terrorism, and cooperation in tackling issues relating to the social integration of migrants, migration itself and trafficking in persons. the third element is the development of cross-border cooperation and the integration of our neighbouring countries into trans-european networks, particularly in transport, telecommunications and energy networks. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use and the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. the fourth element is close cooperation in the energy sector. many of our neighbours are important suppliers and our policy will focus on the union's energy security, always respecting the principle of diversification. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. the union's position on what these countries should expect after they meet the criteria set should be clear. the ultimate objective must be attractive, such as the conclusion of an enhanced agreement. the question of the name must be considered with particular care. symbolism can often be a useful tool and a motivation for substantive reforms. the principle of differentiation must be applied carefully here too. these were my thoughts on this subject, and i thank you very much for your attention.
the commission. - mr president, mr president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission had already spoken at length here on 11 march on the question of the new neighbourhood initiative and, frankly, not much has happened in the meantime that i can tell you about. the member states have begun to deal with the subject in the council. the result has just been explained to you in detail by mr yiannitsis. we have discussed the subject with the future member states, and there was the very welcome initiative of the greek presidency in connection with the signing of the enlargement treaty in athens, to discuss the subject with the partner countries covered by this neighbourhood initiative during a european conference. i am very pleased to say that the response has been overwhelmingly positive and we can actually expect that this initiative will have sufficient political support everywhere. the starting point for our proposals for a new neighbourhood policy is of course enlargement, but now is not the time to discuss a possible accession perspective for our new neighbours. the first thing that is needed for the next decade is a differentiated strategy for intensive good neighbourly relations, without any reference to the accession question. our intention is to export the stability, security and prosperity that we have created in the enlarged european union and will hopefully continue to create. president prodi has described this objective as a ring of friends that surrounds us, a ring that stretches from russia to morocco. in this perspective we can share with our partners much of what constitutes the substance of the european union, not least the common market and its rules, community programmes and political dialogue, but not our internal institutions. the commission has also explained that the countries of the western balkans, but also romania, bulgaria and turkey, are not included in this ring and why. these countries already have a future accession perspective, with a specific time horizon in the case of romania and bulgaria. the intensity and pace of the development of relations between the union and individual countries will of course depend on the capabilities and ambitions of the individual partner countries. the principle of differentiation will play a major role here as it did in the enlargement. we therefore want to work out an action plan with each country, based on experience and on our current contractual commitments. this action plan is intended to define the path we want to take together. the action plans should contain objectives, timetables, modalities and accompanying mechanisms which are then equally binding on both sides. whether we need new contractual instruments, if any, will emerge from this process. in any case, work should continue under the existing partnership and cooperation agreements and not be delayed by the prospect of future agreements. where are we with this project? well, first of all, we are contributing, together with the candidate countries and the partner countries, to the discussions and the intended conclusions in the council. we have had initial exploratory talks with ukraine and moldova to prepare for the necessary cooperation. for the eu-ukraine partnership and cooperation agreement, both sides have jointly produced a detailed analysis of what has been achieved and jointly identified further action needs. we are now working internally within the commission to lay the foundations for the action plans. the national plans must refer to a comprehensive and coherent framework covering all areas. implementation in practice must be verifiable against pre-defined criteria in order to enable the planned progress reports. so you see, we want to use here again a tool which has proved itself very well in the enlargement process. we are developing the concept of a new financial instrument, the general objectives of which have been described, but the precise purpose, planning principles and financial resources have yet to be defined. we intend to present a special communication on this subject in the autumn. in this way we should be able to start the practical work once the necessary political direction has been set, which the presidency is working on as it has presented it, and the presidency's statements have the full support of the commission. the contribution of parliament to the further debate will be significant and weighty. the people's representatives on the side of our partner countries must do their part to make further progress. we can expect that the parliaments of the partner countries will attach great importance to the opinions of the european parliament, and i would also be grateful if the members of the european parliament would use their contacts to engage in intensive dialogue and exchange of experience with the parliamentarians in the partner countries. i am therefore very pleased that the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy has already appointed a rapporteur and held an initial debate. i wish mrs napoletano every success in her task and i would like to tell her that she can fully count on the support and cooperation of the commission in her work.
- mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to inform the house that mrs louise fréchette, deputy secretary-general of the united nations, is here with us. mrs fréchette was in the european parliament today for bilateral meetings with several honourable members and will be speaking to president cox this afternoon. we welcome her, we commend her for the deep dedication she shows in the performance of her duties and we are confident that her time in this house will be extremely fruitful. (applause) i would like to thank
the european union of 25 and later of 27 will have new neighbours in a year's time, but it will also retain old ones. the new environment is both useful and necessary. in this respect, the position of commission president prodi that the european union should see all its new neighbours as friends and partners is absolutely correct. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. in any case, we do not need divisions, we do not need new curtains, we do not need new cold war fronts. the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union, and it is not only a member of the european union, but it is also a member of the european union. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is also a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union. from ukraine, belarus, moldova, russia, the western balkans, the caucasus, the middle east, across the mediterranean, the peoples expect a great deal from the european union, from us! the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. as regards the frontiers of europe, i would like to add to what mr volcic said about the caucasus that, as far back as antiquity, in the ancient greek tragedy of prometheus, it is clearly written that it was there that the gods bound prometheus, punishing him for giving fire to men, and thus giving the first elements of modern civilization.
council article 2 (1) of council directive 1999/70/ec on the framework agreement on fixedterm work concluded by the european trade union confederation, the union of industrial and employers' confederations of europe and the european centre for public enterprises obliges member states to comply with that directive by 10 july 2001. in accordance with article 2 (2), member states may, if necessary, allow a further period of up to one year for the application of this directive to take account of particular difficulties or implementation by collective agreement. in view of this, the council asks the honourable member to refer the matter to the commission, since the commission is responsible for verifying progress in the application of community law by the member states. i am sorry, but in my capacity as a representative of the council, i cannot go into more detail, which is too much and would enlighten the honourable member.
mr president, i listened carefully to the president's answer. the commission certainly has a responsibility for the implementation of community legislation, but the council cannot be irresponsible for the fact that a member state does not implement an important directive. and of course, in relation to the original question, today there is a presidential decree a month ago it has certainly changed, but the presidential decree died in infancy, because the civil court of appeal of crete in its decision 466 of 2002 considered that it is contrary to the basic provisions of the community directive. i have nothing to do but to repeat my question to the president with this new information.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction. the key to the economic guidelines was set by ecofin itself, which set the main objectives for the next three years as reforming the pension system to meet the challenge of an ageing population, increasing the efficiency and flexibility of the labour market, and improving competitiveness through education, training, research and technology. while the socioeconomic situation is worsening and inequalities are multiplying, the policy of structural reforms is being promoted again, leading to the distribution of unemployment, generalizing uncertainty and insecurity, restricting labour income in order to ensure a sustained growth of capital gains. the broad economic policy guidelines are guidelines for the promotion of the infamous lisbon strategy, especially in the areas of industrial relations and social security systems. the first of the economic guidelines, strengthening the economy, calls for the full implementation of the stability pact, a reduction in wage and non-wage labour costs, the link between wages and productivity, measures to generalise part-time, temporary and temporary employment and the promotion of measures to prevent workers from leaving the productive sector, with a view to the compulsory extension of working life, and measures to abolish early retirement. the second axis, reducing public debt, calls for drastic cuts in social spending on the health and welfare of workers, with the aim of reducing public pension schemes, health and welfare, health care expenditure, unemployment benefit schemes, etc., i.e. all social spending because it undermines fiscal stability, since the state budgets are not able to cover these expenditures. thirdly, reform of pension and health care systems and in the name of fiscal balance, it is called for to accelerate the overthrow of pension systems by raising the retirement age and reducing pensions, i.e. the gradual abolition of the state's obligations in social security and encouraging the privatisation and commercialisation of the health and welfare sectors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is unacceptable at the very least, under the pressure of monopoly interests, to continue to insist on such failed measures, which lead to the impoverishment and marginalization of workers in order to promote the irresponsible profits of big capital. the workers are reacting strongly to this policy and are mobilizing en masse in all the countries that are trying to implement it. we support their struggles, we denounce with them this anti-people policy of serving the interests of capital, we contribute to their struggle and we strengthen the formation of anti-monopoly, anti-imperialist coalitions to overthrow it.
in writing. - (el) the new proposal for a directive differs significantly from the idea which has been put forward so far in the fight against foot-and-mouth disease and is moving in the right direction. the most fundamental difference is the authorisation of vaccines as the first measure to combat foot-and-mouth disease, whereas the measures of isolation, transport ban and slaughter, which were until now the only measures authorised, are now considered as additional measures. at the same time, the proposal provides for the marginalisation of countries where the disease appears and requires greater veterinary control and more staff with the necessary flexibility. however, we oppose the provision which allows the european commission to decide on vaccines or to refer the matter to a community body to take a decision itself, even without the agreement of the member state concerned. member states and the competent national services are the only competent authorities to assess the problem and decide on the necessary measures.
in writing. - (el) space science and technology have brought enormous benefits to humankind, whether in the form of new knowledge and advanced technology or in everyday applications (telecommunications, earth and atmospheric observation, navigation). european countries have made a particularly important contribution to launch systems, research and applications. however, future development is under threat, with the commercial exploitation of space applications and services now the driving force. thus, by operating under the conditions and rules of the market economy and liberalisation, the european aerospace industry risks being weakened by competition from mainly us companies. many are planning the development of military space applications within the framework of the eu's common defence and security policy. the eu also often cites the requirements of the space industry to justify the military use of space. the greek communist party is categorically opposed to such a prospect which will lead to further militarization of space, with the eu leading the way. we advocate the exclusively peaceful exploitation of space and public funding of relevant activities. future development cannot be achieved within the framework of the market; it must not be encouraged by commercial profit but by the development of activities which will benefit all mankind.
in writing. - (el) no one questions the role of education in reducing poverty. the problem is how to ensure access to education for hundreds of millions of children, how education can serve development. the commission's communication and the report of the committee on development and cooperation are nothing more than a wish list, despite their positive conclusions and proposals. even if aid is increased, as proposed, it will be a pittance, a philanthropic gesture, compared with the real needs of the developing countries. the development of grassroots movements against globalisation and poverty has given rise to frequent discussions on the situation in developing countries. the eu wants to show that it listens to protests, that it is fighting poverty, that it is improving its image in the eyes of the public, that it is erasing old crimes and new ones. however, there is no discussion about responsibility, nothing is said about the consequences of long-term colonialism, or about how natural resources are plundered and the population robbed. the attempt, via the wto, to impose conditions favourable to large companies is not diminishing. nothing is said about the external debt. the greek communist party does not believe in eu charity. it is the struggle of the people themselves that will lift them out of poverty and lead them to development.
mr president, before the order is issued, i wish to report that in the midst of the criminal attacks being carried out by the israeli army in palestine and the occupied territories, we had a savage attack on the offices of the palestinian people's party in ramallah at midnight on 10 may. this attack is not the first. similar attacks have occurred in nablus, tulkarem, salfit, kalkilia, jenin. the communist party of jordan denounces that the aim of the israelis is to strike at the palestinian people's party, which has been fighting and continues to fight for a just solution to the issue on the basis of un resolutions against israeli aggression, occupation and war crimes committed by the israeli army. we, the undersigned, join this protest and express our solidarity with the palestinian people's party and the palestinian people in general, who are experiencing particularly difficult times today because of the sharon regime, which is exploiting the fact that humanity's attention has been diverted, including to iraq, to further and complete its crime. i would like to ask you, mr president, to support us and parliament in our efforts to react and put an end to this kind of arbitrariness.
commission. – mr president, the commission in principle supports taiwanese efforts to participate in the work of international bodies and organisations, provided that taiwan's participation adds value in terms of the objectives of the organisation in question. however, such participation must be compatible with taiwan's status and the european union's one-china policy. in the case of the world health organisation, our view is that the first criterion is met. taiwan has made considerable achievements in the field of public health and is increasingly engaged in international aid and health activities. moreover, the recent outbreak of sars, also in taiwan, shows that taiwan needs direct channels of communication with, and assistance from, the world health organisation. this is also in the interests of the wider international community, including china. all affected areas need to be kept in the loop and the concerted efforts of all are needed to combat this deadly disease. it should be possible to find a pragmatic formula for some sort of taiwanese participation in the world health organisation which does not involve issues of statehood or sovereignty and is thus in line with our one-china policy. there are precedents for the participation in the world health organisation of other non-state bodies or organisations and this shows that solutions can be found, even where who rules do not expressly make provision for this. for taiwan, one possibility could be participation via an ngo. we are currently examining, together with member states and other major partners, what sort of arrangement could be feasible.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place after the debate.
- the joint debate on six motions for resolutions on freedom of expression and religion in vietnam: - b5-0239/2003 by mr van den bos and mr watson, on behalf of the eldr group, on freedom of expression and religion in vietnam; - b5-0242/2003 by mrs mckenna, on behalf of the green group, on freedom of expression and religion in vietnam; - b5-0244/2003 by mr nassauer, mr maij-weggen, mr posselt and mr mann, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on freedom of expression and freedom of religion in vietnam; - b5-0253/2003 by mr corbett and mr van den berg, on behalf of the pse group, on freedom of expression and religion in vietnam; - b5-0255/2003 by mr belder, on behalf of the edd group, on freedom of expression and religion in vietnam; - b5-0256/2003 by mr sjöstedt, mr morgantini and mr eriksson, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on freedom of expression and religion in vietnam.
commission. – mr president, the commission's overall policy towards vietnam is to encourage and support continued progress on human rights and democratisation and to raise concerns where abuses occur or where a deterioration in the situation becomes evident. the commission works closely with eu member states in monitoring human rights developments in the country and participates in all démarches to the government of vietnam on human rights issues. i can assure honourable members that the commission and eu member states have repeatedly urged the government of vietnam to strengthen its respect for political and religious freedoms and to further strengthen economic and social freedoms. article 1 of the european community and vietnam cooperation agreement of 1995 states that respect for human rights and democratic principles is the basis of our cooperation. this reference has given the commission increased possibilities to discuss human rights issues with vietnam, for example in joint committee meetings held under the agreement. with the aim of encouraging and supporting the continued commitment of the government of vietnam to human rights issues, the commission is currently considering proposing a further reinforcement of the relations in this field. this could be done through the establishment of a mechanism for a structured human rights dialogue, taking account of the experience gained with dialogues that the eu has already established with other countries. let me recall that the constitution of vietnam guarantees freedom of belief and religion and that the vietnamese government officially recognises six religions. the constitution also specifies that it is forbidden to violate freedom of belief or religion or to take advantage of it, or to act against the laws or policies of the state. this provision is attributed to the desire of the vietnamese authorities to control the pace of change and to maintain cohesion in their society during the process of transition to a market economy. however, it may also be used against non-approved religious groups which, according to the vietnamese authorities, engage in political activities or are potential elements of disunity. reports of harassment of christians in vietnam, especially the montagnards and hmong christians, have increased since the violent uprising in the central highlands in 2001, in which some religious groups were reportedly implicated. a number of so far unconfirmed reports since then have alleged repeated actions by local official forces aimed at forcing highlanders to renounce their faith. commission president prodi and commissioner patten discussed the situation in the central highlands with vietnam's prime minister, phan van khai, during his visit to the commission last september. they agreed that the commission would explore, under its financial cooperation programme, specific activities involving, inter alia, ethnic minorities to reduce poverty in the central highlands and thus to deal with some of the root causes of problems in the area. a preparatory mission of experts is currently in the field. as mr dupuis has already mentioned, recent, promising, positive signals have been sent out by the vietnamese government regarding the still unrecognised unified buddhist church of vietnam. there has been a meeting between prime minister phan van khai and the supreme patriarch, the venerable thich huyen quang. a meeting between the patriarch and the venerable thich quang do, another prominent leader of the unified buddhist church, has also been authorised. although no change with regard to the church's legal status has so far taken place, we believe that these events, as mentioned, are encouraging steps towards enhanced tolerance of religious freedom in vietnam. let me conclude by emphasising that i am convinced that what is needed in vietnam is continued and more rapid progress in the country's reform programme so that the administration would learn to deal with a wider range of use and appreciate the value of accommodating dissent in the system of government. i thank all honourable members of the european parliament for their very valuable and good speeches. (applause)
- this debate is over. the vote will take place after the debate.
- we now move on to the vote on the questions of violation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. documents received - declaration of financial interests - appointment of committees - authorization to draw up own-initiative reports - cooperation between parliamentary committees - written declarations entered in the register (rule 51) - transmission of resolutions adopted at this part-session - schedule of next part-sessions: see minutes. (the sitting was closed at 4.40 p.m.)
mr president, on the subject of the colleague's remark on cyprus, i would say that we must not forget that the northern part of cyprus is under turkish occupation as a result of the 1974 invasion. now on to my point: the european union must not forget that the united states, which has been the world's leading economic power since the end of the cold war, has been the world's leading economic power since the beginning of the cold war. indeed, the united states congress has authorized research on so-called mini-nuclear weapons, as well as new nuclear weapons that penetrate the ground, causing ten times the destruction. this development comes just 18 months after the nuclear post review which seeks to find loopholes for the use of nuclear weapons as part of the new us strategy of pre-emptive strike. at the same time, mr bush himself is leading the ongoing campaign against cuba, with his well-known message of 20 may, while the united states of america is causing interference in the country's radio and television network to broadcast its petty propaganda. in denouncing this, i wonder, mr president, what those who have supported and are supporting, directly or indirectly, imperialist aggression have to say. i also wonder whether those who have described the american agents in cuba as human rights defenders will utter a single word of protest against the new escalation of the attack on the island of revolution.
mr. president, the rich and powerful of the world have gathered in evian to discuss international security, development and economic stability. in essence, they want to coordinate in the face of the crisis that is plaguing the capitalist system and leading to high unemployment, poverty and exclusion. they want to strengthen their power and take far-reaching measures to concentrate the wealth of the earth in their hands by any means, even by fearing the specter of terror they have created. the eight are not concerned about the poor and how they live but about how they will not rise up against them, against the cruel exploitation and injustice. that's why they took the toughest repressive measures, preventing thousands of protesters from reaching and expressing their opposition to the globalization of capital and its predatory exploitation. mr president, the presidency and the commission must make a statement to this house both on the content of the discussions in which they took part and on the repressive measures taken against the demonstrators, which are the same and perhaps worse for the thessaloniki european council.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the proposed restructuring benefits only the powerful monopoly groups and has a negative impact on the cost to the working family, on national energy planning and on the position of workers in the sector. the communist party of greece considers that energy is not just a consumer product but a strategic sector for development and therefore cannot be the object of business and speculation but must belong to the public. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it is designed to encourage exports by the strong community monopolies, which will benefit from the reduction in real transport costs. at the same time, high profitability is ensured by shifting the new economic burdens onto the working class family. at the same time, the increase in exports will limit the development of generating plants in the weaker member states that would use domestic energy sources. in addition, control of national transmission networks is being shifted from the member states to the commission, with the result that national energy planning capacities, which could reduce energy dependence and ensure that each member state's needs are met, are being reduced. cross-border energy exchanges can be used to reduce energy dependence, to ensure cheap energy and to exploit domestic sources. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter.
the adoption of the employment guidelines is of particular importance to parliament, mr president, especially now that the commission is presenting a revised proposal with a limited number of objectives, which are the pillars of the european social model in the new economy. in this context, the adoption by a large majority of the rapporteur's report by the plenary is a one-way street and an obligation to the european citizens whose interests we represent. the commission's initiative seems to confirm the priority given to quality competition, which includes both the quality of work and the quality of public services. the policy of promoting not just cheap labour but increasingly cheap labour, to which the epp amendments lead, is futile because while it brings about a gradual reduction in living standards it facilitates the maintenance of firms with low productivity and low capacity for growth, as the rapporteur rightly points out. instead of insisting on linking the stability pact, which limits initiatives for labour market interventions and measures to modernise public services, without which they would be handed over to private exploitation, other guidelines should be sought. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs intended for human consumption, as amended by the council directive of 18 december 1992, is a step in the right direction. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. it would be a pity if the epp were to persist in its original choices, which, instead of exploiting the competitiveness of quality, which is the advantage of the european economy, would lead to the increasing exploitation of cheap labour. finally, i should like to congratulate the commission for giving particular importance to the more active involvement of national parliaments and the mobilisation of local communities, with corresponding concrete commitments to increase employment, an idea which i myself have supported in the past. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to say, mr president, that it is indeed outrageous that the council is absent from such a debate, when the warning from the european parliament to the council preceded it in the previous plenary session. the commission and the council would do well to heed the warnings of the european parliament, and on such important matters. the only possible excuse for the council not being here would be if its president were locked up somewhere reading the amnesty international report for 2003, which tells us that the great danger to rights today is the measures that the united states is taking globally under the pretext of 9/11 and which are intended to undermine and lead to a backsliding of democratic and other rights of citizens. the case we are now considering for the extradition and mutual assistance agreement is an export from the united states of restrictions on rights, and even on the subject of the death penalty. the united states exports it to us and we, with no shame at all and, unfortunately, under the greek presidency, introduce it through this agreement. i would ask commissioner vitorino to give us his opinion. mr commissioner, while you are here and you are not yet secretary-general of nato, why do you think that in article 13, which refers to the question of extradition of a person who may face the death penalty, the wording of the agreement says: 'the request for extradition may be denied' by the european union to the united states and does not say 'will be denied'? why would you do that? explain it to us and to us so that we can understand it.
in writing. - (el) the development of flexibility and atypical forms of work to redistribute unemployment, entrepreneurship, the extension of working life under the pretext of an ageing population, viable pensions and lifelong education and training are the commission's basic employment guidelines. at the same time, by reducing wages not only in relative terms but also in absolute terms and linking them to productivity, the welfare state and social protection are being eroded and these inadequate safety rules at the workplace are not being applied. unemployment is rising steadily and, without taking latent unemployment into account, exceeds 10%. this situation, in particular the large number of longterm unemployed, as well as unemployment among young people and women, who are unable to enter the labour market, causes serious poverty and social exclusion. the term employment policy is a complete lie. the proposed measures are in fact measures to make large companies more irresponsible by granting them new privileges. this policy is an escalation of the attack on workers' rights and is only intended to further promote plans for cheap labour, without labour, insurance, wage or union rights, and to increase profits. not only do workers not accept these measures, but they are reacting massively and dynamically to the monopolistic choices by intensifying their struggle.
in writing. -(el) the report on euro-mediterranean cooperation once again conceals the eu's arrogance towards the mediterranean countries. the 'civilized' europe is ready to give lessons in democracy and free trade to its 'uncivilized' neighbours. it is becoming an expert in everything, especially in human rights, at a time when a huge network of dictatorship, repression and police states is emerging within the eu itself. it propagates its own version of terrorism, it imposes special clauses in the association agreements, while it does not say a word about israeli state terrorism. it is not using its economic superiority to help the development of the countries of north africa and the middle east, but to impose its conditions on trade and internal affairs of these countries. the report even goes so far as to call on the associated countries to implement convergence policies with the euro while exerting pressure for the development of the private sector. despite claims to the contrary, euro-mediterranean relations have been and remain uneven. they were and remain a vehicle for interference in the internal affairs of mediterranean countries in order to support the eu's economic, military and political interests. this policy will be intensified as the eu's attention will be turned to the mediterranean once enlargement is completed. by voting against this report, the communist party of greece expresses its support for the peoples and their struggle, the only possible way to progress.
in writing. - (el) the mere fact of debating this issue, just a few days after the criminal invasion of the us-british armed forces in iraq, is a provocation. under this agreement, the eu freely hands over citizens of its member countries and their personal data to us courts and prosecuting authorities, who will be free to act without any democratic control. joint eu-us investigation teams will be active on eu territory without any controls, thus violating national constitutions and domestic law. this is an agreement to the detriment of the citizens of the eu member states. the agreement does not bring any changes to us domestic law, such as the abolition of the death penalty or the discretionary provisions of the patriot act that deny legal assistance to non-us citizens, the amendment of the legislation of certain us states that are incompatible with european law, or the end of the inhumane detention of prisoners of war, or even citizens of eu member states, at guantanamo. we call on our peoples to mobilize en masse against a dangerous agreement which, under the guise of fighting terrorism, will lead to the escalation of persecution against the popular anti-imperialist movement by extraditing its leaders to the united states, but also more generally all those whom the united states considers as suspects; prevent the legalisation of activities uncontrolled by us prosecuting authorities within the eu itself and prevent the ratification of such an agreement by their national governments.
mr president, the commission's recent proposals for the reform of the cap are not just a mid-term corrective revision, but they are a coup de grace for small and mediumsized farmers, they reduce the quality and competitiveness of agricultural products and they damage the environment. the commission's proposals are not only a means of ensuring that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the present crisis, but also a means of ensuring that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the present crisis. the decoupling of subsidies from production and the payment of direct income aid, the diversification by gradually reducing and decoupling aid exceeding eur 5 000 per holding and the complete dependence of aid on strict compliance with environmental standards, the so-called multiple compliance, are turning the already disastrous cap into a mechanism for the eradication of farmers, radically changing the production map of the countryside. the commission's proposals for the dismantling of the market in aspirin, such as the proposal to diversify the dismantling process, i.e. to make it gradual rather than universal, to make it less product-intensive in the first year rather than all products, do not negate any of the above and will have the same devastating effects on the rural economy in the medium term. the objective of the cap revision is to save resources from agriculture for other policies, emu, cfp and others, and to orient agriculture towards the market in conditions of extreme competition, without any social, developmental or environmental criteria, as the mechanisms of the world health organization and the pressures of the united states require. the constantly repeated appeal to protect the environment is used as an alibi for reducing agricultural production. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. the notorious multi-functionality of agriculture, with the reallocation of resources to the second pillar for the supposed development of the countryside, is only a very poor cover for the objective of marginalizing the rural world and altering its social and environmental role. the implementation of these proposals leaves no room for the development of the rural economy, leads to the forced conversion of farms, the disappearance of small farming, the collectivization of the farmer for both the enlargement countries and the existing member states, increases the profits of multinationals, strengthens and consolidates the plunder of the developing countries and their peoples. the report by mr van miert, which i am sure will be of great interest to the house, is a very good report, and i hope that it will be followed by a number of other reports. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we stand with the farmers and support them in their dynamic struggles, the only solution to ensure their survival, to protect the quality of the products, the consumer and the environment.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to say that the minister for the presidency of the european council is absent. i would like to begin by congratulating all the rapporteurs who have dealt with the very serious subject we are discussing today, but i would also like to congratulate mr cunha on his enormous work, which i do not envy at all. i wouldn't want to be in his shoes, but i congratulate him on what he's managed to produce. let me convey to you the anxiety and the wonder of the greek farmers, why mediterranean products are not included in the revision of the cap and the anxiety about what will emerge in the second part, in the second negotiation, when we discuss after the cancun round of the world trade organization mediterranean products. we're worried about you. we are very worried and i hope it will be shown that we are worried unnecessarily but until it is proved we will be worried. we think that the limit of eur 5 000 is too low. it must be increased drastically if we are to have real improvement in production and monitoring of all the conditions necessary to have an improved outlook in the agricultural sector. i also want to express my conviction that the lessfavoured island regions, which are particularly large in my country, and the mountainous regions throughout the european union will be given special treatment. we must have the sense to keep these people in their villages, in their rural areas, instead of making them unemployed urban dwellers. i welcome the prospect of making agricultural production a business. but how the farmer becomes an entrepreneur i want to see. finally, we all welcome the enlargement of the european union to 10 new member states, but i would like to see the farmers of the european union not be the only ones to pay the enlargement bill.
commission. the commission has taken a proactive and leading role in responding to the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars). as recently stated by the council on sars on 6 may 2003, this has been undertaken through the eu network for the epidemiological surveillance and control of communicable diseases in the community, working in the framework of decision no 2119/1998/ec. this has provided a very effective basis for the rapid exchange of information within the eu and for a coordinated response in which efta and candidate countries have fully participated in collaboration with the who. at its extraordinary meeting on sars, the council broadly agreed the orientation developed by the commission with the assistance of the network committee. although the application of health protection measures falls to the authorities of the member states, the orientation for immediate and future actions will focus on the following issues: rapid detection of all suspect cases of sars through good surveillance; protection of those at risk of infection through effective isolation of sars patients in hospitals, including measures to protect carers; particular attention to be paid to air travel, which has been an important factor in the spread of sars, notably to standardised screening of passengers leaving affected areas; on-board advice to passengers and effective information at ports of entry from affected areas; raising awareness among professionals and the public and the timely and accurate reporting and sharing of information with other countries, in particular eea and efta countries, acceding and candidate countries, and with the who. cooperation should also be developed with other partners such as airline companies, and the organising bodies of mass gatherings. the council also took note of the commission's intention to submit a proposal to create a european centre for disease prevention and control.
on behalf of mr xarchakos, who cannot be here for reasons beyond his control, i would like to thank the commissioner.
commission. the recent large-scale arrest of dissidents, the unfair trials and the arbitrary and excessive sentences imposed on them, as well as the execution of three cuban citizens convicted of highjacking a cuban ferry, have had a prompt, firm and sustained reaction from the european union. the commission has fully and actively supported the actions that have been taken in this context. the commission, together with the member states, has strongly condemned such arrests in a declaration published on 26 march 2003, which was followed up by an eu démarche in havana to urge the cuban authorities to allow the prisoners' immediate release. a second eu démarche in havana took place on 18 april, following the foreign ministers' statement issued on 14 april. further measures have recently been agreed, including limits to high-level visits. the commission decided on 30 april to defer the examination of the cuban application for accession to the cotonou agreement, signalling that these recent developments are not conducive to cooperation between the european union and cuba. the cuban authorities decided on 16 may to withdraw their application. the commission is concerned about the treatment of prisoners and believes that the cuban authorities should invite the international red cross to visit them to ensure that they are treated humanely.
commission. as i have already indicated, the view of the commission is that the international red cross should be invited to examine and report on the situation. in addition, a new eu démarche is being prepared for the beginning of june, but there is no agreement yet on the text. to sum up, the situation is that the commission is keeping this issue under review and maintaining such pressure as it is capable of bringing to bear on the situation.
the european union has been calling for the release of the hostages, but the united states has not yet done so. the united states has admitted that it is offering tens of millions of dollars to build an internal opposition in cuba. indeed, what country would not protect itself from outside interference? i would like to ask you, commissioner, to comment on the action taken by mr cason and his office in cuba. i would also like your comment on mr bush's message of 20 may promising freedom for cuba, and your comment on the fact that the united states has not punished the hijackers who violently hijacked planes from cuba. and finally, what do you think about the united states detaining five cuban patriots who haven't even seen 80% of the indictment because it was supposed to be secret?
the commission. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the directive is implemented in greece and has recently notified the commission of the implementing legislation. the commission is currently in the process of evaluating the transfer and will take a decision after a careful examination of the file. however, it is clear that, according to clause 5 of the directive, member states must adopt measures to prevent the abuse which may result from the use of successive fixedterm contracts. the directive provides some options for member states in applying the clause. they shall lay down at least one of the following measures: objective reasons justifying the renewal of fixed-term contracts, maximum total duration of contracts and number of renewals. a first reading of the presidential decree shows that article 5 provides for the above, and that it expressly states that the renewal of fixed-term employment contracts is permissible if justified by an objective reason, and indicates examples of cases of assistance of an objective reason. of course, it is for the member states themselves to define what is meant by the phrase 'objective reasons'. however, the measures adopted must be sufficient to prevent abuse. for example, the argument that employment in the public sector is in itself an objective reason for successive indefinite fixed-term contracts cannot be accepted. there should be an objective justification based on the nature of the object. the commission, as i said, intends to assess the transposition of the implementing legislation and to take further action if necessary.
mr president, i appreciate the commissioner's reply and i understand her position, since she comes from my own country. as he understood it, the question was not one of objective reasons and criteria for application, but of scope. i note what you said about the public sector, but i would like to ask you: when does the commission think it will have its assessment ready on the scope of the directive and the unacceptable, in my view, exceptions made for the public sector and certain sectors? because there is a legal mess in greece. we already have decisions of the courts of first instance in patras, larissa, and the court of appeal in crete, which apply the directive and do not apply the presidential decree. i would ask the commissioner if she can estimate when we will have this commission position.
mr president, if i could make a wish in this debate, it would be that mr simitis should remain in office for another six months, and for the second half of 2003. i would wish the same if mr karamanlis, the leader of the official opposition, were to be president, given the concern i do feel about the coming, not of the italian presidency in general - my great respect for the italian people - but of mr berlusconi. and i think it is not the time to pass an american kit to the european union and we will be more of a circus than we were in the case of iraq. i would like to say that in my view the greek presidency has been methodical and has made a serious preparation. i would like to congratulate mr yanitsis on the way the presidency has approached cooperation with the european parliament, but i think there are still serious political problems, especially on the big issue that has arisen, the issue of relations with the united states and the war in iraq. the greek presidency has pursued a policy of 'stepping on two boats' and i think it is closing the presidency with europe in disarray. what exactly is our position? the one expressed by mr blair, the one expressed by mr schroeder, the one expressed by mr athnar, the one expressed by mr chirac? it is a big problem and i think it is a new fact that does not allow us to start building on sand, because i hear about all these things that we are going to build on in terms of our foreign policy, about the foreign ministers and so on and i wonder on what ground, on what policy we are going to build them. before concluding, mr president, i will only say that i believe that the greek presidency, because it was the iraq dossier, the most important and the most difficult it has faced, should ask for explanations, as explanations are asked in the united states and the united kingdom, about the weapons of mass destruction on which the intervention in iraq was based, which was supported by prominent members of the european council, such as mr blair, mr athanasius and others.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, you have touched on the subject of immigration and we would like to know what progress has been made on the issues of illegal immigration, readmission and asylum. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the european union's external borders policy. there is a stagnation on this issue and so far there has been no consensus among the member states. i would even say that the protection of external borders would be an important step for the common foreign, security and defence policy, because it is impossible to want to adopt a common foreign, security and defence policy without having adopted common external borders, and it is an opportunity to start with the opportunity of illegal immigration to have the protection of these borders. i would also say that as far as economic solidarity and the equitable burden-sharing in the area of immigration, which was also a major priority of your programme, is concerned, we have no indication that it is going in the right direction. i should like to say that the treaty expressly provides for the adoption of measures to ensure a fair distribution of the burden between member states in receiving and dealing with the consequences of receiving refugees and displaced persons. another point i would like to make is that a public health issue was given a chance with the sars epidemic. there was a unanimous view here in parliament that the commission should promote the centre for the control and prevention of communicable diseases so that the european union can respond in a coordinated way to threats to health and to threats from terrorism. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to the question of the future of the community. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would say, as you have rightly said and others have also said, that this text contains very good points, excellent elements, such as the incorporation of the charter, the increase in the powers of the european parliament, the codecision. it also provides for the post of foreign minister for foreign policy. i would like to stress three points, however. the first is that the preamble is satisfactory, of course, because it mentions the contributions of greek and roman culture, but to me it is inconceivable that it does not mention the contributions of christianity. here there are thousands of paintings in museums all over the world which are products of european inspiration and cultural production. there are also music theatres, there are a lot of artworks, a cultural treasure that certainly reflects origins from christianity. we are talking about history, not the future. what will happen in the future, no one knows. but our origins are greek, roman and christian. the second point, which we are totally opposed to, is that there can be a member state which is not represented by a commissioner. we believe that all member states should have a commissioner. it is not possible for a member state to be absent from the college of commissioners and from the table at which we are basically having the community event. this is unthinkable! it will upset a balance between small and large states, a balance which is very important in my opinion. the third point, which is also unthinkable, is the history of the presidency of the council. this is a nebula, it's incomprehensible. a thousand times better than the current system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to improve the existing system. i prefer the present system, whereby each country has the ambition to contribute to the european project. and we see that your presidency has contributed and the belgian presidency has contributed and the danish presidency has contributed. what is it that makes us now look for a person who will be appointed i do not know how and who i foresee will cause friction in the functioning of the institutions? the balance between the institutions of the council, parliament and the european commission must be maintained. i am very much afraid that the system of the presidency of the council will overthrow it.
mr president, in a few days we will have the council of thessaloniki, a city, because many people talk about history and culture, which was the second largest city of the roman empire, the second largest city of the byzantine empire, and has always been the centre of reference in the balkans. for reasons also of historical and cultural significance, it must be remembered that it did not simply host the large sephardic jewish community but that it hosted them after being expelled by the spanish inquisition. just as the balkans hosted hundreds of thousands of gypsies, once again expelled by the inquisition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. each presidency is characterised by certain important features. the thessaloniki presidency has two characteristics: the european parliament has been a very important institution in the past, and it is not just the european parliament that has been the subject of this debate, but also the european parliament, which has been the subject of this debate. in this sense, it has two important elements which it must promote in order to give a perspective for the future. the war in iraq has led us all, perhaps a little surprised, to discover a great many gaps in the development of europe. it may have had some positive effects, because it has finally revealed to everyone, whether they say it or not today, that europe cannot remain an economic giant while being a political dwarf. the president of the commission is absolutely right. we shall now proceed to the council of thessaloniki. i would like to add two things, however, despite the fact that my speech seems to be divided on the second part of thessaloniki, the stability pact. the stability pact concerns the crisis in the western balkans, in the former yugoslavia. it is a question of the effectiveness and substance of european policy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration. democracy means parliamentary control. efficiency means being able to control what you implement and transparency means being able to see where your money is going and whether your policy objectives are being served. in this sense the community method and its variants must be strengthened. i believe that the greek presidency, combining the dialectics of socrates and plato, as some have said, with the most effective aristotle, will give a positive perspective and validate a six-month presidency of exemplary and extremely effective effectiveness in a country of average size but with highly competent political staff.
the greek presidency has indeed dealt with serious issues, mr president. on 17 february it was ruled that the problem with iraq was its disarmament, which earned mr bush's congratulations. the disagreement with the us was not about whether to use force but when. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the presidency statement of 16 april ex post facto legitimises the attack, recognises the invaders' sovereignty over iraq and entrusts the un with the role of mediator in the distribution of the spoils. what if no weapons of mass destruction were found? what if american officials say they never existed? if reality is so wrong for you, then so much the worse for reality. another great achievement of yours was the swallowing up of nine and a half new countries into the european union. i say nine and a half because cyprus is being divided, but that is a minor detail which we must not allow to overshadow the glamour of the greater europe. what will the european union really do to drive the turkish occupation army out of cyprus? as for your policy in the balkans, what do you have to say about the subsidized relocation of companies, such as siser-palco, which leaves thousands of unemployed in greece and elsewhere? it is also not unnoticed that your policy has succeeded in bringing hundreds of thousands of indignant workers onto the streets, today in france, yesterday in austria, earlier in greece, in almost all the countries of the european union. it's their response to the blow of everything the working class has conquered in the last 100 years. it would be a mistake not to mention the farce of the assembly, with its careful selection of members to drown out any voice opposed to the european union, with its blatant manipulation by the bureau. the rape of democracy has created a caste that redistributes power in favour of the powerful and lays the foundations for the militarization of the union. the european parliament's committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, which is responsible for the european union's foreign policy, has called for the european union to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the european union's foreign policy is not distorted by the threat of terrorism. no matter how many parties are held, no matter how many repressive measures are taken to protect the leaders from the love of the masses, no matter how far from the city the congress is held, the thundering voice of protest will not be silenced, the resistance of the united anti-imperialist, anti-monopoly forces will not be suppressed.
mr president, to the two-word remarks by my colleagues on the capacity, sensitivity and efficiency of the greek presidency, i would just like to add the satisfaction of those of us who have experienced very closely what president prodi called passion and intelligence. the thessaloniki agenda includes a number of hot-button issues that divide both member states and public opinion. the draft constitutional treaty is of paramount importance and we hope that the assembly will come up with a comprehensive proposal that will bring the european union out of its identity crisis, and not just a list of alternatives. i also hope, together with thousands of women's organisations across europe, that the constitutional treaty will fully guarantee gender equality in all areas, the abolition of all exclusion on grounds of gender and ensure the balanced participation of men and women in european democratic institutions. women will never accept a constitution which leaves out of the union's values and objectives gender equality. women will never accept that the escalating violence against them and the rampant trafficking and sexual exploitation cannot be addressed because of the lack of a clear legal basis in the treaty. on the question of asylum and immigration, the logic of the uk's plan to revise asylum, which literally tramples on the 1951 geneva convention, should be rejected. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. as mrs terrón i cusí said, most migrants enter the european union legally. we need better management of migration flows, not more border enforcement, repression or linking migration to the activities of criminal networks. finally, at the eu-us summit, i think that the agenda should include, firstly, the abolition of the death penalty in the united states, secondly, the treatment of prisoners at guantanamo and thirdly, what we have called here in this chamber the lie of the century, the existence of weapons of mass destruction in iraq. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
council mr vice-president of the parliament, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the president of parliament, president prodi and a great many of the speakers for the kind words they have used to refer to the efforts of the presidency this semester to deal with a number of very important issues and also to thank you for the personal references that have been made. the greek presidency and i personally are on our last day in the european parliament. we have about three weeks left on our programme and i have also noted those points where it is of particular interest to make a last-ditch effort to see if we can resolve issues that have been pending for some time. as regards matters relating to the presidency's report and developments in a number of issues not so much to do with thessaloniki, this will be done by the prime minister, mr simitis, on 1 july as scheduled. i would like to make a few comments on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a disaster. first of all the western balkans. yes, indeed, it is very important for the balkans to get a political message from the european union that their european perspective is supported, that they will be helped in their european perspective, that they too must make a series of efforts and reforms to go forward successfully and that we are close and have the accession process as a perspective. the presidency believes that the balkans are not far away. it is in europe and that is why it is very important that this fragile area be treated with particular care by the european union. we therefore want the outcome of the meeting to give a boost to the integration process, to set out policies and, of course, to provide the appropriate funding to support the efforts of these countries going forward. we all know about the tragic incident with the serbian president genghis khan a few months ago. at least one could say that one positive aspect of this tragic development was that it mobilized the spirits. there's more understanding and effort from many sides. as regards the issue of immigration, it is a huge problem for europe, which, if it were not overshadowed by the political developments in iraq during this semester, would still carry the same heavy weight as it did at the end of the last presidency. we still think it's a big deal, regardless of the political developments. there must be efforts. we are waiting for initiatives from the commission and the council this month to see what can be done. we must find the balance between immigrants living legally in the european area and our societies. we must find ways to deal with the problems of illegal immigration and the phobias in society. but we must also find ways of financing to deal with these problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the laeken conference has set the framework and the conditions within which the convention must operate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. i would like to conclude by saying that a few months after the start of the greek presidency europe is in a very important and different phase. we are a space with 25 member countries. we are a place that has had a common currency for two or three years now. we are an association which is pushing forward and has realised the need for institutional change, sees the need to have a stronger presence in the field of foreign policy and defence. the commission has been very active in this area in recent months. we are a europe that is now discussing new policies, such as the policy of the so-called wider europe new neighbourhood, the balkan, mediterranean and middle east issues, economic governance and migration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are a place which i believe must, through all this, create conditions of confidence in its citizens for the future of this place, conditions of confidence in democracy and human rights, conditions of confidence in social achievements, employment, development and, in general, conditions of confidence in our ability to respond to the serious problems of our societies. i think that this is the logic behind the answers we must give by the end of this month and, of course, from next month and then with the next presidencies.
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this has been a very intense debate, one of great interest. i noted all the issues that were touched upon, issues that are vital to our future: the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. in this short answer i would simply like to make a call which i feel is absolutely necessary and indispensable today, when we are going to have to take fundamental decisions in thessaloniki for our whole future. i would like to call on the convention to give us the answer that many of you - starting with mr wurtz - have said that the convention has not yet given. this is happening by a very simple process. we wanted the convention at a time of the greatest depression in our institutions; we all wanted it together after the night in nice, when it became clear that the intergovernmental method of negotiation between the states - in fact, in the nights of the intergovernmental conference - was not producing sufficient results. we wanted it to give our people and our parliaments back the sovereignty they deserve. now the convention has set to work: it was supposed to be a process that was closed; the convention was to give the intergovernmental conference a finished product. instead, a parallel process has been born: the european parliament has been the subject of a number of reports, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its views on the matter. i repeat the words of mr frassoni: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. my appeal is very simple: we want the convention to carry out its work fully and autonomously. i am glad that the european parliament has been able to present a precise and organic plan, as you all have asked, because the convention assembly represents all the citizens, all the countries and all the institutions of our europe. we need her voice, we need her to play her part to the full. we have been divided over the last few months on the fundamental points of our policy and we have also been humiliated in our foreign policy. do we want to deny ourselves the tools we need to build our dignity? we are not going to have the courage to make proposals that become the means of our survival. i can summarize with great pleasure the speeches of all the chairmen of the major political groups who i have the pleasure of having before me today, who have unanimously expressed coherent and courageous proposals on the rule of the coalition, on the role of parliament and on the future dynamics of the institutions. they have made bold proposals for today and tomorrow, such as the unification of the president of the commission and the president of the council. they have given us, all together, a unified picture of what they want for the future of europe. so, as i ask the convention to express a single and strong opinion and to deliver it to the intergovernmental conference, (applause) so i ask you, the chairmen of the largest european parliamentary groups, to tell our friends and colleagues in the plenary to make their voices heard, to make the conditions on which they will agree to sign the new pact on which europe is to be founded, heard. this is the appeal i make to you, because at this moment we all need the voice of the convention for a new europe. (applause from the left)
- thank you, mr president of the commission. i have received seven motions for resolutions on this subject, tabled on the basis of rule 37 of the rules of procedure. see minutes of the sitting. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday.
in writing. - (el) the report is correct in commenting on the dangers facing small-scale fishing (which accounts for 75% of community fishing vessels) with the implementation of the new common fisheries policy, which will result in the loss of 28 000 jobs, economic stagnation and desertification of coastal areas. but the report does not question the policy that is producing the difficulties it is only describing. on the contrary, it regards them as a fact and is only interested in moderating their consequences, slowing down the rate at which they occur and 'controlling' losses. the rapporteur is under no illusions about the commission's intentions and calls on the commission to examine its options. we don't have that kind of illusion. the fisheries policy as it is applied and the proposed policy, as it stands or with some amendments, prove that the eu is on the path of entrusting the exploitation of fisheries resources to large companies. this is the direction taken by the financing measures for the demolition of small and medium-sized fishing vessels in order to eliminate small and medium-sized fishermen and further strengthen the fishing capacity of large vessels. the situation cannot be reversed by means of wish lists and appeals to the goodwill of the commission. only the fishermen themselves and their fight can overturn these policies and prevent their extermination.
in writing. - (el) i voted in favour of the rothley report, despite the fact that the amendments proposed by the gue/ngl, the greens and the liberals were rejected yesterday, for the reasons stated by mr cox. this is clearly an insufficient step towards transparency and the settlement of a problem which is an affront to the european parliament. the amendment proposed by the socialist group to delete paragraph 5 referring to the bureau's decision on travel expenses, etc. raises questions about the real intentions of the european parliament and, to say the least, causes confusion.
in writing. - (el) i voted in favour because, following the sinking of the prestige off the spanish coast and the enormous ecological disaster, immediate protection against single-hull oil tankers is needed by imposing an immediate timetable for their withdrawal from circulation. the governments of the fifteen should support these measures and ignore the pressure exerted by any shipowner who, out of self-interest, is opposed to the necessary regulations to protect the seas and beaches.
the european parliament, on behalf of the new democracy meps, in writing. - (el) our position in the final vote on the piecyk report was to abstain. we understand, of course, that the purpose of the withdrawal of single-hull oil tankers is to protect the environment by preventing further dramatic accidents at sea. we are of course in favour of this objective, as we have shown by voting in favour of all previous reports on the subject. but these final provisions seem to be the result of a political reaction, in the heat of the action, to the sinking of the prestige. this also explains the eagerness to see the eu move forward independently of the who, whereas everyone knows that in the field of maritime transport, which goes beyond european borders, international solutions are preferable. this is all the more so as the previous withdrawal schedule is not yet applicable. we therefore do not believe that the consequences of these provisions on the competitiveness of the economy have been seriously considered. in particular, greek shipping is hit hard, to the detriment of workers in the sector. by abstaining we express our deep scepticism of the position of the council of ministers and, more importantly, of the greek presidency, which should approach the problem with more coolness, especially as we greeks have more experience of these problems and our economy is more affected by these provisions.
in writing. - (el) the safety of ships, crews and the environment is an issue which cannot be addressed by piecemeal measures, however important, such as the mandatory double hull precondition for oil tankers calling at ports in the member states. a genuine safety policy must tackle the lack of responsibility on the part of shipowners, apply substantial measures against breaches of legislation, adjust operational positions to today's increased requirements and contribute to improving the living and working conditions of crews by safeguarding their rights and empowering their unions to intervene decisively. any provision must be introduced in the framework of the imo and the ilo, which should play a vital role in international shipping, while rejecting the philosophy of compromise with the interests of shipping. a typical example of how these interests are served at the expense of the environment is in the long transition periods, without any real justification in terms of security of supply, and in the exemption from double hull requirements for vessels over 500 to 600 tonnes. the eu promotes the absence of liability of shipowners in the best possible way. one example: the ship repair industry in greece, a country with one of the largest fleets in the world, has been virtually wiped out. only a determined struggle by the workers, the seamen and the regions concerned, especially the coastal regions, can achieve positive results against this policy.
- the next item is the report by mr oostlander on turkey's application for membership of the european union.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, the report by mr oostlander on turkey is one of many which have been submitted to the european parliament from time to time on the various aspects of the relations of this troubled country with the international community and the european union in particular. however, the oostlander report, in addition to its generally objective and balanced wording, is characterised above all by the clarity and boldness with which it points out and categorises turkey's persistent weaknesses, shortcomings and disadvantages in the areas of the rule of law, democratic governance, human and minority rights and legal international behaviour. this is something that should have been done long ago, instead of the practice of avoiding a crude description of reality, for various reasons of serving politics and other purposes, by showing a badly understood tolerance, by keeping two meters and two stations and by invoking false arguments such as the strategic importance of turkey, the shallow pretext of its transatlantic protectorates, or the alleged need to send positive messages to ankara - we heard this for the first time just a little while ago - etc. the counterproductive effects of this substantial embellishment of a situation which is altogether reprehensible and reprehensible are now obvious and, with all due respect, mr president of the council, should have disappointed even the most heterosexual apologists for the tolerant and approaching treatment of turkey, because neither the positive messages for years have led to a corresponding positive turkish response nor has european tolerance been properly appreciated by the turkish establishment, which on the contrary regarded it - and perhaps rightly so - as encouraging and accepting its policy, whereas if the european position had been expressed earlier with the same will as the dutch position, the more tolerant and approaching attitude of turkey to the european market would have been less likely and the less likely the prospects of european tolerance for turkey were to be. but because it is better late than never and with the slightest hope that ankara will finally grasp the real message of the european parliament and act accordingly, i wholeheartedly support the oostlander report.
mr president, on the occasion of the debate on mr oostlander's excellent report on turkey's accession to the european union, i would like to state once again that i remain a strong supporter of that accession. my position is based on the following reasons: firstly, as a greek, i would like this country, which is greece's neighbour, to develop and develop the creative capacities of its people within the democratic framework which the european union guarantees to all its members. i believe that the greek and turkish peoples will have the unique opportunity to work together in the common effort for a peaceful and prosperous europe and for bilateral solidarity and deepening of their relations. secondly, as a socialist i would like to see a democratic turkey that ensures the institutional safeguarding of all the freedoms of its citizens for their unhindered creative intervention in the development of their society according to their desires, aspirations, inspirations and the offer of their work. i believe that the economic and cultural development of turkey, as a consequence of the freedom of action of its citizens within a state governed by the rule of law, will be of many benefits to turkey itself, first of all, to the european union, and most certainly to the countries and peoples neighbouring turkey, who will be drawn closer to turkey, will understand it and cooperate with it. thirdly, there is a personal reason, mr president, why i am in favour of turkey's accession to the european union. i am convinced that military intervention in the political affairs of a country, whether direct or indirect, does not solve any problems. instead, problems and dead ends are piling up in their country. i have no particular respect or confidence in the military nationalists all over the world who regard all free expression and action as a military objective to be neutralised by all means, not excluding, of course, bans, imprisonment, torture and physical extermination. the european perspective of turkey therefore involves the return of the military to their barracks and their supervision by the political leadership that the people have democratically elected as their government. the european parliament has been very active in the fight against racism and xenophobia, and it has been very active in the fight against racism and xenophobia, and it has been very active in the fight against racism and xenophobia. the personal speech i mentioned above relates to the struggles and experience of that time. mr president, it is an opportunity for the turkish people to have a smooth transition to a fully functioning parliamentary democracy, democracy with all its accompanying parameters, without sacrifices and tragic consequences. the european challenge therefore also serves turkey's democratic perspective. turkey must interpret this challenge as a unique opportunity for its european path. it is in its hands, its political leadership wants it and the oostlander report sets the conditions so that there are no misunderstandings.
council - the special council on employment, social policy, health and consumers of 6 may 2003 adopted conclusions in which, after a careful examination of the situation regarding severe acute respiratory syndrome both within the european union and worldwide, and the various measures taken to deal with it, it was confirmed that it is of great importance to establish the situation quickly and to consider future actions. the council considers that the community epidemiological surveillance and control network for communicable diseases has proved to be a very effective basis for rapid information exchange within the union and for a coordinated response in which the acceding countries have been fully involved. the council, having recalled that the implementation of health protection measures falls within the competence of the authorities of the member states, confirmed the benefits of effective coordination of these measures through the committee of the epidemiological monitoring network. it also supported the guidelines for immediate and future actions agreed on 10 april by the epidemiological monitoring network committee, which are as follows: - rapid detection of all suspected sars cases through good surveillance, - protection of those at risk of infection from patients through effective isolation of sars cases in hospitals, including measures to protect nursing staff, - air travel, which has been a significant factor in the spread of sars, needs to be given special attention, in particular through standardised screening of passengers departing from affected areas, by providing advice to passengers on board aircraft and effective information to arriving airports from affected areas, - vigilance of both professionals and the general public and timely and accurate transfer of information from and to the who and other countries of arrival and departure, and in particular to the eea/eea countries and other countries of destination, are also of particular importance. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the council encouraged the member states and the acceding countries to fully implement the guidelines for immediate and future action of the monitoring network committee and to actively contribute to the establishment of a dedicated sars expert group under the monitoring network committee with a view to developing common ways and advice on health measures across europe. the council further stressed the need for continued cooperation between the member states, the commission and who and called on the member states to ensure, inter alia:- the rapid and effective diagnosis of suspected and potential sars cases and their appropriate isolation in hospitals,- the appropriate protection of nursing staff dealing with these patients,- the provision of guidance and information to nursing staff and the public,- measures that are consistent across the union, for the provision and collection of information and traceability from international travellers arriving from affected areas or international travellers departing from such areas,- the timely and accurate reporting and exchange of information with the who, the commission, air carriers and other countries. finally, the council encouraged the commission to continue to coordinate union action against sars, to review regularly the guidelines for immediate and future action, in particular in the light of advice from who, to consider the possible development of a general preparedness plan for communicable diseases and health threats, to coordinate and network the knowledge and experience of national laboratories, and to financially support research and development of validated diagnostic tests, therapeutic interventions and vaccines. the council reviewed the situation and developments at its meeting of 2 june 2003, took note of the commission's progress report on the latest developments in relation to sars and exchanged views on the current situation. all member states welcomed the commission's report and the initiatives already taken or planned in this field. the presidency stressed the importance of coordinating the exchange of information at european level, given the cross-border nature of sars.
thank you, mr president. the question i put was put before the decision was taken to convene the council of health ministers in may, and i should like to say that the president's answer was so full and extensive that it deprives me of the opportunity to put a second question.
council the council attaches particular importance to the implementation of the galileo programme under optimum conditions. the council welcomes the agreement reached after a very long period of time between the member states of the european space agency, which puts an end to the agency's difficulties so far in co-financing the galileo programme, thus making it possible to continue the programme and to address the concerns of companies which have already made, and will continue to make, significant investments in time, human resources and financial resources for studies, planning and programmes relating to the pre-development phase. the council also wishes to point out that it has no competence to interfere in the decisions of an intergovernmental body such as the european space agency, even if the vast majority of the states participating in it (13 of the 15 members) are also members of the european union.
mr president, i asked my question before this agreement was reached, which opens the way for the implementation of this very important programme, and i am glad that this happened under the greek presidency, since i am a greek myself, and i particularly appreciate the president who answered me. now that this obstacle has been overcome, i would ask the president to tell us what he estimates the amount of investment for galileo will be, whether all the member states of the european union will participate in it and in what proportion, when the process of promoting implementation will begin and when he estimates it will start offering its services, which is the most important thing, and whether these will only have a european or even a global scope. i would also ask him to inform us whether the united states' objections have been heard and whether, as the american side claims, there is indeed a risk that galileo will interfere with the american gps frequencies, which give priority to military needs.
council as the council replied to question h-0243/03 at question time in the european parliament's may part-session, as soon as the recent wave of arrests became known, the presidency, on behalf of the european union, issued public statements and took strong steps towards havana. in their bilateral contacts with the cuban authorities, the member states also strongly protested against the arrests and executions. the council welcomed the european parliament's resolution of 10 april, which reinforces the union's clear stance on these measures. at its meeting on 14 april the council adopted the following conclusions: the council condemns the recent actions of the cuban authorities, in particular the executions, the large-scale arrests of dissidents, the unfair trials and the arbitrary and excessive sentences imposed. it calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners. these recent developments, which mark a further deterioration in the human rights situation in cuba, will have an impact on the union's relations with that country and on the prospects for increased cooperation. the council is monitoring the situation closely. the union also supported a resolution on the human rights situation in cuba adopted at the 59th session of the united nations commission on human rights. in a general comment, the presidency of the union stated the following: the union condemns the widespread arrests, unjust summary prosecutions and arbitrary and excessive sentences imposed on many dissidents for peacefully expressing their political, religious and social views and for exercising their right to full and equal participation in public affairs. the union therefore demands the immediate release of these persons, whom it considers to be political prisoners, and also calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners. it also expressed deep concern at the continued repression of opposition members. the union strongly condemns the recent executions, carried out following summary trials of cuban citizens, and deplores the end of the moratorium on the death penalty in the country. these recent developments, which mark a further deterioration of the human rights situation in the country, will affect the union's relations with cuba as well as the prospects for increased cooperation. the union will monitor very closely violations of individual and political rights, which will continue to affect its relations with cuba. the union will continue to monitor the situation closely, in particular with regard to the possible appeal process against the sentences of the 78 convicted persons. i would also like to point out that the union is continuing its efforts to secure the immediate release of political prisoners and to ensure that in the meantime they do not suffer and are not subjected to inhuman treatment. as regards cuba's request to accede to the cotonou agreement, the cuban foreign ministry withdrew this request on 17 may.
council i have nothing to add to that. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative.
council who sent it? i have nothing else in mind, so i have no specific answer to give you at the moment.
mr president, i am struck that the honourable member is coming to the defence of people who have been arrested and put on trial because they have been proven to have collaborated for a fee with the united states representative in havana against their homeland, against socialist cuba, which is a beacon, a shining example for the peoples of america, and despite forty years of criminal embargo the united states has managed to ensure its people the highest standard of living and education throughout central and south america. the cuban revolution is not tolerated by the us imperialists, who are trying to overthrow it by any means, even by assassinating its leaders. i would like to ask the president-in-office of the council, who, as far as i know, agrees with what has been said by the previous speakers: what would the government of his country do if it were revealed that greek citizens were being recruited and paid by a foreign power hostile to greece to act against their country? would he give them a prize? what does this activity have to do with the exercise of human rights? how does he comment on the fact that the representative of the united states takes part in the conspiratorial meetings he organizes in havana and the diplomatic representative of greece ? how does it justify the european union's silence on the cuban detainees in the united states for revealing plans to assassinate fidel castro and other cuban leaders, and for not extraditing to cuba the cuban pirates who are at large in the united states? we are fighting terrorism!
mr president, i will not allow mr yanitsis to call me unworthy to answer! i asked some hot questions. his government is guilty, too, and he should have answered my questions with more respect!
madam president, i would first of all like to thank and warmly congratulate mrs fraisse for taking the initiative to mobilize and raise awareness in the european parliament and in all the relevant bodies on the very serious issue of the relationship between sport and women. the report is of particular importance and value in view of the 2004 olympic games and we hope that the proposals it contains will be taken very seriously by the athens 2004 organising committee. but i would also like to warmly congratulate the commissioner, who has responded immediately and positively to what the report proposes. indeed, commissioner, sport can be a very powerful tool in combating discrimination against women and, in particular, in tackling the under-representation of women, and i think that measures should be taken in this direction to increase the number of women in leadership positions at all levels of sporting activities, to support the personal and professional development of women in the field of sport, the organisation and management of sport, and at all levels of training and the organisation of sporting events. mechanisms should be established to ensure that young women have a say in the development of policies and programmes affecting them. the media should be encouraged to reflect positively and adequately the breadth, depth, quality and benefits of women's and girls' participation in sport; finally, the commission should support the achievement of the gender equality standards set by the international olympic committee in 1998 and implement the thessaloniki declaration, which marked the closing of a major international conference held under the greek presidency. as we approach the 2004 olympic games, let us turn the idea of women's participation into an important message of these games. let the olympic games be a true celebration of humanity, promoting the values to which women attach particular importance, the values of peace, democracy, equality, respect for diversity, dialogue between cultures, creative coexistence of people and the resolution of any differences by peaceful means.
mr president, this is the third time that i have been in the unpleasant position of denouncing an indirect threat against me in this parliament, namely by listing various slogans, particularly in relation to the cyprus issue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have already reported here in the house the first time that something like this has happened. the security authorities of parliament were contacted, my colleagues and i were examined, we gave all the information we had, but the phenomenon has now been repeated for the third time. yesterday, the security officer who came received these plans, which i consider threatening to me - i emphasize that i am vice-president of the joint committee cyprus-european parliament and perhaps this is the connection - and i wonder: are we safe in this parliament or can anyone enter and make any threats, and even without having anything to do with the member countries of the european union?
mr president, i too would like to warmly congratulate mrs jöns on her very important contribution to raising awareness in the european union institutions of the hot topic of breast cancer, not only by writing this excellent report but also by organising a report in the european parliament and a public debate with leading scientists from all over europe, including the commissioner responsible, mr byrne. in that public hearing we were saddened, disappointed and surprised to find that very few resources are available for research into diseases which affect women with particular frequency, such as osteoporosis, the consequences of menopause and breast cancer in particular. we have therefore found that more resources are allocated to diseases affecting mainly men, and i say this to my male colleagues, than to diseases affecting women. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the legal basis for the application of the directive. i would ask the european commission to look into this, because, as the figures mentioned by the commissioner and the other members show, one in eight women is affected by this terrible disease, which particularly affects those aged between 35 and 55. we, as the committee on women's rights, call for and demand more research into the causes, early diagnosis, prevention and treatment of the disease after it has appeared. we certainly acknowledge the efforts made by the european commission and i would like to thank you, commissioner, for the positive messages you have given us today about promoting measures and programmes with specific objectives, but above all for the fact that there will be an evaluation of the results and that you will take into account the proposals made in mrs jöns' report, in the recommendation you are planning for the member states and, finally, that you will also exploit the possibilities offered by new technologies and in particular the internet. i thank you very much for these positive measures you have announced.
mr president, i regret that due to the time we have a change in the agenda and my report will have to be moved to 3 p.m. i would ask, on behalf of my political group, that my report be voted on without debate, and that the commissioner make the statement which is outside the compromise package and concerns labelling.
in writing. -el) the commission proposal follows the 1992 revision and remains true to the philosophy of reducing intervention prices by 5.9% and of partially compensating for these reductions by direct aid to the surface. it serves the interests of the wheat trade and processing industries by guaranteeing them cheap raw materials. at the same time, the incomes of wheat producers are revised downwards, as the compensation is 50% and not 100%, prices and compensation remain constant and are not adjusted on the basis of average community inflation and, finally, the average intervention price is reduced through the proposal to abolish the monthly increases in the intervention price. the amendments proposed by the rapporteur of the european parliament are more positive than the commission's proposals, with the exception of the reference to durum wheat, which is however subject to different regulations. in substance, however, they are moving in the same direction as the commission's proposal and differ only on quantitative elements, without contesting anything and without proposing measures which would go against the basic philosophy of the commission. despite the relevance of its conclusions, this makes the report less effective and serves only as a veneer for a policy which favours the interests of multinational companies to the detriment of small and mediumsized farms.
in writing. -el) the aim of the commission's proposal is to reduce community production and increase imports from third countries. in the union and greece, rice is grown on pathogenic land for which it is difficult to find an alternative solution. we therefore consider the proposed quota of 203 000 hectares for greece to be unacceptable, which is less than the previous quota which we have more than covered. the proposed measures reduce the incomes of rice producers while increasing the profits of traders, who will buy their raw materials at ridiculous prices, since intervention prices will have a proportional impact on trade prices without compensating for these reductions, despite the commission's claims to the contrary. these allegations are also unfounded, since the compensation rate is calculated on the basis of the difference between the intervention price before revision and the private storage price after revision. although more positive, the rapporteur's amendments are in the wrong in relation to his objective conclusions on the state of the sector. the rapporteur rejects the abolition of intervention but accepts the draconian reduction of intervention prices by 50%, which in practice amounts to their abolition. it confirms the problem of the abundance of imports, but does not differ from the quotas proposed by the commission. apart from the fact that its proposals exacerbate the situation rather than significantly improving it, this is why we will not vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - (el) the proposals on the dairy sector perpetuate the unfair treatment of countries such as greece by keeping quotas at unacceptably low levels, exacerbating their dependence on dairy products and ruining producers through high coresponsibility levies due to the outrageously low quotas allocated to them. the eu prefers to increase intervention by removing surplus milk products from over-saturated markets, mainly in the northern countries, rather than directing the money spent on intervention towards meeting the needs of countries such as greece, which cannot even cover half of their domestic demand. it is scandalous that the quotas granted in compensation for the reduction in guide prices are increased in a higher proportion in the more developed countries than in the others. the proposals foresee an increase in quotas for greece of between 6 000 and 14 000 tonnes, while the increase for the netherlands is between 335 000 and 110 000 tonnes. the national livestock sector is doomed to stagnation and greeks are forced to consume imported pasteurised products because fresh milk does not reach the country in time, whereas there is potential to increase production and meet demand. we are asking for a fair redistribution of quotas, based on demographic criteria, consumption requirements and production potential. that is why we will vote against these reports, which are heading in diametrically opposite directions.
in writing. -the resolution is a brazen admission of what the eu means by 'cooperation' with the balkan countries. it also reveals to the most skeptical the reasons why yugoslavia was bombed and the motives behind the policy of dismemberment of that country. in the context of a clearly neo-colonialist policy, the european parliament calls on the balkan countries to comply with the principles underlying european unification and euro-atlantic standards, to make integration with the union their only prospect for the future, to reform their political structure and internal legislation and to condemn their past. it also urged them to ensure the establishment of a reliable system of prosecutions, criminal records and personal information, to ensure that their police services are trained to europol standards, to cooperate fully with the 'tribunal' for the former yugoslavia and to reform their education systems in line with european standards. these are the bases on which the greek government and the union base their policy in the balkans: the subjugation and abolition of any notion of national independence, in order to facilitate the penetration of monopolies and the plundering of countries and peoples. by voting against this scandalous text, the members of the greek communist party are insisting on the increasingly urgent need to strengthen the people's struggle against the eu's imperialist expansionism and against monopoly interests.
in writing. - (el) the members of the greek communist party voted against the report on turkey's accession to the european union because we believe that it will not benefit the workers and the turkish population in general. it will only benefit the turkish plutocracy and the eu. many believe that turkey's accession to the union will contribute to its democratisation. this belief has led to the customs union, the recognition of the candidate status, but not to the democratization of the country. the repression of the turkish people continues, and the dungeons are filled with political prisoners held in inhuman conditions. the arrests, torture and killings continue. the silencing of the political opposition goes as far as banning parties such as the communist party of turkey and hadep. dehap is about to be banned. the army continues to play a sovereign role, and the threat of a coup d'état is daily. the army still occupies 37% of cyprus. the rapporteur does indeed acknowledge most of the points mentioned above, but he welcomes the government's good intentions and proposes to speed up the financing of turkey with european taxpayers' money, which will probably be used to strengthen the mechanisms of repression. we condemn the hypocritical policy of the union, which is based above all on the protection of major interests, and we stand with those who are struggling in difficult conditions for democracy, peace and social progress in turkey, confident that radical changes will be brought about as their struggle intensifies.
in writing. the open method of coordination is a means of promoting community policies outside the framework provided for by the treaties. it consists of defining guidelines, transferring them to national policies and monitoring, evaluating and revising them. it is promoted as a voluntary coordination procedure and as a mechanism for the exchange of experience. however, the fact that it does not require any legislation at community level makes it particularly opaque and therefore ideal for promoting policies that are unfavourable to citizens or fall outside the eu's remit. from its introduction to the present day, it has been applied on many occasions to employment and social policy issues, research, business, education, immigration, asylum, etc. citizens of the eu member states are thus confronted with a flood of anti-worker measures (e.g. on industrial relations, pensions and the famous bologna process for universities), without realising that they come from the eu. the report under consideration not only fails to combat the anti-democratic nature of this procedure, but also tries to embellish it and to give it a democratic veneer. these are the reasons why the members of the greek communist party voted against the report, just as they voted against the proposal of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport. workers will not be fooled by eu policy, no matter how big the attempt is and how the union tries to convince them.
madam president, i wish to protest against the unacceptable attack by the greek presidency on cuba. it is an open intervention in the internal affairs of that country, an incitement to subversion and a paving the way for military intervention. the presidency is covering up the provocative activity of the us representative in cuba, where, as he admits, he is recruiting agents and distributing millions of dollars to act against their socialist homeland. while showing such sensitivity to the death penalty and human rights in cuba, he will sign two judicial cooperation treaties with the us on 25 june in washington. it thus hands citizens of member countries in handcuffs to the places where death row inmates are executed every day, where thousands are held without trial or defence, where cuban terrorists and hijackers are at large, where cuban patriots are held without defence for having exposed plans for american terrorist action against cuban leaders, not to mention the hundreds in guantanamo bay. what is it ? what do you mean, complicity? i'm sure it's both! madam president, the millions of cubans who recently demonstrated in havana in support of the socialist revolution, and the demonstrations of solidarity with cuba throughout the world, are giving a stunning answer to the would-be invaders and their european accomplices.
the kke is opposed to the adoption of a euro-constitution because it strengthens the imperialist eu at the expense of the peoples and for the benefit of the exploiters. the text of the convention, which was set up and operated in the most undemocratic way, silencing every left-wing voice, does not reflect the democratic achievements of the peoples. on the contrary, it shrinks them. the declaration of allegiance to a highly competitive social market economy also constitutionally institutionalizes capitalism. the abolition of the rotating presidency, the composition of the commission, the reduction of unanimity in decision-making, the definition of qualified majority, reveal that it is a redistribution of power in favour of the powerful and a further transfer of national sovereignty to the imperialist, european union centre. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the pretext of terrorism is used to create the conditions for new military interventions against the peoples of the world (without excluding the 'internal enemy'), and a special role is reserved for those member states with 'high military capabilities'. it's no coincidence that the only foreign minister is the foreign minister. we are confident that the people will not be deceived. the contradictions of capitalism are intensifying, inside and outside the eu. the popular struggle will grow stronger as the anti-people politics intensify and the edifice they have so carefully built will collapse.
mr president, for iran the concept of europe was first formulated, in contrast to asia, in the historical work of herodotus when he wrote about the attack of the persians against europe, which was then the greek city-states. i think it's rather late for revenge, and after all, revenge has been around since alexander the great. i am deeply concerned about the european union's policy towards iran. i am deeply concerned by the combination of these two decisions of the council on monday, which on the one hand raise serious questions about the implementation of non-proliferation in iran on the basis of its nuclear programme and, on the other hand, announce a general strategy which includes the possibility of using force in the event of violations of the principles of non-proliferation. i think we're playing with fire. i think we are putting a great deal of sleep into the very efforts of the iranian students, with whom the heart of most colleagues, i think, beats, and into the pretexts we are giving to the conservative regime to crush their rebellion. i think it requires a great deal of attention from the council and from mr solana and the commission. i would like to conclude by asking two questions. the first: as we ask iran to respond timely, fully and adequately, do we ask the united states government and the british government to respond if they found weapons of mass destruction in iraq so that we do not wage wars for nothing? the second question is: mr high representative, during your three days in greece, would you be prepared to read the tragedy of perseus of aeschylus in spanish?
the presence here of the two european union foreign policy representatives, whom i deeply appreciate, is a result of the necessity of the union's present functioning and not something like a peculiar twilight syndrome. this confirms the correctness of the choice to create a 'minister of foreign affairs' of the union, who i hope will not later function as janus, who according to mythology changed his face on occasion. in the last decade, we have increasingly seen the european union differentiate itself from the united states on important issues. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. in practice, this means that the european union must define its own autonomous strategy in order to redefine its relations with america on the basis of this autonomy and to correct its mistakes. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. clean bills make good friends. but what should be the basis for this strategy? in some positions of authority and a relationship of equality. equivalence, in this case, is the same as equivalence. what does " equanimity " mean ? that you have your own opinion, but you also have your own capabilities so that, if necessary, your opinion can be shaped into policy, negotiated and brought to fruition. we are in a new era. the so-called asymmetric threats complement older processes and crisis situations and thus the european union is effectively obliged to play a new international role. and the new international role requires a personality in matters of strategy. this personality can't be created by small movements. it must be the result of an international analysis, an international definition of its personality and its principles. i believe that we will do well and that mr solana's proposals will be the first step towards the union then becoming autonomous in its relations with all the powers of the world.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, we have recently had the closure of the palco factory, which was active in the clothing sector, and in this way hundreds of workers have been left on the street. in the face of this disturbing picture, we have two other facts that add, i think, to the concerns. firstly, there is the inevitable reduction of customs duties from the end of 2004 to the beginning of 2005 on imports from third countries and, secondly, there is the permanent situation where third countries, in particular pakistan and the far east, are giving overt or covert subsidies to their own textile industries. it is obvious that this situation must be addressed. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. firstly, we must establish a monitoring centre on our own side so that we can monitor the existence of subsidies from third countries and report them to the world trade organisation and wherever else it is necessary. secondly, we must make a systematic effort to introduce our own quality products into third countries, and we must deal with the various ways in which third countries try to circumvent this effort. thirdly, we must give weight to products which are counterfeits. the commission has already proposed a label which we should adopt. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the commission will not be able to accept them. this can be done both through the community support framework and outside the community support framework, particularly in the field of research and technology, innovation, madam president, in order to strengthen the sector in terms of competitiveness, which is the key word. i think the commissioner is moving in the right direction, but we should all encourage him to step up his efforts so that we can tackle the huge problem that seems to be before us.
mr president, i strongly recommend that the excellent leinen report be voted on. mr leinen's report is a historic contribution to the institution of the political party. we owe him a debt of gratitude. with this motion for a resolution tomorrow, european political parties are acquiring legal personality and strengthening the democratic character of the european union. i would like to thank mr leinen, mrs schleicher and mr corbett again for their kind reference to my earlier contributions. i'm not hiding my personal satisfaction. i also have to export the work that mrs schleicher did in the previous phase. the european parliament must consider the council of ministers' formulas satisfactory on both the issues at issue, both the minimum number of member states for the party's activities and the sensitive financing issues. the compromise amendments tabled, moreover, resolve any problems that may exist. the democratic benefits of the legal recognition of european political parties are many. i would like to say the following: the legitimization of the european institutions will be deepened. the legal recognition of european political parties is a valuable complement to the constitutionalisation of the treaties. the principle of solidarity between peoples at the level of society will be implemented in the field of european political parties through the effective political grouping of the national parties of the member states. the role of the european citizen will no longer be limited to voting in elections to the european parliament, but will be extended to involvement in european political parties. the european citizen will become an active citizen. in the matter of funding, there is transparency and protection of the party institution from unknown or questionable financial sources. mr president, only with the institution of european political parties can the process of european integration finally become our affair, that is, the affair of the european citizens. i would like to conclude by congratulating the greek presidency, the excellent diplomats mathioudakis and venizelos, and by informing the house of the personal interest of president costas simitis, who, as a politician and as a scientist, paid great attention to the institution of political parties. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. - (el) we are once again witnessing, as the report shows, the failure of european regional policy and the lack of prospects for its future application, especially in the weaker countries after enlargement. not only have the objectives of economic and social cohesion not been achieved and development inequalities not been reduced, but on the contrary inequalities are worsening, even within member states, where unemployment is rampant and the socioeconomic fabric of agricultural, mountainous and peripheral regions is unraveling. a typical example is greece, which was and still is the poorest of the 15 countries, marked by deep internal regional disparities and having the sad privilege of having 9 of its regions among the poorest regions in the eu. moreover, greece repaid 46.4% of the subsidies related to the financing of the richer member states through the import of know-how, capital goods, products and services, using the famous 'package gold mine'. in other words, we are digging a hole to fill another! thus, not only has greece not benefited from regional policy, but what is more, it has on the contrary mortgaged its future growth and national independence in exchange for a few subsidies, which have paid for work and studies of dubious effectiveness for its real growth.
in writing. - (el) the report submitted for debate is not an administrative one, but a purely political one. the proposal to create european political parties is not the result of a voluntary choice or agreement on action based on common ideological approaches. it is, on the contrary, aimed at winning acceptance of the reactionary and anti-people structure of the eu. in the eu's view, respect for the 'rule of law' is synonymous with respect for the dictatorship of monopolies, with the schengen agreement, the constant erosion of personal rights and freedoms, emu, part-time and fixed-term work and austerity programmes carried out at the expense of the population, with the sole concern of preserving the profits of large companies. the eu's ambition, by using blackmail and funding as a means of pressure, is to integrate its party formation conditions into its reactionary policies and thus to impose them. it is committed to permanent and institutionalised intervention in the member states to stifle the voice and action of political forces which are anti-imperialist and anti-capitalist in nature and which oppose the eu. the strategic objective is to devalue the class struggle at national and international levels in the consciousness of the people. a party is valid on the european and international scene when it is powerful in its home country. opportunist political configurations are reinforced, which put a brake on the radicalization of consciences, the search for militant expressions and actions, and lock citizens into reactions that are benign to the system. for all these reasons, the members of the greek communist party voted against the report and called for its withdrawal.
commission. mr president, i wish to begin by saying that this directive is fundamental for the functioning of primary markets in europe and for our aim to build an integrated capital market by 2005. for the commission, the prospectus proposal has two aims: to facilitate fund-raising for european issuers and to ensure adequate levels of investor protection. during the past two years this text has evolved significantly. there have been some important changes but the text maintains the necessary balance between facilitating for issuers and investor protection. the commission amended its proposal to take account of parliament's position. after first reading, 50 out of 62 amendments were taken on board by the commission in its amended proposal. the council's common position is broadly in line with this amended proposal. today i should like to congratulate parliament on its spirit of collaboration and its willingness to achieve convergence. we welcome the new amendments tabled by the rapporteur, together with the following members of parliament: mrs kauppi, mr ettl, mr goebbels and mr blokland. i am very optimistic that they will be accepted also by the council. i much appreciate parliament's constructive spirit and i should like in particular to pay tribute to the rapporteur, mr huhne, for all his work to get approval for this compromise proposal. in particular i should like to thank him for his report and for the 21 new amendments he has tabled. we can accept them in their entirety, as we consider that they improve the text of the common position and contribute towards achieving the goals set by the proposal. in this context, we reject the first 47 amendments tabled, since those which could be accepted – even partially or in spirit – by the commission are now covered by the 21 new amendments. regarding more particularly amendment nos 50 and 67, related to delegation of tasks from a competent authority to an exchange, i confirm that the commission in the review to be conducted in accordance with article 21 will also examine the conditions relating to the sunset period in the same article. the commission cannot accept amendment nos 69 to 71 since they provide for preferential treatment with respect to banks, and this is against the philosophy of the directive. such treatment would create discrimination towards other institutions and distort competition. that is something the commission objects to. finally, i should like to thank the greek presidency for its most valuable efforts to reach agreement on this matter now. it is an important and highly significant achievement. we must now use our remaining energy reserves to resolve the investment services, transparency and, of course, take-overs directives by the april 2004 deadline.
mr president, the proposed regulation has a twofold purpose. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year, and that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. the aim is to shield the stock market as a mechanism for raising capital and ensuring easy and quick profits for the monopoly groups. the proposals for action are not convincing at all. the commission's document mentions practices which will improve market credibility and help attract capital, i.e. reassure small investors so that they can loot their savings without any repercussions. after successfully sweetening them with a meager profit to gamble all their savings, operating on the logic of getting rich quick, they have also succeeded in emasculating them, forcing them to make gambling a lifestyle. so far not only has no effective control been taken, but the latest scandals have revealed that even these control mechanisms have acted as advisers in the methods of fraud, adopting the method of creative accounting, with the result that the savings of the popular strata, the funds of small investors and pension funds, have been diverted to the funds of the monopoly groups that enrich themselves in a parasitic way. the history of the stock market to date, and the control mechanisms associated with it, prove that it is the place where it is absolutely true that the big fish eat the small. the myth that government control can confine speculation to the temple of speculation itself has now been debunked. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
mr president, at the first reading of the directives now before us, the european parliament had fought hard for the integration of social and environmental criteria in public procurement procedures, reaffirming its role as a champion of the european social model and sustainable development. we are very sorry to see that the council's common position did not accept many of our amendments. that is why we must continue the struggle and stick to our original positions. respect for the european acquis in labour and environmental matters cannot be ignored in the public procurement process. the european union cannot ignore such commitments by the member states in public contracts when the quality of employment relations and, more generally, the quality of life is now a generally recognised objective of all its policies. furthermore, while we are keen to promote corporate social responsibility in the private sector, it is not consistent for member states to be indifferent to the issues at the heart of corporate social responsibility when awarding public contracts. thus, quality criteria can and must be taken into account by contracting authorities. in the same spirit, the breach by the applicant undertakings of the relevant obligations must be grounds for exclusion from the procedure. it is also important to stress that social and environmental criteria are not merely mentioned in the recital, but must be included in the regulatory text of the directive. the field of public procurement is also offered to take care of people with disabilities. we therefore welcome the amendment which introduces the obligation for public authorities to examine the accessibility of disabled people. in conclusion, producers must understand that by helping to implement european social policy they are not financially burdened but, on the contrary, they have economic benefits, such as their premium in public procurement contracts.
mr president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the leader of the socialist group in this parliament has just spoken about the odyssey of the greek presidency. it was indeed an odyssey that floated between the circe of the iraq war - to remind you that circe had the ability as a wicked witch to turn people into pigs - and the good goddess calypso of the convention for the future of europe, who can lead the european odyssey to the safe harbour of the europe of his dreams. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today, to the people of europe today, to the people of europe in the future. the greek presidency was obliged to deal with both the issue of iraq and the differences that this war has caused between the member states of the european union, as well as between the european union and the united states. at the february and march summits, by promoting and exploiting the role of the united nations, the european union gained a substantial presence on the international scene. public opinion in european countries has recognised and applauded the contribution of the community institutions. the european union is based not only on the principles of democracy but also on the principle of non-war in international relations. the member states, which have a very bloody history of conflict with each other, are no longer arming against each other. these principles must now be consolidated among the member states, the candidate countries and the wider area of europe and its new neighbours. the greek presidency has persistently sought to spread these principles to the new and sometimes dangerous areas of responsibility to which enlargement has brought europe. problems in sensitive areas, such as cyprus, which was once described by the foreign ministers of that area as a kind of powder keg in the eastern mediterranean, were dealt with methodically and with caution. cyprus, if there is the cooperation expected from the turkish side, which unfortunately has not yet been achieved but which we hope will be achieved, can be a model for the coexistence of two different nations in the same state. in the same spirit, the greek presidency has given particular prominence to the process of peace in the middle east. the current diplomatic procedures in this area are also the result of the initiatives of the greek presidency. in a broader sense, it is worth highlighting the guidelines for the formulation of a new european union strategy, elaborated in greater detail by the high representative at the thessaloniki council. the promotion of european peace-loving positions in the western balkans and the thessaloniki summit resulted in a major turning point in relations between europe and the western balkans. mr president, these efforts have certainly not made the world perfect, but we can say that thanks to them the greek presidency is leaving to its successor a task much easier, at least less difficult, than it would have been had it not been for the methodical, prudent and sometimes inspired work of the greek presidency. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, unfortunately, as we had predicted at the beginning of the greek presidency, during the past six months of the greek presidency decisions were taken which reinforced the anti-people, reactionary and aggressive character of the european union. the increase in the retirement age, the reduction of pensions, the privatisation of social security, the extension of part-time and temporary employment were promoted. in the name of competitiveness, the broad guidelines for the economic policy of the european union were adopted, with the main features being the anti-working class offensive to increase the profits of the monopolies. the citizens of the member states of the european union have been handed over to the united states, handcuffed, in the shameful judicial cooperation agreements. the greek presidency aligned itself with the us in its interventions in cuba, using iraq's weapons of mass destruction as a pretext, which proved to be nonexistent, and targeting oil to impose us global dominance. the european union, under the greek presidency, despite the unprecedented protests of our peoples, covered up and finally legitimized the savage attack by anglo-american troops and the occupation of iraq, with the known disastrous results for the iraqi people who, fortunately, are resisting. the european parliament has been a great help to the greek presidency, and i am sure that it will be a great help to the greek presidency in the future. in the name of combating terrorism, the further militarization of the european union has been promoted, with the completion of the creation of the euro-army for imperialist interventions, whereby, together with nato and the usa, the general strengthening of repressive mechanisms to shield the interests of big capital inside and outside the european union by the enemy peoples. the idea of increasing military spending to be reliable partners of the american imperialists with whom we are said to share common values has been advanced. the mid-term review of the cap was adopted, reducing and decoupling subsidies from production, with devastating consequences for small and medium-sized farmers, quality and the environment. the strengthening of the fortress europe was promoted by new persecutions of migrants and stricter asylum conditions. the signing of the enlargement of the european union marks a new ordeal for its peoples, it legitimizes the division of cyprus as a result of the invasion and occupation by troops of turkey, a candidate for accession. finally, the greek presidency adopted a text that is a travesty, the product of an assembly that was set up in an undemocratic way, and which reinforces the pro-monopoly, anti-worker character of the european union, the power of the powerful, the militarization of the european union in order to claim a more active role in the international imperialist arena alongside the united states. mr. smith and his friends are proud of all this. we are indignant and we are intensifying our struggle with the people against these policies. each of us, mr president, has been called.
mr president, the favourable comments which have been made in this chamber about the greek presidency, as well as the favourable comments made in the past about other presidencies, i think are the most decisive argument in favour of maintaining this system of rotating presidencies at the helm of the european union and, of course, not in favour of the one proposed in the new constitutional treaty, which has clear disadvantages. mr president-in-office of the council, we are here to give you a good-faith, constructive and frank critique of the work of the presidency of the council on the basis of your report. i shall concentrate mainly on the issues that were not advanced, not as an after-thought criticism but because it is good to remember those that were not so that we can also put them on a line to move forward. i would say that the backlog has been in the area of immigration, because in the conclusions of the summit there is not a word about the issue of setting up a european border guard corps, whereas the commission is absolutely convinced of this and has declared it. why this stagnation on such an acute problem? the issue of economic solidarity and equal burden-sharing in the field of immigration, which is also an important priority of your programme, has also been lost in the absence of a specific financial instrument as proposed by the commission. i would also say that the common european asylum system has not been institutionalized and, finally, we have no readmission agreements. what readmission agreements have been concluded? it is not possible to arrest 2 000-3 000 illegal immigrants from a country which has relations with the european union, and i am talking of course about turkey, and not accept their readmission. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to stress that the protection of the union's external borders would also help the area of foreign and security policy, which is suffering, because this is precisely the cornerstone of foreign and defence policy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the prospects for sustainable development in europe seem to be a distant hope. as regards the review of the cap, i think you will appreciate that the debate on the mid-term review was not completed, as a number of products were not included in the decisions. finally, as regards the future of europe, i would agree with president prodi that the constitutional treaty does indeed contain some very important and positive points, but it also contains some elements which give rise to great concern. and i start with your own phrase '...we share the future in a community of values' and i ask: how do we share the future? by dividing the countries into blocs of large and small, with the former having a greater influence on decisions? with a diarrhea? what are you talking about ? so, something that even the most basic executive in business and government knows leads to rivalry, confusion and ultimately inefficiency? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to comply with the treaty. in this context, how can the interest of the countries and, above all, of their citizens be maintained? and what community of values? the community, which is not the community model of the european union, but the intergovernmental cooperation? and finally, what values? the ones we dare not mention explicitly in the preamble to the draft constitutional treaty, offering the citizens whose support we seek the political education and values of a last-minute compromise?
mr president, in thessaloniki you raised the question of the western balkans and the prospect of their accession to the union. it's very good. but you didn't get a timeline. i am afraid we will not be able to cope with the new conflicts that are coming. secondly, the invasion of iraq is followed by a military occupation, with the logic of a military occupation, hoodlums, informants, etc. the occupation forces are building, as we learned yesterday, a new guantanamo. what is the political response to these gentlemen, whom you sometimes call your allies and some of whom are also members of the union? i didn't get it. i do not think we are solving any problems with the policy of appeasement of the allies. thirdly, you signed an agreement with the united states. the european parliament has accused you of being a democratic transgressor. the article you have chosen excludes parliaments, but it says that member states may object if their internal order requires it. greece will do it ? fourth and last, mr president: the european parliament has been given a very important role in the negotiations on the treaty of rome, and it is not only the european parliament that has been given a role in the negotiations, but also the european parliament, which has been given a role in the negotiations. question: how can we ensure that the politicization of european integration and the limited partnerships that can give impetus to those who really want to do something different against american flattening? will greece hold a referendum in an attempt to politicise this? i do not say this to minimize the positive aspects, but to remind you that politics is continuing and that there are very serious issues open to the continuation of political life in europe.
mr president, i too would like to wish that in a few years' time a greek prime minister will again be elected by the european parliament through the alternative presidency, which is a useful institution. i would like to thank mr yanitsis for the good cooperation we have had and, in the short time i have, to wish the president-in-office of the council and prime minister of greece to resolve, not in the hours remaining in his presidency, but in the days to come, an important issue which was also the subject of the letter sent to him by 90 members of the european parliament, namely the application of directive 70/1999 on fixed-term contracts. i would like to believe that, taking into account the positions of the commission, the european parliament and the decisions of the greek courts, the greek government will set a good example in this key area, which involves tens of thousands of contractors and where fixed-term contracts are being abused. there are still people who sign a one-day fixed-term contract for 15 years. i hope that the prime minister will take a positive view of this and i would like, if he can, to put this matter on his agenda.
mr president, when the president of the french republic, mr chirac, described the greek presidency as a brilliant one, he was not making a diplomatic speech but a historic one. i would like to mention just three of the many useful achievements of the greek presidency which justify mr chirac, allowing my national modesty to give way to my satisfaction as a european, especially today. firstly, greece had the misfortune, but europe had the good fortune, of the greek presidency coinciding with the enormous moral crisis, the moral challenge which the european union has put on the conscience of european citizens with the attitude of some of its members to the illegal war against iraq. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity. the greek presidency has not only succeeded in preventing this disintegration, but has also managed to express the european union in a unanimous speech that will certainly stand up to the criticism of tomorrow's historians. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the second major historical event during the greek presidency was the positive decision on the constitutional treaty submitted to the halkidiki european council by the assembly through its president. the text presented here is historic, it strengthens the european institutions, it consolidates the social state more than ever before, with a focus on the concept of full employment, for which george katiforis deserves special thanks, but it is not without serious shortcomings. some have already been mentioned by previous speakers. the european parliament, in the report which i have the honour of having jointly undertaken with president gil robles, will expose these weaknesses of the treaty. the greek presidency has respected the institution of the convention and its outcome and has thus politically - and this is important - placed the institution of the convention among the great achievements of european democracy. finally, mr president, i would also like to mention the historic fact that, after seven years of indecision, common positions were finally reached with the european parliament on the rules governing the operation and financing of political parties. this is extremely important for the consolidation of european democratic institutions.
president of the council. ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your comments and thoughts. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up. the first central issue you mentioned was the question of the new constitutional treaty and the convention. ladies and gentlemen, as president of the union, i have visited the 24 member states for the first time to prepare the halkidiki summit and to help conclude the work of the constituent assembly. i thought i had a good knowledge of the european space. i have noticed, however, that there are important differences, not only in social and political terms, which were obvious and well known, but also in the way in which the european union, european progress and european cooperation are understood. there were countries which have a completely different conception of the presidency from what you all have and from what has been or is in practice in the years that have passed. i do not believe that we can find a solution to european problems if we do not take account of these differences and do not seek compromises. the new member countries of central europe live with a past of oppression by the soviet union. they live in fear of such developments, they want to pay close attention to the european union's relationship with russia, they attach particular importance to security issues, cooperation and participation in nato. we also know that the old countries in the european union now have a different perspective, because they have seen that the european union has overcome these problems. so we need to compromise on all issues. and there are steps that need to be taken, whether they be small or large. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a good compromise, a good basis for further discussions to be held at the intergovernmental conference. the intergovernmental conference will be decided by the italian presidency, which will convene it, as we agreed in halkidiki, during october. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as you will recall, the european council had decided to conclude the work of the convention by june and insisted on this, as did the march summit and the extraordinary informal summit held in athens for this purpose. we therefore said in chalkidiki that, as long as this decision exists, the assembly should not continue its work by changing this text or this compromise which has been presented. mr giscard d'estaing said that the third chapter needs adjustments to the two preceding chapters, that the way of expression or the form that the third chapter has is a way of expression and a form that needs correction. it was therefore decided to extend the convention so that work could continue in the framework agreed, on the basis of what was agreed, and the third chapter could be brought into line with the previous chapters. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so i think a good job has been done and intergovernmental can finish on schedule. i would like to make a few comments on the report. it's the immigration issue. there's a lot of misinformation here. i asked whether or not the decision or discussion had been made on the single police force to guard the border. of course it was discussed. the three nordic countries and many central european countries have stated that, for constitutional reasons, they do not agree in any way with such a police and such a police is not possible. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the use of asbestos. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. but there is a misconception that decisions would be taken so that, for example, germany would give money to italy to deal with immigration. that's not what this is about. it was decided that there should be joint programmes throughout the union which, because they would be implemented in the mediterranean for example, or on the eastern borders of the union, would benefit certain countries. that's the weight distribution. joint programmes help those areas or regions where the problem exists, or those countries which have a particular need to deal with the overall problem. i would also like to stress, as regards readmission agreements, that, because it has been said that turkey has a readmission agreement with the union, it does not have a readmission agreement with the union. that is why we said that the union should make readmission agreements. and that is why we have decided that there should be a set of criteria for the implementation of these agreements. why can a country not cooperate with the union and not accept the return of migrants? i agree with those who have stressed that this policy must continue under the italian presidency, because we have taken a step, which i believe is important, but we also need to complete this step on asylum and immigration. the third point i would like to raise is the one concerning mr solana's proposal. mr wurtz has noted that this proposal by mr solana needs to be discussed, and we are in full agreement. mr solana has undertaken to work out his proposal by december and of course after that, as with economic and monetary union, so with security policy, whatever form it takes, and with defence policy, there needs to be a wider debate here in parliament and in the union. i think there is something very positive about mr solana's proposal. it is not general, it is specific and it correctly points out the risks. and these dangers exist from weapons of mass destruction because modern technology allows weapons of mass destruction to be built not with the technical means that were needed in the past. so, other countries can become such weapons and need to be prevented. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the prevention of terrorism is to monitor these developments, to control trade, to sign agreements to provide information. but there is prevention! there should be a policy for this, to prevent such situations! the commission has already made a proposal, a step forward, and i think we must continue to do so, because greece is convinced, as these visits have shown, that it needs a common defence and security policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be able to accept it. that would be funny. the next presidency, and we, greece, as a member of the union, must follow up the solutions that have been put forward, for example in the balkans, which a colleague mentioned. but, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that in order to have continuity, we must have a creative debate. i think that the greek presidency, and you confirm this with your judgments, has given a creative direction to the problems. why, what did we want? i want to close by reiterating our pursuit. we wanted to create a stronger europe and we followed the lisbon policies to make europe stronger, for example in the social and economic spheres. we wanted european cohesion, and that is why we have a policy in iraq. we wanted a european perspective, and that is why we worked on the constitution and the security policy. we wanted to show europe as a world power, and that is why our policy on the middle east, our policy with russia, the united states, japan and canada. i believe we have moved on and we have moved on because of your cooperation. we have made progress thanks to the great help of the european commission, which has made a number of proposals, thanks to the contribution of mr prodi, and we have also made progress, i believe, because something particularly positive has happened in this half-year: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. there is a need to create. we can't stay the same. the longer we stay the same, the greater the risk of losing what we had. to hold them and win, we must move on. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
president of the commission. mr president, mr prime minister, i will be very brief also because, as you, mr president, have rightly pointed out in parliament, you are eager to move on to new activities. there are two points, however, which i would like to touch on, because they seem to me particularly important and complete the speeches by the honourable members and the reply by prime minister simitis. the first concerns immigration: i have noted that this point has attracted the attention of a large number of members and i would therefore like to reiterate the long-standing principles which the commission intends to apply in this sensitive and primary area: the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. repression alone will not solve the problem of illegal immigration: this is a fact, a fact, and it is the principle of our action. however, our partners must cooperate responsibly in this action. secondly, solidarity between the member states. this is a difficult point because of the differences in perception of sensitivity which the greek prime minister has already put forward, but we must remember that after schengen the problem of immigration is a european problem which must be solved, and can only be solved, on a european scale. we are an economic space; we must learn to become a space of freedom and security as well: there is no other choice. thirdly, legal immigration must be facilitated and simplified. europe must remain a land of welcome, but in strict compliance with the law: no tolerance for new slave traders. finally, firmness should not be confused with inhumanity. our values of balance and respect must be pursued without exception; it is a question of civilization and it is a question of european identity. second thought, just as brief: mr wurtz raised - i think very appropriately, since other speeches followed - the problem of relations with the united states, of foreign policy, of europe's role in the world. i would like to say one thing about this: the bilateral meeting with the united states, with president bush, was of great interest, of great cordiality and also of clear presentation of our positions. one thing struck me, and that was: the european union is a great example of a country where europe can act as a united whole, as mrs maij-weggen said in her speech. america is ready to listen to us, ready to follow us. i can testify to the impression made on president bush by his presentation of our economic dimension, the number of citizens after enlargement, the characteristics of enlargement itself, how we have conducted this process in respect of democracy, how we have conducted the negotiation process: and i think that's the way to do it, to discuss this with every single country, with every single parliament, chapter by chapter, the pieces, the statutes of our democracy, so that we can really create a common democratic vision. this was, and is, a european vision that no one can take away from us. this is a step forward, this is the way of the expansion of democracy that we can take forward in the world: we're absolutely being heard on this because no one has ever done an experiment like this. the other aspect that has impressed and still impresses is the role of the euro. many of the problems and issues we face today stem from the fact that the euro is beginning to have its effects and consequences: and it's not like we thought, it's not like many skeptics thought, and it's not like the reality of things is telling us. when, as in the debate with the united states, i note that well over half of trade with russia and other countries is now in the euro, this is a driving force, which will not fail to affect sectors which are now outside its sphere, such as energy or other sectors, because it is the force of things that brings us to this level. well, at those moments europe is listened to, at those moments europe is a political reality and not just an economic reality, even if it is purely economic aspects. finally, we were heard when we set out the future strategy for the balkans, that is, to solve definitively a problem to which the united states contributed so much but which at a certain point they stopped because they could not do otherwise. europe then offered a final solution: it offered the political solution, the solution that closes one of the most serious problems in contemporary history. the european union is strong in these moments, in the moments when it makes its voice heard, in those problems on which we have a united voice. that is why the convention must bear these facts in mind, must push forward the discourse of majority decision-making, must ensure that europe can increasingly speak with one voice. it is important that it emerges and is accepted, even if in a playful way, almost with a smile, that neither the wisdom of old europe nor the ardor of young america are, alone, sufficient to save world peace: you need one and you need the other. that is why, in my view, the guarantee of peace lies precisely in a close and strong relationship with the united states: but we can only maintain that relationship with dignity and strength, and we have dignity and strength in areas where there is no right of veto, where our will can be formed as in all other cases of democracy. that is the point i wanted to make. and i would like to end with a thank you, once again, to kostas. it is written in sophocles' antigone: "a principle of man is shown". i don't know if my now-reminiscent greek has it right, but it means something very specific: the exercise of power tests a man's nature and, dear president and prime minister, your nature has passed this test. (applause from the left)
- thank you, mr president-in-office of the council. i have received six motions for resolutions on the greek presidency, tabled on the basis of rule 37 (2). the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. the following shall be considered as a written declaration:
- ladies and gentlemen, i would like to inform you that our dear friend and former colleague, pier ferdinando casini, now president of the italian chamber of deputies, is in the official gallery. we welcome him and look forward to working closely with the italian parliament... (applause)... to ensure the success of the intergovernmental conference under the italian presidency. we also thank him for his efforts in the context of euro-mediterranean cooperation. mr frans weisglas, president of the second chamber of the netherlands, was also in the official gallery. he visited the european parliament to meet with colleagues. we warmly welcome him and wish him every success in his contacts here. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. - (el) we are categorically opposed to the racist and fascist perceptions contained in mr camre's statements, which are the cause of this request for the waiver of his parliamentary immunity. we condemn them and we fight them. the condemnatory statements of the member in question are intolerable, provocative and humiliating to a large group of practitioners. however, they were made while he was in office and form part of his political activity. woe to us if we end up lifting parliamentary immunity, the very purpose of which is to guarantee free and unlimited expression and movement of ideas when someone expresses views that run counter to our own political convictions. what is the purpose of parliaments and members if we deny freedom of speech in practice? the content and quality of each member's ideas can only be judged by their constituents. the members of the communist party of greece condemn the views of mr camre, but we strongly defend freedom of expression and the right of everyone to express his opinion freely, even if we are opposed to it. let us remember what voltaire said: "i disapprove of what you say, but i will defend to the death your right to say it". that is why we oppose the waiver of mr camre's parliamentary immunity.
the rapporteur. madam president, the two regulations we are discussing today are added to a series of union legislation on genetically modified organisms which concerns not only their restricted use but also their deliberate release into the environment, novel foods and novel food ingredients, the mandatory labelling of soybeans and genetically modified maize. these regulations provide a body of legislation, providing rules on the circulation and disposal of food and feed products consisting of, containing or produced from genetically modified organisms. in addition, the necessary information is given to consumers so that they are aware when they want to buy a product. so when a food is made up of, contains or is produced from genetically modified organisms, the words 'this product is made up of, contains or is produced from gmos' will be on the packaging. the council's common position supports the proposal for a regulation on which i am rapporteur, on the traceability and labelling of genetically modified organisms and products and the traceability of food and feed, and amending directive 2001/18 of the european parliament, and the commission's proposal, in particular the provisions aimed at the effective implementation of the regulation. in this way, the council is seeking, mainly on the basis of traceability, to ensure the smooth functioning of the market, a high level of consumer protection in cases where it is not possible to apply analytical methods to distinguish between conventional products and products produced from gmos with the following elements: the introduction of systems for the identification of genetically modified organisms by the issuance of a unique identifier, the obligation for undertakings to transmit information on the identity of the product, the obligation for undertakings to retain further information for at least five years. i therefore believe that the rapid adoption of this regulation without going through the conciliation procedure with the council is what we are asking for. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the labelling of genetically modified organisms are applied in the member states. i would also like to stress that, as far as the question of crop blending is concerned, we are talking about food and feed here, and we are therefore calling on the european commission to develop guidelines for the coexistence of genetically modified and conventional organic crops. finally, i think it is useful to add the creation of a register - this is in the amendment - for the publication of technical guidelines on sampling and testing methods, because it enhances transparency and helps to ensure a coordinated approach and effective application of the regulation. the rapid adoption of that regulation, as well as of the regulation on genetically modified food and feed, ensures that consumers are informed about food and feed produced from genetically modified organisms so that they can choose a product after being informed in advance. this will also lead to the lifting of the de facto moratorium on the approval of new gmos and the avoidance of a trade war with the usa, canada, argentina, egypt and other countries. i am of the opinion that europe is lagging behind in these new technologies and biotechnology, as described in the council conclusions and the road map, and the importance of this development, with these two reports today and the vote tomorrow, will be important for europe, because we are significantly behind in this promising 21st century technology compared to our competitors, with negative consequences at all levels: economic, social and even environmental. i therefore propose that we proceed to the vote on these amendments, which do not change the substance of the legislative text, and therefore avoid a compromise and have these two regulations come into force as soon as possible. the problem of not being able to keep track of the speed of biotechnology development has been what has really led to the reservations, and i think it is time for the european union to move in a positive way towards this technology. i think we should proceed to vote on a text which is as close as possible to the council's positions.
madam president, by adopting proposals for limits on the traceability of genetically modified organisms in raw materials we are only opening the door to the gradual but steady release and circulation of genetically modified food and feed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the regulation on maximum contamination limits creates a de facto situation with which we are fundamentally opposed, firstly because it transfers the responsibility to the consumer, who is not in a position to assess the risks of food derived from or containing gmos, and secondly because it opens the way to the crushing dependence of farmers on the us, mainly multinational biotechnology companies, which have exclusive rights to produce and sell genetically modified seeds and the agrochemicals that accompany them. the use of gmos will also lead to genetic erosion of non-genetically modified varieties, with unpredictable effects on biodiversity. the fight must be fought against the ban on the import of products from gmos, whether they come from raw materials or contain gmos, and not against the conditions under which these products are to be traded and traced. finally, we are totally against the use of gmos and the 'not the best' logic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
commission. - this question concerns an incident in the air, if i understand correctly, between greece and turkey. this is an incident for which the commission has no specific information, apart from what has been reported in the press. with the caution that such a statement requires, we consider that this is an incident that should be placed in the context of the greek-turkish dispute over the aegean sea. we hope that this question of national airspace, as well as the question of territorial waters and the continental shelf - which, to my knowledge, have been discussed by the two countries for some time - will be resolved in the talks which have been resumed between the greek and turkish authorities. as regards turkey, as a candidate country for european union, it has committed itself to satisfying a number of criteria and the commission, in answer to your question, mr zacharakis, recalls the principle of the so-called peaceful settlement of border disputes. this is what we have always done, in accordance with the criteria of the conclusions of the 1999 helsinki european council. we have made this issue a specific priority of the revision of the accession partnership with turkey, which was adopted in may 2003. so, as with other issues which involve progress on the turkish side, we will be following developments on this issue closely and will be presenting a detailed assessment in the regular report which we are due to publish at the beginning of november.
- mr president, i should like to apologize to myself and to the commissioner for not being present when you called my question. i was supposed to attend another parliamentary meeting.
commission. the commission has examined with due attention the issue of the application in greece of a mathematical formula to be detect abnormally low offers in the context of public tenders. following a request from the commission the hellenic authorities notified the relevant national legislation in january 2003. while proceeding with its assessment the commission received a new complaint on the same matter, which gave a better picture of how the whole system of the mathematical formula is applied in practice, since the latter complaint did not concern the legislation in abstract, but made reference to concrete examples of its application. on the basis of this new information, the commission services addressed a letter to the competent hellenic authorities in late april 2003, asking them to take a position on specific issues raised in relation to the compatibility of the hellenic legislation and practice with community public procurement legislation and the relevant jurisprudence of the court of justice. the commission services have very recently received a request on behalf of the hellenic authorities to extend the time given to them to reply to this new letter until 30 june 2003, in order for them to give a comprehensive answer on the whole issue and in view of certain changes that they envisage concerning the relevant legislation. the commission services have granted this extension and now await the answer of the hellenic authorities. once they receive this reply and the changes that the hellenic authorities propose to their national legislation regulating the mathematical formula for identification of abnormally low offers, they will come to a final assessment of the compatibility of the system applied in relation to community public procurement legislation. the formula in question is so complicated that even greek experts have great difficulty in understanding how it works.
commissioner, thank you very much for your answer. i would like to ask you whether it is your preliminary assessment that this mathematical formula really is compatible with community law. i cannot see why the greek authorities proceeded, as you said, to change the law, as the greek parliament already has the capacity to deal with this. i would like, therefore, to have your preliminary assessment. also, although this was a formula for avoiding very low offers, it had a damaging effect on the overall assessment of public works, owing to the very small percentage of the original amount intended for the public works concerned.
i suggest. the council is fully aware of the difficulties caused by the travel restrictions imposed by the israeli authorities on european citizens residing in the palestinian territories, a problem to which the honourable member referred. these restrictions are in no way justifiable. as in the past, the european union, and now the presidency of the council, will use its frequent contacts with the israeli authorities to stress the importance of the free movement of citizens of european countries, with european passports, who intend to travel to and from the occupied territories.
thank you, chairman. his answer is very positive. i would like to say that this concerns a great many people with european passports, including women and children, italians, greeks, people of other european union nationalities who have married palestinians. i would like to see what he said put into practice, that is, at the first opportunity and taking into account the friendly attitude of the italian government towards israel, which has even expressed the wish that israel should one day become a member of the european union, to put this matter forward urgently so that a solution can be found quickly to the very difficult situation they are facing.
mr president, you said that the council did not discuss the legal nature of the intervention in iraq, but the greek presidency, in its statement of 16 april, in fact legitimized the anglo-american intervention - an invasion, i would say - and the council of thessaloniki took a similar position. this is clearly contrary to the sentiments of the peoples of the member states of the european union, who have demonstrated in all countries against this murderous attack. the council is not concerned about the discrepancy between its actions and the people's sentiments?
i suggest. i shall certainly take note of what the honourable member has just asked me and, if it is admissible, i shall submit a written reply.
mr president, i agree with mrs izquierdo that the president's answer was not the answer that should have been given. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to return to a more fundamental problem. i heard today your prime minister, mr president, mr berlusconi, who said that he was opposed to the attack on iraq, that he was opposed to the disregard for the un and that in any case he did everything he could to prevent these evils. but today, we have an occupation. and it is an illegal occupation which continues despite the vigorous resistance that the iraqi people are putting up every day. i want to ask what this presidency will do, since it was supposed to be opposed to this story as it unfolded, although i have a different opinion about your government's stance, to stop this evil? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the american officials themselves say that these weapons do not exist. so, other reasons. what will the italian presidency do? will you act to stop this criminal occupation?
- the common position of the council on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the establishment of a european space agency (c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0220/2003 - c5-0202200/2003 - c5-0202200/2003 - c5-0202200/2003 - c5-0202200/2003 - c5-020220/2003 - c5-020220/2003 - c5-020220/2003 - c5-020220/2003 - c5-020220220/2003 - c5-0220220/2003 - c5-020220/2003 - c5-020220220/2003 - c5-0220220/2003 - c5-0220220/2003 - c5-0220220/2003 - c40/2003 - c5-02-0220220220/2003 - c40/2003 - c40-02-02202-02-024-02-02-02-02-02-02-02-02-02-02-02 - the recommendation for second reading (α5-0225/2003), on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the provision of air navigation services in the single european sky (the 'service provision regulation') (15853/2/2002 - c5-0137/2003 - 2001/0235 ((cod)) on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the organisation and use of the airspace in the single european sky (the 'airspace regulation') (15852/32/2002 - c5-0139/2003 - 2001/0236 ((cod)) and on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the interoperability of the air traffic management network (the 'interoperability regulation') (director-general: mr sanders) on the interoperability of the european airspace) (15852/32/2002 - c5-0237/2003 (director-general: mr sanders))
mr president, it is obvious that the technical issues involved in this matter have been sufficiently analysed, so i will concentrate on the political aspect of the matter, to say that the case for a single european sky is driven by two different and quite conflicting rationales. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport system is not affected by the consequences of the accident. one of the main reasons for this situation is the continuing increase in air traffic and, above all, the absence of a common airspace management system in the european countries. the other reasoning reflects the concern of some member states who would like to ensure their rights in their airspace, particularly in relation to their defence obligations and needs, and the possibility of conducting military exercises in that airspace. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has adopted the first line of reasoning. as in many other areas of european policy, the choice of a genuine community policy and a single regulation is considered to be more efficient. that was the logic of the first reading. the council, unfortunately, relied entirely on second-guessing. worries and doubts were prevalent. the council attached particular importance to matters of public policy, security and defence. in this way, he has effectively renewed the commission's proposal and, of course, his position has nothing to do with the position of the european parliament at first reading. if the council were to agree to the objective of a single european sky, it would have to adopt a different strategy. otherwise, he would have to honestly say he disagrees with the project. it is obvious, mr president, that we are heading towards a process of reconciliation. in this process the council must show flexibility. i firmly believe that there are ways of taking substantive steps towards the single european sky without affecting national sensitivities and vital interests. where there's a will, there's always a way!
the commission (es) mr president, i would like to thank very sincerely all the comments and speeches that have been made, which demonstrate the importance that your honourable members attach to this initiative, one of the most ambitious of the prodi commission. i would remind you that in the field of aviation, over the years, we have been taking giant steps towards the pooling of areas which until now had been the exclusive competence of the member states. for example, in the field of aviation safety, with the european aviation safety agency, which will allow us, for the first time, to have common certification of aircraft in europe and which will allow us, among other things, to be able to certify the airbus 380. for example, when we propose new security standards in the fight against terrorism and other types of attacks, shared and common to all the states of the union, with checks and controls to ensure that these common standards are met by all. for example, when we finally get a mandate to negotiate with the united states on a common aviation area between the united states and the european union. and the last great initiative is precisely the single european sky, which facilitates all the actions to which i have referred before, particularly the negotiations with the united states, also in the field of safety and the european aviation safety agency, but which will also allow us, looking ahead, not to be behind europe this time around; i am referring to the question of the new definitions and new concepts of air traffic management for the year 2020, where clearly the possibility of having a single sky, where we will have integrated, harmonised and common systems, allows us to have a critical mass so that europe can negotiate properly with the united states, which, through an equivalent initiative, is working in this sector. the star 21 initiative is a key initiative for the future. key to european aviation safety and to european technology, technological development and industry. ladies and gentlemen, reference has been made to eurocontrol. eurocontrol is being considered and will be involved - we have said this from the outset. he has been involved in all the meetings we have had on the single european sky in the high-level groups and throughout this time as a knowledgeable expert. the commission does not intend to create an alternative system to eurocontrol. it's not our job. but we cannot have the commission legislate on the basis of decisions taken by a body which is completely outside the community, such as eurocontrol, which is, moreover, an intergovernmental body with a number of countries which are not members of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is one thing to use, to hire and even to sign agreements with eurocontrol, so that it is the expert to whom we will turn and who will provide us with certain types of information, documents and even proposals, and it is another thing to commit ourselves to legislate or act on the basis of what an intergovernmental organization where third countries are involved says. we simply cannot, ladies and gentlemen. the next question is amendment no 4 by mrs sanders-ten holte on the issue of air traffic controllers' licences, which i have of course taken up again. we accepted it - as i have said before - for the simple reason that it was in our original proposal. it was the council which withdrew it from its common position and it is a pleasure for the commission to bring it back because we believe that all air traffic controllers should be given a common qualification and training at european level, even if there is then a specialisation in the specific area in which they have to operate and work. as for liberalization, i do not know how to say it, because i have said it so many times. we're not liberalizing anything here. where do we say that this subject is going to be treated like telecommunications? if you show me where we say it, i'm willing to correct it, for the simple reason that we don't say it anywhere. if so, i would be concerned, as would your honours. as one of the speakers said quite well a moment ago, there are powers here which are specific to the public sector, to police activity, and obviously there cannot be more than two operators because we would create an undesirable situation. so there is no liberalization and no competition. it is quite another thing that when using certain services, for example to obtain weather forecasts, one can turn to the national weather centre of the country in question or to the weather centre of another state or to the provider of the most appropriate data. that's another story. but as far as traffic and air traffic control are concerned, we are not raising any of these issues: neither liberalization, which makes no sense, nor privatization. it is true that privatization, as one of the honourable members has said, has been carried out by a state on its own in a rather peculiar way. i shall end by referring to the two problems which, in my view, will form the heart of the conciliation debate. mr jarzembowski said that he was asking me for courage and some people have said that it seemed to them that we were timid in the commission. the commission has been very bold, very forceful and very rigorous in its approach to this matter from the very beginning. but we are talking about a question of possibilities, realities, emergencies in a complicated field in which we are all aware that one thing is the first pillar and another is the defence aspects, where we have no capacity to intervene. i think that the council's commitment - and some of the honourable members have said so - to flexible use in relation to civilian and military use is a very acceptable commitment. it is very likely that in the future this commitment and this formulation will evolve. i'm sure, your honours, but this is the first step. let us be aware that we are making progress, that this is the first step and that a change is taking place which i dare say is almost revolutionary. i therefore ask you not to adopt amendments which would alter the council's commitment to the civil and military use of airspace. it is a very delicate compromise, and its breach could indeed create serious problems, as mr watts was saying a moment ago. as regards the functional blocks, i understand what you are saying. i think that the two problems can be combined here: the guarantee of the states, which retain their powers and their capacities, with the concern for a coherence of the whole global concept. i think if the council is flexible, there is room for us to work. the member states must of course agree, but the group which is with the commission will give coherence to the whole and to all the blocs that arise. in that sense, perhaps some of your amendments will facilitate that path and i hope that we can move forward in this way. in any case, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr fava and mrs sanders-ten holte, once again for their work and all the speakers for their speeches and ask them not to go beyond the council's commitment to flexible use, because i know that there is no room for manoeuvre. that would jeopardize the whole agreement, which is quite fragile, as you know very well, in an initiative which is absolutely urgent and necessary.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the agenda calls for the debate on the recommendation for second reading (α5-0213/2003) by mr caveri, on the council's common position with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing an interim transit system for heavy goods vehicles transiting through austria for 2004.
the commission (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in this complex debate we have reached the important moment when the european parliament is going to give its opinion on the council's common position. they will probably support the recommendation to adopt at second reading the amendments already adopted at first reading, with the aim of starting the conciliation procedure quickly, as mr van dam has said, taking over from mr caveri. i would like to thank mr caveri, mr van dam and the whole committee for their work on this difficult matter. as you know, the objective of reaching a swift settlement is fully supported by the commission, since the current system expires on 31 december 2003. however, it will be necessary for the various parties to make efforts to reach a compromise solution and, in addition, for the austrian authorities to show a certain degree of flexibility. otherwise it will be impossible to find a solution before the end of the year, with the consequences that this may entail. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in this situation the commission must respect the commitment given on 31 december 2002, confirmed on 28 march 2003, and therefore reject most of the european parliament's amendments. i would like to assure the honourable members that the commission is prepared to be open to amendments such as the geographical coverage of the system, the modalities of its application to the candidate countries and others, and in any case to be flexible enough to achieve in the conciliation area an agreement which we all want and will work to try to achieve, although we see that it is very difficult, because the differences between parliament and the council are frankly important.
mr president, in its first reading the european parliament adopted a proposal which, i believe, regulates the matter in a satisfactory way, without ignoring the justified austrian sensitivities on the subject. the council has, paradoxically, proceeded with the common position as if parliament did not exist. in a spirit reminiscent of the old days, it adopted a common position despite commissioner de palacio's recommendations to the council to take account of parliament's first reading and ignored the european parliament, which is now, of course, obliged, following this unacceptable position of the council, to confirm its position at the first reading. so, necessarily, things are being brought to the process of reconciliation. i hope that the council has taken parliament's message and is prepared to have a meaningful debate in the conciliation process. what is our purpose in the conciliation process? we obviously don't want to isolate austria. and why we have a very good cooperation with our austrian colleagues, but also why it is not good to isolate countries. as i said to the committee, and i repeat it here, when the bell rings for someone today, we must not forget that tomorrow it may be us for whom the bell rings. so we must be moderate in our attitude. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. there are countries which have vital interests in this matter: germany, italy, my own country, greece. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union. the treaty also speaks of the free movement of persons, capital and goods. we have a single market, the principles of which must be respected. and they should be respected in this case as well. of course, we're ready to negotiate a transitional arrangement. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in wine and spirits, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, is a step in the right direction. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the council.
the commission (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mr lisi, the rapporteur, on his excellent work and in particular on the very constructive compromise amendments he has proposed on some of the most contentious issues and which i hope will lead to a positive outcome in the conciliation procedure. i am glad that parliament largely accepts the council's common position, because it is a balanced text which pursues the objective of protecting passengers without, therefore, forgetting the interests of industry, an industry which we know is not in its best days. for this reason the commission supported the common position, although we would have preferred compensation of a higher amount, as the honourable members are well aware. fortunately, parliament is not proposing to reduce these compensations, because we believe that they are the minimum necessary to encourage airlines to look for volunteers instead of directly denying boarding to passengers against their will. i would like to inform you that the commission can accept amendments nos 8, 10 and 11 on cancellations and delays, which simplify the text and remove possible problems of implementation, while at the same time offering passengers an overall level of protection similar to that of the common position. we also accept amendments nos 12 and 14, which help to make the text clearer and more coherent by harmonizing the kilometre bands, and amendments nos 13 in part, 16, 19 and 20. on the other hand, we cannot accept amendments nos 1 to 7, 9, 15, 17, 18 and 21. i would like to say specifically that paragraphs 1 and 9 would exclude passengers on package tours from the scope of the regulation. the package travel directive does not provide this level of protection and excluding package travel would result in two levels of protection for passengers facing the same difficulties and perhaps sitting together, side by side. this is hardly something that could be explained to the public and to consumers. in conclusion, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am glad that, apart from the question of package tours, parliament and the council share a great deal of their views. i would like to thank mr lisi in particular for the work he has done and for having secured these compromise amendments, which i believe will facilitate that reconciliation quickly.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr lisi on the excellent work he has done. secondly, passengers who are shocked to learn that they cannot travel even though they have a ticket, or that their flight has been cancelled at the last minute, must obviously be given adequate legal protection by the european union and our own legal framework. we are making a lot of progress in that direction. the european parliament has taken a global approach in its first reading to this need, but it has also not ignored the particular interests of airlines and tour operators, particularly at this critical juncture when both air transport and tourism are being affected. the council then adopted a common position which takes account to some extent of the european parliament's position. for this reason, as the rapporteur rightly said, we are concentrating on three essential issues in the second reading: firstly, the right to claim compensation, not only from the operating air carrier towards the travel agents or other persons, but also from those who have incurred costs or suffered damage vis-à-vis the operating air carrier; secondly, the deadline for informing the passenger; and thirdly, the issue of mileage bands. but there is also the question, raised by the rapporteur, of amendments nos 1 and 9, in particular, concerning tour operators, whether they are covered by the directive or are given special treatment. my view on this is that at this stage it is better not to accept these amendments as they have been passed by the commission, because we must also take into account the demands of consumers, of travellers. we cannot ignore them and i do not think it is easy to explain to them why in this particular case those who travel in this way should be treated differently, worse than other passengers. i therefore agree with the rapporteur.
madam president, i too would like to start by congratulating our rapporteur, mrs ghilardotti, on her very important contribution to the promotion and highlighting of the relatively new concept of gender budgeting. the promotion of the idea, that is to say the incorporation of gender equality in the budget, certainly does not seek to create separate funding funds or seek more financial resources for women. what we are trying to do is to assess the concrete consequences for the economic and social life of the two sexes and, of course, to restructure budgets in order to promote rather than undermine gender equality. today, it is increasingly understood that macroeconomic policy can narrow or widen the gender gap in terms of economic resources, economic empowerment, education and health care. for example, the health budget should take into account the specific needs arising from the different physiologies of the sexes and the different health problems faced by the sexes. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i regret that the european commission has neither methods nor reliable statistics to analyse the budget by gender. i would also like to stress that all the committees of the european parliament should implement gender mainstreaming in all their budgets. finally, the existence of transparency and control mechanisms is also of great importance.
in writing. - (el) after an intermediate review of the cap, which was a real disaster for farmers, the eu goes to cancun to present it as a "gift" to the world market for competitive agricultural products. it is also preparing to cancel export subsidies and customs duties on imports from developing countries, which will mean that our own products will be sidelined. it is also prepared to open the debate on competition and foreign investment, with conditions which will be onerous for developing countries, since they will be exploited even more by multinationals. the opening up of public services in these countries will even be discussed, so that multinationals can have free access to them. what the wto is not willing to discuss, however, is access to cheap medicines and the protection of biodiversity. the right to health, education, healthy food, water, telecommunications and energy must be subject to the law of commercial interests and the increase of profits. we voted against the european parliament's resolution because, although it expresses certain reservations, it does in fact accept the role of the world trade organisation. the greek communist party does not believe in a reform of the wto which would reduce inequalities in international trade and allow the development of third world countries. but he believes in the struggle of peoples.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is an extraordinary political moment to discuss rural women at a time when the revision of the common agricultural policy is being finalised, the revision of the common fisheries policy is under way and nothing in the reforms envisaged has been specified for women. i thank the conference of presidents for having accepted the initiative of the committee on women's rights to draw up this report and all the political groups whose participation and amendments have enriched the original draft of my report. i would also like to thank the committee on agriculture and rural development for supporting this report and for cooperating with us in the drafting of the opinion, the main points of which are included in the proposed resolution. today, in the european union, we are looking for effective strategies for rural development based on the new european model and, at the same time, for addressing local and regional disparities. in the context of this policy, we all recognise that human resources are a key factor in development. our policies must therefore be based on the principle of equality between men and women if we are to give real development opportunities to all rural citizens, men and women. the european union's policies to empower women in rural areas have not had the expected results. today, in the european union, the percentage of women working in agriculture is 37%. this percentage varies from country to country, but the situation on farms and in rural social life has more or less the same characteristics. only one in five farms is run by a woman and, in the majority of them, these farms are small. in the last decade we have had an increase of only 1%. about one in two women involved in agricultural production and life appears as the wife or partner of the farmer, a status of invisible, unrecognised work, which is not in line with the objectives of the quality of work of european policy, but also does not give any prerequisite for personal development and development of the local society. the level of education of women is very low, both in terms of basic education and in terms of full or part-time agricultural training. social security varies from one country to another. the report also calls for the establishment of a european system of social security for women, which is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. the tools we had until today were incomplete. the directive 86/613 on the application of equal treatment, which also covers agricultural activity, is not binding enough, and so we support its revision, its adaptation to the new facts. the member states, for their part, must recognize and guarantee the work of women farmers with contributions at levels compatible with family work in terms of insurance and pensions. another proposal from our committee is that, in the context of the programmes and financing of the structural funds for rural development, particularly in the leader plus programme, special attention should be paid to strengthening the role of women farmers. at the same time, the leader observatory should be strengthened to fill the gaps in european statistics on the situation of rural women and to supplement them by collecting additional data and establishing indicators to capture the situation as it is today and to be able to measure the progress we hope to make in the future. the resolution i am proposing to you also proposes that the current method of calculating aid, farm funding, which takes account of farms and not of the active population, thus harming women who work as the second part of the couple, be replaced by a system which does not take account of all the people employed in agriculture and their actual contribution. the resources resulting from the redistribution of direct aid are proposed to be directed towards programmes for women farmers, and we call on the european commission to provide, in the context of the future programme for the structural funds for rural development, for a specific programme for women farmers in the new programming period, because so far, with the horizontal lines existing in the structural funds, the expected results have not been achieved. on the other hand, we call on the european commission and the member states to make life in the countryside easier and more attractive for young women, young farmers, because we see that the demographic trend is that the presence of women in rural areas is declining. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
the report, mr president, makes a special reference to the plight of women farmers. however, the causes and the people responsible for the situation are not being identified. a deliberate attempt is being made to mislead women farmers into thinking that their position can be improved by the even tougher anti-agricultural measures promoted by the recent revision of the cap. the findings on the effectiveness of programmes such as leader i and ii are also misleading. as is well known, these programmes are complementary to agriculture and rural development measures, and the proportion of funding for the so-called second pillar is not only meagre, but is mainly provided by those who are active in the sectors subsidized by these programmes. the report in substance accepts the complementary and unequal role of women farmers in agricultural activity, but also the attempt to remove rural women from agricultural employment and thus to orient them towards similar activities. these proposals serve the european union's objective of further reducing the rural population and desertifying the countryside, which already has, especially in greece, huge problems of abandonment. finally, given this, proposals such as the creation of kindergartens, cultural centres, public transport, etc. are from trivial to cynically hypocritical. the acute problems of the rural population are the result of the cap and anti-agricultural policies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new forms of production, which are not yet in place. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i too would like to warmly congratulate and thank mrs cratza, who has taken the initiative in drawing up this report. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. the women's committee, understanding and appreciating the special contribution that women farmers can make to rural development, organised a public debate on 18 march 2003. after the recent revision of the cap, we expect, commissioner, that the additional funds for rural development will also be directed towards improving the lives of women farmers, who are undervalued and degraded in all regions of the european union. we hope in particular that the necessary infrastructure will be created to enable women farmers to combine their professional and family life, and also their quality of life. we certainly recognize that the third community support framework has contributed significantly to the creation of an institutional and financial framework for action on rural development, which has included women. in greece, thousands of women benefit from the leader community initiative. however, legal and advisory support for rural women is needed, with information and awareness-raising actions for the local community, training programmes, actions to support the special needs of women and local development objectives, in order to support and ensure the employment of rural women and their stay in their area. finally, i would like to mention a very successful area of action in greece, women's cooperatives, and particularly agro-tourism cooperatives.
mr president, in addition to the accidents in france and hungary, we also had a terrible accident in greece shortly after easter, in which 21 pupils lost their lives in tempi, between thessaloniki and larissa, while they were on a school tourist bus. it was an event that shocked all of us in greece, became widely known in europe, and together with other tragic events, leads us to today's discussion. there is of course the european commission's ten-year programme, which we will look at and comment on at length in the committee on regional policy and transport, and there are other ideas which are already mentioned in our own resolution. it was rightly stressed that we should look at the question of seat belts immediately. it is also rightly emphasized that we should look at the issue of the specifications of tourist buses and i welcome the european commission's position on this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the internal market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i hope that the council will take them up. i would like to make two points. one is the issue of speed limiters. i stress this because i myself was a rapporteur in the european parliament. there are laws in place. and it is up to governments to implement this legislation as quickly as possible. it has been shown that by limiting speed, especially in the case of large vehicles, we reduce both the likelihood of accidents and their consequences. the second point i want to make, which concerns the european commission, concerns projects financed by community support framework expenditure. we must be particularly careful about road works, so that they do not have malpractice. i have had the particularly sad experience of my own country where new projects have very serious malpractices and are therefore dangerous and cannot always be used safely. the european commission must therefore strictly control the quality of projects.
mr president, i regret to denounce an unacceptable and shameful act of the turkish forces illegally occupying the northern part of cyprus. last saturday, two greek cypriot teachers of the greek primary school of rizokarpasos, alexia and grigoris kokotskis, were expelled along with their children from rizokarpasos, where they had gone in order to hand over the building and the school's supplies to their successors. the karpasia coordination committee conveys fears of expulsion of those greek cypriots who remain in karpasia, starting with families with children who are candidates for high school. the commission stresses that following a proposal to open a private secondary school in rizokarpasos, the turkish occupiers are threatening to close the primary school in the town, which is the only greek school in operation in the occupied territories. i do not think it is necessary, mr president, to point out to this house how many fundamental rights and international treaties are being violated, and which ones. i ask you, mr president, to intervene in the turkish authorities in ankara, whose proxies are once again unlawfully operating in the occupied part of cyprus.
mr president, let me point out that the military forces in iraq, which you mentioned at the beginning, are in fact occupying forces. now, on to the point. the romanian judiciary has reportedly removed the socialist workers' party, which has 110,000 members and was until recently represented in parliament, from the list of recognized political parties in the country. the decision to delete is grossly illegal, since it contradicts law 14/2003 on the functioning of political parties. it was taken after intense pressure on the judiciary by the romanian government and after intervention in the internal affairs of the socialist workers' party by the ruling democratic socialist party. the communist party of greece denounces the illegal and unacceptable actions of the romanian authorities, which are obviously aimed at silencing any view that defends basic rights and promotes socialist visions. we cannot but associate these actions with the establishment of american military bases in romania and with the country's imminent accession to the european union.
mr president, a few weeks ago i was in latvia as a guest of the latvian socialist party. i have had the opportunity to learn about some very serious violations of basic human rights, and this despite the periodic progress reports on latvia. so the kke of latvia is always outlawed. more than 70,000 residents are deprived of all political rights and the right to take latvian citizenship because they had not left the communist party eight months before the soviet union's dissolution. the same reason latvian citizens do not have the right to stand for election. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. also, many hundreds of thousands out of a total population of 2,500,000 have no nationality identity, and many have been living in latvia for 100 years. the 30% of the population do not have the right to vote and will therefore not take part in the referendum on european union, so that referendum is already invalid. while 45% of latvians are russian-speaking, russian-speaking universities have been closed since 1998 and, finally, a complete ban on russian-speaking primary and secondary schools was lifted amid protests, but only 40% of the teaching was done. the european union is guilty of tolerance, if not of acquiescence, in the face of this situation. once again we have the familiar policy of two metres and two stations. and this situation is not only in latvia, but also in estonia and elsewhere. how do you intend to react, mr president, especially since a similar situation exists in estonia, as i said, where among other things monuments in favour of the ss are being erected?
mr president, the european union continues to remain silent in the face of the great crime being committed in palestine by the mafia government of sharon. israel's policy, beyond the wall of shame which is 150 kilometres long - with the prospect of rising to 350 metres - and 8.5 metres high, continues to murder political opponents, hamas operatives, in cold blood and to bomb palestinians, resulting in deaths and injuries. i ask why the european union is still financing israel, and why the high representative of the european union, mr solana, who is in israel, has not denounced these murders.
commission. mr president, mr radwan referred to comitology; i should like to stress that one of the key comments which the commission has received is that the new framework should be capable of being updated speedily. the commission agrees that this is very important, and it is also recognised in the report that we are discussing here today. the commission recognises parliament's concerns about the use of comitology: it is an old subject that has often been discussed in this house. this concern is also reflected in the draft report presented by mr radwan. all of the proposed provisions, both articles and annexes, will be contained in the commission's proposal and all will have to be agreed according to the codecision procedure. therefore, parliament will be fully within its rights in making all the comments it wishes to make. as i have said a number of times in this house, the commission supports parliament's desire to have article 202 of the treaty amended, as mrs randzio-plath knows very well. the second point i would like to raise is the matter of smes. it was mentioned by a number of members – mr karas, mr markov, mrs villiers, mr ilgenfritz and others. i should like to point out that numerous improvements have been made in order to ensure fair and proportionate capital requirements for bank lending to smes. examples of this are the lowering of the requirements for riskier borrowers; a discount of on average 10% for smaller borrowers and allowing smes to be included in the retail portfolio when the loan is for less than eur 1 million. mr karas asked whether that could be indexed according to inflation. i would have absolutely no objection to that, but it is one of the issues that should be developed according to the comitology procedure. impact studies have been carried out and the results indicate that the new rules would result in fair and proportionate capital requirements for exposures for smes, so smes stand to benefit, and therefore i cannot agree with mr ilgenfritz. i would refer him to mrs villiers' very pertinent comments which directly opposed his views. i would suggest that these two members of parliament have a short debate on the matter, but certainly the commission agrees with mrs villiers. then there is the matter of venture capital, which mr ettl in particular referred to. the commission shares the view that venture capital and equity investments in start-up companies are important. however, the purpose of prudential legislation, and that is what we are discussing, is to protect the financial system and the interests of depositors and savers. indeed, mr ettl himself drew attention to the need for consumer protection. therefore we must be sure that we do not treat riskier investments, for example in venture capital firms, on a basis which is too lax, therefore running the risk of damaging consumer protection. as i mentioned earlier, however, i am happy to clarify that the small firm discount – i.e. the reduction of up to 20% for lending to smaller firms – will also apply to equity exposures to venture capital firms. a number of members have asked for further studies. the barcelona european council asked for further studies to be made on the impact of basel ii on the european economy. in the light of this request, a study is being carried out by pricewaterhousecoopers. the draft report is due at the end of this year, with the final report available at the end of march. results of the study are due to be delivered to the commission early in 2004. as i said earlier, we have now carried out impact studies and next year pricewaterhousecoopers will carry out further studies as a result of demands placed upon the commission by the barcelona european council. mrs randzio-plath drew attention to the fact that only a limited number of banks will have to comply with the basel ii rules in the united states. however, according to roger ferguson, the 'number two' at the federal reserve, the fact that basel ii will apply to the 'ten plus ten' american banks – the ten biggest and the ten next biggest – means that more than 99% of us foreign banking assets will be covered. therefore, we can accept that there will be fair competition between european and american banks when they meet internationally. mrs randzio-plath and others mentioned the matter of procyclicality. as i said earlier in my introductory speech, increased risk-sensitivity is an important fact. it is my view – and i hope that of parliament – that the report strikes the right balance in this regard. modifications have been introduced to reduce the procyclic effects of the draft rules, which is a good thing. we also hope that better risk management as a result of the whole basel ii procedure will enable banks to be better prepared to deal with the effects of economic recessions. in his introduction mr radwan raised an important point concerning soft law. i well understand the concerns of parliament on this matter. soft law means that parliament may be circumvented. i accept the point of view of those who say that soft law must be kept within bounds so that the democratic contents of law cannot be adulterated. i accept that view but find it difficult to accept that the whole soft law concept would apply either to the accounting standards or to basel ii. mr radwan also drew attention to accounting standards. both areas – the accounting standards and basel ii – are hideously complicated. i think mr radwan would agree with that. therefore it is reasonable that experts in those fields should be called upon to formulate rules, as is happening with the international accounting standards board and the basel ii committee on which the commission is an observer. when all that has been done, the results will be set out in the form of directives. there will be a directive on basel ii and on international accounting standards. therefore, parliament will be within its rights to make any complaint it wishes to and to raise issues. once again, while accepting mr radwan's point of view on soft law in general, to apply it to basel ii or to the accounting standards is not the right thing to do.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. the committee on legal affairs and the internal market has given me the honour of drawing up an own-initiative report on the legal bases and the respect for community law. the title of the report is not accurate. i'd say he's a little misleading. in fact, this is the big issue that is causing the council, the commission and the european parliament to take controversial positions and that concerns the examination of the possible legal bases for the european union's competence to provide for criminal sanctions for certain serious breaches of community law. there is a wide range of views as to whether and to what extent such an activity can be legalised. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i thank them for their contribution and i would like to inform the house that the report was based on those points where there seems to be more or less consensus. the common objective of all of us must be to implement community provisions more effectively, but with solutions that are reliable, because it is important to create legal certainty. i would also remind you that the question of criminal sanctioning of serious breaches of community law has been raised in the past in connection with legislative proposals concerning the protection of the environment, the protection of the community's financial interests, the safeguarding of intellectual property rights, pollution from ships and pollution offences in general. the matter is quite complicated from a legal point of view. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the report focuses on the legalization of criminal sanctions under the first pillar. in order to make the problem clear, i shall confine myself to the main question to which the report gives a positive answer, namely whether the community can impose on the member states the obligation to provide for criminal provisions for serious breaches of community law. this is the so-called mixed method, where the community imposes an obligation on the states to provide for criminal sanctions for the matter in question. we have limited ourselves to this method because it seems to have a high degree of consensus. on the other hand, the strict community method of directly providing for criminal sanctions in community law, a kind of communitization of criminal law, is faced with serious legal objections, starting from the fact that there is no clear legal basis in the treaty on this subject, that criminal sanctions are part of the national sovereignty of the member states and that criminal justice is an integral part of national culture. it is also argued that criminal sanction is linked to the restriction of individual rights, which presupposes a fully constitutionally organised state and not an imperfect legal order, with obvious economic elements and democratic deficit, such as the european union. in any event, even if the community's strict method were accepted, it would be limited to providing for a criminal penalty. the court of justice has no jurisdiction to impose a sanction in this case. the so-called national method, which means the right of the member states to provide for criminal sanctions for infringements of community law, does not create any problems. the member states are free to follow this method. the sanction must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. it was also understood that it does not deal with the issue of the harmonisation of criminal rights and penalties for which only the third pillar can be used in specific cases. the draft constitution is taking these issues to a new level. the position of the report on the basic question we have raised above, namely whether the community can impose on the member states an obligation to provide for criminal sanctions, is that the community legislator has the legal capacity to require this from the member states. in particular, it accepts that article 10 tec lays down the principle of legality, which implies an obligation on the states to ensure that infringements of community law are punishable by effective criminal penalties. the court of justice has held that the principle of proportionality is not a principle of community law, but that it is a principle of community law, and that the principle of proportionality is not a principle of community law. the report therefore states that, in order to be legal, such a community initiative in the present legal situation must be exercised only in cases where effective compliance with community provisions can only be ensured in this way. finally, the report proposes that the european commission, as the guardian of the community's interests, should be able to institute or pursue legal proceedings, at least in cases where the member states are entitled to do so. it is encouraging that the constitutional assembly is moving along the same wavelength with the final proposals of the proposed resolution, as shown by articles i-13, iii-65 and iii-172. when the new treaty comes into force we shall have to look at this again.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr president, when asked which of the european union's policies touches you most, makes you feel more like a european citizen, the european citizen points to regional policy, cohesion policy, which plays a central role in the process of european integration and in supporting the single market and economic and monetary union. the importance of this policy for promoting cohesion in an enlarged european union, which will be marked by a marked increase in the differences in levels of development between its regions, and the need to provide instruments which will respond to the new circumstances, should be emphasized. it is vital to bridge these gaps by promoting long-term, balanced and multi-centred development throughout our european union. the commission's communication on the regional policy and the transport and tourism sector, which was adopted by the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, has, after extensive discussions, highlighted a number of points which it considers to be fundamental in relation to regional policy and cohesion policy. welcomes the european commission's position in rejecting attempts to renationalize regional policy and cohesion policy and its determination to maintain a genuine community policy; - supports the commission's view that community regional policy and cohesion policy should be applied to all regions of the union which satisfy the relevant criteria; - recalls the need for greater coordination between regional policy and cohesion policy with regard to policies which have a significant territorial impact on the periphery; considers that the commission should pay particular attention to the specific instruments of cooperation or coordination which can have a significant impact on the periphery, such as agriculture, fisheries, transport, research and technology, education, training and information society policy; underlines the need to link future regional policy with european competition policy; reiterates parliament's position that it is not possible to fall below the current limit of 0.45% of the community gross product for cohesion policy; stresses that the commission should pay particular attention to those regions which are most vulnerable to the cultural impact of enlargement and should treat them as such; considers that the commission should now take account of the specific rules of the european union relating to the periphery, namely those which have a significant impact on the periphery, such as agriculture, fisheries, transport, research and technology, education, training and information society; considers that the commission's regional policy objectives are to be achieved by means of a coherent approach to the regional policy objectives of the union; considers that the commission's three main objectives are to support the integration of the regional dimension of the regional policy, namely by strengthening the regional dimension of the regional dimension of the regional dimension, the structural dimension, the competitiveness of the regional dimension, the quality of the regional dimension, the specific characteristics of the regional dimension and the regional dimension of the regional dimension, the specific characteristics of the regional dimension of the regional dimension, the specific characteristics of the regional dimension of the regional dimension of the regional dimension of the regional dimension, the regional dimension of the regional dimension of the regional dimension of the regional dimension of the regional dimension of the regional dimension of the regional dimension of the regional dimension of the regional dimension of the the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. it also asks the house to accept this motion for a resolution which we have reached. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to the completion of my report, colleagues and collaborators, and all of you who are contributing today. i also declare myself a fan of the old greek saying: "the best is the best".
mr president, if you think i can represent mr pomés ruiz, i can speak for him. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. firstly, to what is said in the report, that we cannot fall below 0.45% of gnp for future cohesion policies. as commissioner barnier has pointed out in the past, parliament believes that if community funding falls below this point for cohesion policies, these policies, especially in view of enlargement, will lose their credibility and effectiveness. the second point concerns objective ii, which obviously needs to be simplified so that actions have greater visibility and a better impact on citizens. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. simplification is required. it is becoming clear, and i think it has been understood by the commission, which has also organised relevant seminars with local and regional authorities from time to time, particularly in view of the new programming period, that we must think together about how these actions can be made more effective by simplifying them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. i would first of all like to welcome the development we recently had in the constituent assembly, which extended the concept of economic and social cohesion by adding the term 'territorial cohesion'. i hope that the term which has been added can provide a sufficient legal basis so that we can have something more concrete and more tangible in the future for these areas. however, parliament considered that there was still a need for clarification of article 158 of the treaty, which concerns island regions. in this particular article you know that there's a dichotomy as far as translation is concerned. it is translated differently in different languages. it is necessary to clarify this at last so that the provision for island regions can be applied. parliament also considers that, in addition to structural measures, the article on state aid, article 87, should be amended so that the areas we are talking about today are included in the regions requiring special treatment. in addition, mr president, parliament in the report by mr pomés ruiz is arguing, and i think quite rightly, that in the context of the new objective ii, which i have already mentioned in reference to mr mastorakis' report, there is a need for specific thematic action covering these areas. parliament also added that for those areas which are permanently disadvantaged by their geographical location, there can and should be a higher proportion of community co-financing through the structural funds in the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the environment. the commission has recently commissioned studies on this subject. it started with the mountain areas and continued with the island areas. i would really like to hope that today's debate, and in particular mr pomés ruiz's report on the regions with permanent structural handicaps, will really be the opportunity we have been looking for for years so that something can change and the message be given to the inhabitants of these areas that we are actually addressing their problems, because indeed these areas - as has been shown, i think, by the commission's studies - have a permanent handicap resulting from their geographical location and which does not allow them to compete on equal terms with the other regions and regions of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, the failure of the european union's regional policy to achieve its stated aim of economic and social cohesion augurs the worst prospects for its application in the weaker member states after enlargement. in many cases, in fact, we have not only had no reduction in development disparities, but a widening of the gap between the backward and the developed regions. this is true both of island and mountain areas and of urban centers, which are plagued by mass unemployment and poverty. for example, greece, after 23 years of membership, remains the poorest country in the european union, and it is continuing to get poorer, with regions showing a decline in per capita income. the lack of resources and the continuing cuts have not helped to strengthen the much-touted cohesion and stabilise the level of growth. the commission has also been active in the development of the european union's policy on the environment, and has been involved in the preparation of the european council's conclusions on the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in writing. - (el) the commission's proposal is part of a comprehensive european strategy to regulate relations between the community and third countries in the field of aviation and to concentrate at community level competences which, until now, were the prerogative of the member states. this reinforces the process by which member states are dispossessed of their independent negotiating capacity and this undermines their national sovereignty. in the wake of the eu's referral to the european court of justice and, in particular, the conviction of the eight member states that have signed bilateral open skies air services agreements with the united states, the eu has identified a prime opportunity to compel member states to consent to its intervention and participation in the negotiation and conclusion or renegotiation of existing bilateral air services agreements, a field that has hitherto been exclusively national. in doing so, the eu is literally meddling in negotiations between member states and third countries, which favours european integration and the interests of european airline monopolies at the expense of the ability of member states to conduct independent negotiations with third countries in accordance with their national interests in order to reach agreements that benefit them in the field of their airline relations. we shall vote against this report because, despite the efforts made to mitigate the undesirable provisions, it is moving in the same direction as the commission.
in writing. - (el) the enlargement of the european union is giving rise to a new issue in the union's regional policy. this is why, among other things,:- continue to provide resources to regions that are at risk of exclusion, not because of their actual progress, but as a consequence of the changes in the statistical parameters induced by the integration of the 10 new eu member states;- continue to provide transitional support to regions that have exceeded the 75% threshold on a real, not just statistical, basis;- refuse the nationalisation of regional policy following the freezing of the budget to pre-enlargement amounts;- focus on underdeveloped regions and other regions suffering from a serious structural disadvantage;- strengthen interregional cooperation;- integrate the regional dimension into all european policies. finally, the mastorakis report makes a number of specific proposals which are worth noting.
in writing. - (el) like my group, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on structurally disadvantaged regions. the enlargement of the eu to 10 new member states and the simultaneous stagnation of the community budget raise serious concerns about the union's action in the islands, mountain regions and sparsely populated regions within the union. it is important to maintain and consolidate the 'cohesion policy' and not to create a split and inconsistency in programming and financing. the political principle of 'solidarity' must be fully respected in order to alleviate the structural difficulties of these regions. the possibility of increasing funding to less-favoured regions, depending on the extent of their disability, is of particular importance. finally, i would like to stress the urgent need to halt soil erosion in the islands, particularly the aegean islands, through an ambitious programme to conserve a network of perres.
commission. the commission is aware that the ambient air quality situation, particularly in metropolitan cities such as athens, needs to be improved. this is a major aim of current community legislation on air quality and emissions. in compliance with the reporting obligations of the air quality framework directive, greece has reported the 2001 concentration levels for the pollutants regulated in the first daughter directive. according to this information, the limit values for pm10, as well as for no2, plus the margin of tolerance, have been exceeded at several stations in athens. as greece has not yet provided the necessary justification to demonstrate that such excesses of pm10 are due to natural events, the commission expects to receive plans and programmes in accordance with article 8 of the framework directive by the end of 2003. these should show how greece intends to achieve the limit values by 2005. the same applies to no2 where, however, no derogation for natural sources or events is allowed. for no2 the directives also set an alert threshold which is surpassed when concentrations exceed 400 micrograms per cubic metre over three consecutive hours. the commission must be informed of any exceeding of the alert threshold within three months. no information from the greek authorities on such an event has been provided up to now. the commission has also received findings from a research programme indicating an increase of mortality in cities where high pm10 concentrations are accompanied by high no2 levels and a warm climate. we need to study these findings carefully to conclude whether there is sufficient evidence for such a relationship. however, there is no doubt that unfavourable climatic conditions are always an additional threat to human health. member states are obliged to ensure that up-to-date information on ambient concentration of air pollutants, such as no2 or pm10, is routinely made available to the public. according to the honourable member, the ministry has stopped issuing information on this matter. in the light of the above, the commission will open an own-initiative case to investigate whether and to what extent the greek authorities have not complied with the relevant ec regulations.
i thank the commissioner for her well-founded reply. i would point out, of course, that we are talking about figures for 2001 and we are living in 2003, and there is also the additional element of the multiple projects for the olympic games and the dust that is hovering over athens and for which no appropriate measures have been taken. in this context, i would like to ask the commission whether it is also going to investigate the burden of pollution from this photochemical pollution and particulate matter, as well as from the olympic projects that are carried out without taking the appropriate measures to protect the health of citizens.
the rapporteur, mr president, has shown a particular, i would say excessive, concern for the problems of the disabled and deserves the congratulations of all our members. we all usually offer to speak up for the disabled. it is not, however, to be overlooked that the problem of disability does not concern a particular category of unfortunate people, but all of us, because we are all potential candidates for disability. it is not enough to mention the thousands of disabled people who are injured each year as a result of accidents at work or in the car industry. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we all know that the great shift in the treatment of disability in recent years is that disabled people are not just treated as problem-bearers but as human rights subjects. what has not yet been fully realised is that it is not simply a matter of granting additional rights to a certain category of persons. the recognition of disabled people as bearers of rights is part of the very function of democracy. it is therefore the exercise of all existing fundamental rights. the right to freedom of expression implies the right to information. neither of these can be exercised by disabled people unless they are provided with the corresponding language. universal access to public services is an empty letter if the barriers to access for disabled people to services are not removed. the fundamental rights of persons with disabilities to vote and to stand for election are suspended for certain categories of persons with disabilities until special arrangements are made to enable them to vote. the question is not whether we should simply move forward with the guarantee of already generally guaranteed rights for the disabled, or even the principle of recognising specific rights, but how such a fundamental question for the functioning of democracy has remained open for so many years. at this point, i'd like to ask a simple question: the year 2003 was declared the year of disabled persons. such a solemn proclamation has a practical impact not only when it is limited to raising awareness or collecting material, but when it provides for specific timetables. i know that commissioner diamantopoulou has a keen interest and a particular sensitivity for a forward-looking policy for disabled people. the commission and the member states do not seem to be on the same page. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would therefore ask the commissioner to convey to the commission our position that it is not possible for the european union to convince the un members in a credible way to vote for a special convention binding on both developing and poorer countries when the most developed region refuses to be the model in this endeavour. in any case, the main line to be crossed is not the recognition of new rights, but the eventual implementation of the rights already guaranteed by the international conventions that the un has recognized. in this way, the safeguarding of the rights of persons with disabilities will escape the logic of granting a right and will be based on the notion that it is a duty on the basis of the commitments made internationally.
mr president, commissioner, the prevention and combating of violence against women and children is a high priority for the committee which i have the honour of chairing, and we are striving to make it the top priority on the european union's agenda. the committee on women, immediately after beijing, made a great effort to combat violence, and these efforts resulted in the adoption of the daphne programme, the extension of which until 2008 is being discussed today. the committee on budgets, chaired by mrs gröner, welcomes the adoption of the second phase of the daphne programme until 2008 and the increase in its budget. violence against women and children is known to be a widespread phenomenon, but i would like to refer in particular to an incident which occurred during the summer. of course, this issue would not have received so much publicity through the international press if it were not for the daughter of the famous french actor jean-louis trentin. we know that marie trentinian was beaten to death by the french musician and her companion bertrand cantat. of course, there are thousands of women who suffer violence on a daily basis within the european union itself, thousands of women and children who suffer humiliating or even deadly violence on a daily basis from men like mr cantat. the un even claims that spousal violence causes more deaths among women than cancer. in addition, in recent years, with the increase in migration flows, we know that thousands of women and children in europe are victims of a new form of slavery, trafficking for economic and sexual exploitation. it is a total denial of fundamental human rights and freedoms, that is, of everything that makes human life worth living. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european agency for medicinal products for human use is properly monitored. in the previous period, funding shortcomings limited the full implementation of the programme, as it was unable to meet the increased requirements, as mrs avilés perea has already mentioned. it is also well known that our committee has made an effort to raise the awareness of the members of the assembly in order to establish a strong legal basis for combating violence, but unfortunately our appeal has not been well received. mr president, i think that our rapporteur, mrs gröner, has dealt in detail with our demands and her report is indeed excellent.
mr president, it is a great pleasure for me personally, as it is for all the members of our committee, to be discussing today the extension of the daphne programme and planning it for the next five years in an enlarged european union. although the policy to combat violence is a duty and responsibility of the member states, with daphne i we have all become even more aware of the consequences of violence on the mental and physical health of individuals and on society as a whole. with daphne ii we aim to raise public awareness more widely and systematically, to investigate the causes better, to find ways of dealing with problems and to get closer to the target groups and individuals. the research results mentioned by mrs fraisse, who has research experience, are very important and convince us that we really must be more systematic about research because we often finance actions which are trivial and do not add any added value. i agree with the european commission's proposal for the amount of funding for the programme, which my group is rounding off, to eur 50 million. we believe that it is not the money that is lacking, but the right actions for the right objectives, the right legal basis. this money, if properly spent, will be enough. in the second phase of the daphne programme, the experience gained should help us to make the actions financed more qualitative and effective, complementary to national policies and coordinated with national objectives. my group also believes that this programme should remain within the framework of the european union countries, without extending to the neighbouring countries. the problems we are already facing are many and serious. violence is a global phenomenon and we are very concerned about the policy we have to implement to deal with it in the countries with which we have association agreements and other trade partnerships, but this has to be done on the basis of other, specific policies.
mr president, the proposal for a 'constitutional treaty' is the product of the most reactionary circles in the capitalist system. the boasting of mr giscard d'estaing and those behind him, the celebrations of the then greek presidency and the present italian presidency are not enough to overturn this reality. those who promote anti-people politics have the audacity to call a text a 'constitution' which not only does not crystallise democratic conquests of the peoples, but reduces them to a text which also constitutionalises capitalism, which redistributes power in favour of the powerful, which further assigns national sovereignty to the imperialist, euro-union centre, which dangerously deepens the militarisation of the european union. we're not surprised by the outcome. it could not be otherwise, because it could not fail to reflect the character of the eu and its current policy direction. the kke is therefore opposed to the adoption of a euro-constitution which strengthens the imperialist eu at the expense of the peoples and for the benefit of the exploiters. we are not surprised by the lack of substantive information on the content of the constitution. despite the propaganda campaign, the people must not be fooled. they must intensify their struggle to defend and expand their conquests, to tear down the edifice that the exploiters are building, to finally change society.
the rapporteur. mr president, paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 state that parliament is asking ... the assembly and the intergovernmental conference to... since the work of the assembly has been terminated, i think that the word 'assembly' should be deleted and the word 'intergovernmental' should remain.
in writing. - (el) it is important to set criteria, preconditions and limitations for the employment of seafarers by third countries on community vessels. these ships often resemble towers of babel, leading to anarchy and accidents. the recent shipwrecks of the prestige and the tricolor show the importance of maritime safety. the poignant report on the proposal for a directive on the minimum level of training of seafarers is a step in the right direction because it raises the question of the recognition of seafarers from third countries. this requires an evaluation of each country's training system with a view to issuing a certificate of competence which will remain valid for a period of five years - and not just an individual approach. however, the measures taken are lacking in provisions to combat unemployment and the increasingly fierce competition between seafarers from the various countries of the community.
in writing. - (el) the commission proposal promotes the legalisation of the dangerous and unacceptable deterioration of seafarer training, satisfying the decisions of the large shipowners to increase their profits at the expense of the safety on which the very lives of seafarers depend, but also of maritime navigation and the environment. experts from international organisations also note this deterioration and attribute it mainly to the conclusion of agreements modelled on the instructions of shipowners, which form the basis of the proposed directive. the breakdown of the link between diploma and work permit, which is aimed at exploiting a cheap and essentially unskilled labour force, is only one of the elements that characterise this voluntary downgrading of maritime education to the status of mere training. we believe that the training of seafarers must be improved to meet the needs of the present day. but to do this, it is necessary to break the link with the large shipowners completely, which the eu cannot and does not want to do. seafarers themselves and other workers must fight for another policy of radical reforms, not only of the free public education system and its safeguarding, but also of international agreements and conventions, so that they define minimum training levels, introduce strict provisions that will determine the crews of ships and fully preserve the labour and insurance rights of seafarers. this, combined with the renewal of ships, will ensure safe sea navigation.
in writing. - (el) behind the apparently neutral title 'on the legal bases and respect for community law', the own-initiative report of the legal affairs committee conceals the total subordination of national criminal law to community law. in line with the eu's philosophy, the report argues that the community should be able to oblige member states to impose specific criminal sanctions in the event of a breach of community law. the term 'criminal sanctions' conveys the idea of very heavy penalties, which distinguishes it from administrative or financial sanctions already imposed by eu leaders. the report also proposes that the commission may bring civil proceedings before national criminal courts and even oblige member states to impose prison sentences decided by the community. the only thing left to do is to see the creation of community prisons to enforce community sanctions! this is a further violation of national sovereignty and the so-called "rule of law" of the bourgeoisie, since a supranational body is entrusted with the task of exercising criminal jurisdiction and deciding the type and extent of the penalty. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year.
in writing. - (el) in an eu built to the requirements of the big multinationals and whose only concern is to serve their interests, we cannot talk about prosperity for the lower classes or ensure the rights of workers, women, youth, the disabled and the elderly. i want to see this as a proof that about a quarter of the eu population lives below the poverty line. the concern to eradicate poverty is nothing but hypocrisy. the aim is to hide the barbarity of capitalist exploitation by 'charity' programmes and to avoid serious social unrest. the so-called social agenda is being implemented through greater flexibility, the expansion of temporary work, the extension of professional careers, lifelong learning, the reduction of incomes and their link to productivity, the reduction of the welfare state and social protection, and the reduction of public spending on education and health. capitalism needs an army of unemployed. the objective of full employment is therefore a false title, and this in an era of fierce competition and restructuring and relocation of firms, which are leading to massive job losses. an attempt is being made to untie this gordian knot by resorting to parttime or temporary work, i.e. by distributing work among several workers. we therefore call on the workers, the popular strata, the progressive and radical forces in the eu countries to fight against monopolistic choices and to demand a different and popular policy.
in writing. - (el) un resolution 56/168 establishes the principle of equal opportunities with a view to establishing a binding framework for the protection and dignity of persons with disabilities. it is therefore important:- to establish an effective monitoring mechanism, as is the case in the other six human rights conventions in the united states;- to ensure that the convention is based on the promotion of the various rights of disabled people, as mentioned in the lynne report;- to provide for the participation of disabled people themselves and of the organisations that represent them in the establishment of national and international bodies, while keeping in mind, of course, the fight against bureaucratic distortions;- to eliminate discrimination;- to establish an urgent timetable for a community directive.
mr president, the present situation in iraq and what has preceded it over the last 12 years is not only the result of the world-wide policy of the united states and its closest partners. the eu has a great responsibility and complicity in this, for despite its members' declarations of respect for international law, it has legitimized these crimes and continues to legitimize, as it has been shown today, the barbaric occupation of iraq, in the hope of securing a share of the spoils. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo, calling on the government of the drc to take action to prevent the further spread of the disease. it can only be changed by the immediate withdrawal of the occupying forces so that the iraqi people can take their fate into their own hands and by the payment by the invaders of the necessary reparations for the reconstruction of iraq. this is the position the eu should take if it wants international law to be respected rather than being complicit in its violation. all the rest is "propositions in sin". any attempt to continue using the un to exploit the us and continue the occupation will fall flat. the iraqi people's resistance to the occupiers, whatever their hat, will continue, with growing international solidarity.
mr president, when the european union talks about human rights, people have every reason to be concerned. the memory of the criminal attacks in yugoslavia, afghanistan and iraq is fresh. the problem is that the peoples who are being 'favoured' by the european union and its friends overseas are still resisting their liberators. so are the people of cuba, who are not convinced of the benefits of the free market. the european union, which has proclaimed itself to be the world's defender of human rights, selectively uses them as leverage to impose its policy. the targeted regions and states are of geostrategic and economic interest, but also states whose socio-political system is troublesome (cuba, vietnam, china, belarus, etc.). the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is brought under control. on the other hand, the european union and the report turn a blind eye to human rights violations in the us, with anti-terrorism legislation allowing for secret arrests and emergency military tribunals. the same is true of israel, turkey and the candidate countries which persecute and ban communist parties. it is urgent, ladies and gentlemen, that the people put an end to this hypocrisy.
mr president, i would like to ask minister antonione and commissioner nielson a question in the short time i have available, which relates to paragraph 135, which stresses the central role of education for mutual understanding, etc. we are at the beginning of the school year, in the occupied part of cyprus there was only one school, in rizokarpasos, which was allowed to operate. today the occupation authorities of mr. denktas do not allow the gymnasium to function and 2-3 days ago they also expelled the teachers of the primary school. it's an emergency. the school year begins, children may be left without school and families may move to the part of the republic of cyprus where all schools are allowed to operate. i would therefore like to know from mr nielson and mr antonioni whether they will be prepared to raise this matter with the occupation authorities.
the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a directive on the protection of women against discrimination. mr president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr sylla, on having carried out a very difficult task. as the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on women's rights, i would like to express our deep satisfaction with the report's remarks and recommendations on the consolidation and implementation of democracy and equality in everyday life and practice, in the sense of balanced participation of women in democratic institutions and respect for women's human rights. it is not possible, commissioner, in the europe of the 21st century, for women to be treated as human beings and citizens with limited rights. it is unacceptable that there are still sectors and areas of the european union where community law, democratic rules and fundamental freedoms apply only to men. my committee has repeatedly condemned discrimination on grounds of sex, as well as discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation or ethnic and social origin. we condemn the different measures and weights which derive mainly from cultural traditions and social stereotypes and which today refer to dark and sad periods in human history. we are firmly and consistently calling for the obvious: that human rights and fundamental freedoms apply equally to men and women, without any discrimination whatsoever. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the child are respected and that the rights of the child are protected. on the occasion of today's adoption of the report on the daphne programme to prevent and combat violence against women, i would like to ask the european commission, and the member states, once again, to place the fight against violence against women, which is the worst form of violation of women's rights, high on their political agenda. i believe that no policy should have more weight than the protection of human rights.
i suggest. it is not for the council to comment on statements of the kind referred to by the honourable member in his question. however, it should be noted that the italian presidency will, as indicated in its programme, endeavour to promote a common management of migration flows which strikes the right balance between the policy of integration of foreigners legally resident in the european union, including by promoting dialogue at social, cultural and religious levels, and a resolute fight against illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings. this action is aimed at creating an effective and solidary common european system on immigration and asylum, in line with the measures decided by the seville and thessaloniki european councils.
thank you, minister. although i expected some denial, that is to say that no such statement was made by a member of the italian government, i would like to believe that the position is that expressed by the minister and not that expressed in this financial times publication.
i suggest. the council has not received any official information on the facts referred to by the honourable member in his question, and it never takes a position on news in the press. the council did not discuss the situation of prisoners in iraq in particular, although the issue of human rights in iraq continues to be of the greatest concern. the council is monitoring the situation very closely in all respects, including, of course, respect for human rights. the responsible authorities and the specific obligations of the united states and the united kingdom as occupying powers under existing international law were addressed in un security council resolution 1483 of 2003. the resolution also calls on all parties concerned to comply fully with their obligations under international law, including in particular the geneva conventions of 1949 and the hague convention of 1907.
mr president, as you can see, mr papayannakis' question starts with a statement from amnesty international. there is a legal problem with the prisoners, but also a problem with their basic rights, lack of communication with the family, a problem with drinking water, sanitation, etc. one of the occupying powers, the united kingdom, is a member of the european union. would the council be prepared to put mr papayannakis' questions to the united kingdom government so that an answer can be given? i think that the whole of europe is exposed to this situation.
mr president, as is commonly accepted, european cultural diversity is closely linked to linguistic diversity, which contributes significantly to the very perception of the world, to expression and creativity. it is also something that is included in the draft of the new constitutional treaty, and we are very pleased about that. the preservation of linguistic diversity, as expressed through the support of less widely used languages, contributes above all to social cohesion, to the avoidance of conflicts and, of course, in my opinion, should not operate on the logic of quantitative quantities, on the logic of majority and minority. i have the same view on minority languages. it is an order and must be treated as such. there are indeed millions of europeans who speak, near the official language of the state, within their own community, a minority language, and this is a tradition passed down from generation to generation, which we all respect. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european network of cultural centres, the establishment of a european network of cultural centres, the establishment of a european network of cultural centres, the establishment of a european network of cultural centres, the establishment of a european network of cultural centres, the establishment of a european network of cultural centres, the establishment of a european network of cultural centres, the establishment of a european network of cultural centres, the establishment of a european network of cultural centres, the establishment of a european network of cultural centres, the establishment of a european network of cultural centres, the establishment of a european network of cultural centres, the establishment of a european network of cultural centres, the establishment of a european network of cultural centres, the establishment of a european network of cultural centres, the establishment of a european network of cultural centres, the establishment of a european network of cultural centres, the establishment of a european network of cultural centres, the establishment of a european network of cultural centres, the establishment of a european network of cultural centres, the establishment of a european network of cultural centres, the establishment of a european network of cultural centres, the establishment of a european network of cultural centres, the european network of networks, the european network of networks, the european network of networks, the european network of networks, the network of networks, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the it is therefore important that our strategies for minority languages be characterized by an open spirit of cooperation, by scientific research and by a link with the richness of the cultural elements that surround them. the promotion of cultural cooperation and exchanges is the best way of contributing to the common space of european culture that we all want to create. in this era of globalisation, concentration of resources and the prevalence of monophonic situations, the preservation of minority languages should be seen as a source of primary elements which, despite their limited extent, have the freshness and the urgency to claim their expression over time. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the commission's study is therefore important and we await its results with great interest.
commission. - mr president, the commission welcomes the work of mr perry, as evidenced not only by this report but also by the efforts made over the last few months to help reform the directive in the interests of our citizens. on 6 january the commission adopted the fourth report on the application of the directive and a work programme for its review, including a public consultation phase. what have we noted in this implementation report? firstly, the directive is working quite well. however, recent technological developments call for further reflection. the aim of the public consultation was to provide the commission with an assessment of the need to update or amend the directive, and this is where the report and today's discussion will help us. as part of its work programme, the commission organised two series of public hearings in april and june, and interested parties were invited to participate in the public debate by answering specific questions and providing us with their answers. we received 160 written contributions, all of which are available on the commission's website, with the exception of a few contributions for which the authors requested confidentiality. on the basis of the analysis of the results of this consultation, the commission intends to submit a communication to parliament and the council at the end of 2003 or the beginning of 2004 on the future of audiovisual policy, together with possible proposals. one of the challenges of the review is to take technological innovation into account. in this context, i have in mind the 1998 council recommendation on the protection of minors and human dignity in audiovisual and information services, which is the first legal instrument to deal with the content of online audiovisual services broadcast on the internet. the commission intends to publish a second report on the implementation of the recommendation in the coming year, based on a questionnaire sent to the member states. the aim of this report is to report on progress, to allow for direct comparison and to include the new member states as well. mr perry raises a number of questions in his report which i would like to answer, without prejudice, of course, to the consultations which are under way. first, the scope of the directive, points 7 to 12. mr perry advocates the extension of the definition of audiovisual content to take account of the convergence of media. however, as long as broadcasting services have an uneven importance and impact in our societies, it seems difficult to reach a consensus on the concept of content without borders. this is what the consultation showed. and as long as information society services are at an early stage of development, i think it would be inappropriate at this stage of the negotiations to subject them to the more detailed approach of the directive. the very first thing to do is therefore to check whether the directive provides the appropriate regulatory framework for the coming years or whether a change is necessary, which will be done in the communication. as regards the working party of national regulators, point 19, the commission already had a meeting with the regulators last march and the next meeting is scheduled for 14 october. some member states, however, do not see the need for an additional committee and have already expressed fears that this committee will be duplicative. i am not in favour of systematic participation by public and private broadcasters, but rather of invitations on an ad hoc basis as we are doing at the moment. as regards self-regulation and co-regulation - paragraph 20 of the report - i agree with the rapporteur that co-regulation should be allowed to play a more important role. that is why we have specifically raised this question in the working papers and i think we will be able to make progress in this direction. i now come to point 28, with the pan-european channels, and i do not think that the commission is going to take the initiative in this area. moreover, in view of the disappointing results of a study on the possibilities of using digital platforms for thematic channels, it seemed difficult for the commission to finance further studies on this subject. however, we will continue to contribute indirectly to the creation of pan-european channels by establishing a favourable regulatory framework and by supporting the creation and broadcasting of european audiovisual works. as regards the question of television for the disabled - point 34 - it should be noted that the directive deals mainly with content-related aspects and, therefore, the issue of disabled people is not formally addressed in the report on the application of the directive because it does not fall within its scope. it is for the member states to apply the principle of subsidiarity in this area. however, access to television services for disabled people is very important. my services have received several contributions on these relevant issues and all of these contributions are available on the commission's website. you will also find the contributions of associations representing disabled people. in order to make progress in this direction, we intend, together with the royal national institute for the deaf people and the royal national institute for the blind in the united kingdom, to organise a round table on 21 october and invite member states to report on the situation at national level. so we will continue along this line and, by the way, i should also like to tell you that the information society dg has set up a working group called 'inclusive communications'. so this aspect is taken into account. finally, as regards the concentration of the media, which is dealt with in paragraphs 36 to 42, i support the idea of the perry report that pluralism is an important element in safeguarding democracy. this idea is fully reflected in the charter of fundamental rights. i would also like to point out that one of the issues addressed in the green paper on services of general interest of may 2003 relates precisely to the protection of pluralism. all interested parties are invited to submit their comments by 15 september. the commission will determine its future policy on pluralism on the basis of the conclusions of this consultation process. finally, as regards the other amendments to the directive, i will not be able to comment on all of them today because we have not yet received all the written consultations. we receive new ones every day and i would like to allow my staff to complete the analysis of all these contributions before informing you through the communication on audiovisual policy.
the committee on legal affairs and the internal market has adopted an opinion on the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the legal basis for the directive is established. the rapporteur and i have worked together and i am pleased to say that we are on the same page. the commission must pay particular attention to mr perry's individual proposals in order to go one step further in tackling the interlinked problems associated with the whole audiovisual sector. this year's report is of additional interest compared with previous reports, because its annex proposes a work programme which envisages developing a dialogue with national bodies such as broadcasting organisations, autonomous regulatory authorities, etc. the aim is to revise the directive to keep pace with rapid technological developments, but it has other specific objectives. all these objectives mean that a heavy task awaits the commission and it must convince us of the way in which it will work in order to make all these necessary adjustments. the second conclusion, which we more or less agree with, is the dual role of audiovisual media. these are economic goods and are therefore linked to the issue of competition, to the knowledge society promoted by the lisbon policy. so we need full coordination here. at the same time, they are cultural goods and their promotion must take account of the public interest, such as the protection of minors and the safeguarding of cultural diversity, on the one hand, but on the other hand they must be based on the european interest, which is to safeguard european identity against non-european standards, and especially american standards. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european audiovisual market is not left to the discretion of the member states. the dialogue has begun. it could be public. but i would say it needs more publicity and more visibility. in view of all this, the revision of the 'television without frontiers' directive should be one of the most serious tasks of all three european union institutions, because in addition to clarifying controversial concepts such as the independent producer, etc., it is necessary to ensure the availability of digital options to a wide audience and to promote the coherence of the audiovisual industry policy.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, the constitutional treaty restates in one of its articles the cultural dimension of europe and this constitutional foundation expresses a clear political position. in other words, european culture is a fundamental component of the european economic and social model, indispensable for the completion of the political project of the european union. it is the duty of members of the european parliament to turn this constitutional wording into a practical and effective policy. the report on the cultural industries is one such step. we have broadened our political horizon with some important assumptions concerning the conditions under which european citizens produce and consume cultural products and services. we have shown in the preparation of this report and in the dialogue that took place in the committee on culture with all the colleagues, and i must thank them for this, the central importance of creation and creators as the main source of added value of cultural products. we have taken account of the important economic dimension of culture today, its role in the economic development of regions and cities, its contribution to gdp and employment. we have seen the revolutionary changes brought about by new technologies in many of the sectors of the cultural industry, for example in music, publishing, the audiovisual sector. we have discussed at length the importance of the competitiveness of european products in relation to those from other countries of the world. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the community's cultural heritage. european citizens consume millions of copies of records and books, buy millions of tickets to the cinema and concerts every year. all of this is their cultural food, shaping their profile and cultural identity. citizens also watch programmes on television. on the internet, they're getting information and influence from a huge amount of material called content. through these ways they choose, cultivate and promote one or another form of art and culture, different aesthetics and quality, in close dependence on their education and personal cultivation. it is a complex cultural process which characterizes the daily lives of citizens and one cannot ignore its wider political significance and weight. the enlargement of the union will also give europe an even greater cultural dimension and, at the same time, diversity. the internal market is growing. the works of authors have to overcome several obstacles, such as insufficient distribution and promotion networks, extensive piracy, in order to find their way to european audiences. the european added value is at stake, and this also applies to the thousands of small and mediumsized enterprises active in the various sectors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council to deal with this. there are many, but i'll only stand on three. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one. the cultural, commercial and economic dimensions should be analysed here in order to include the sectors in the concept of cultural or creative industries, as it is called in some countries. i think that will give us a better statistical representation that we don't have right now. the second request we make to the commission is to map the cultural industries at european level. we are asking for it to focus on the cultural, economic, legal, technological and educational aspects, to include employment, intellectual property, the competitiveness network, new products and exports. finally, we believe that it is very important to have a green paper to promote coordination between member states and regions in the field of cultural industries, in order to analyse obstacles, suggest solutions, find ways of cooperation between the public and private sectors, stimulate competitiveness and improve access to culture for european citizens. i would like to believe that this report is only the beginning and that the commission will respond not only to this report but also to the messages of the times by taking the necessary initiatives which have been the concern of the council in recent times.
mr president, i would like to thank our rapporteur for the serious work she has done, but i cannot agree with her approach. in a society where everything is bought and everything is sold, culture is immediately threatened by the commodification that changes its character. cultural creation is no longer the art that is created, either collectively by society or by gifted individuals. it is a product produced for sale, for commercial gain, but also as a means of ideological manipulation of the people by promoting a particular way of life. in these circumstances, to treat culture in terms of industry, the market and value added, as if it were cars or oranges, is very dangerous. the report does indeed express some concerns about cultural diversity, but it is not these that determine its content, but the concerns that european art markets have lost a significant share of the world market, that the european union has not yet developed its capabilities in terms of trade in cultural goods. mergers are considered dangerous not because they result in monopoly control but because they jeopardize the transparency of the market. even piracy is condemned not as theft of intellectual work, but because it deprives significant revenues, affecting future investments. the proposals are in line with the concerns expressed. the report calls for action by the commission and the member states not to promote artistic creation and protect it from commercialisation, but to support businesses and promote the competitiveness of european industries. such intervention will further institutionalize commodification and place culture even more under the control of monopolies. finally, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to draw your attention to the amendments tabled by our political group in an attempt to mitigate some of the effects of the report.
mr president, the report by mrs zorba gives us another important opportunity to realise the importance of the development of cultural industries for the economic and political objectives of the european union and to reflect on our obligations at european, national and local level. their contribution to the lisbon objectives is undeniable. in addition to generating wealth and jobs, cultural industries by their very nature promote initiative and innovation, which are valuable elements for the competitiveness of the european economy. their development can also make a major contribution to the removal of isolation through the development of local communities, because it exploits their comparative advantages and can be easily combined with tourism development and promotion. i would also point out that the cultural industry has sectors which can provide employment opportunities particularly for those who are affected by unemployment, such as young creators or women, as well as for people with disabilities. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the cultural contribution of the structural funds should be assessed, particularly at this time of the mid-term evaluation of the 2000-2006 programming period, so that we can take supplementary or corrective measures, such as the promotion of vocational training, and even the promotion of higher education, because in many countries, such as my own, greece, it is inadequate.
the debate on cuba has shown that the eu's objective is identical to that of the us: the european union has a duty to help the people of europe, and to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe. it has become clear that what the selectively hyper-sensitive eu hypocrites do not forgive in socialist cuba is not the supposed authoritarianism of the socialist regime or its weaknesses, but that cuba, despite open war and the forty-year criminal embargo by the imperialist dictators, continues to improve the living and educational standards of its people - the highest in all of latin america - that socialist cuba and fidel castro are a beacon of light, a source of inspiration for the bright people of the desert and for all of humanity. that is why, while they close their eyes and bow before the daily executions and the thousands of political prisoners, both cuban and american, in israel and elsewhere, while they support cruel dictatorships and genocides, they shed crocodile tears over the fate of the imperialist mercenaries in cuba. they do not forgive the determination of the cuban people, as expressed daily by their fighting unity, to defend to the last their socialist homeland. we stand by him unwaveringly and express our admiration and gratitude.
in writing. - (el) the european pasok group decided to vote against the entire motion, considering that the positions concerning the ban on women's access to mount athos, conscientious objectors and the right of muslims to build mosques and have cemeteries are unjust, unacceptable and at least synonymous with ignorance for the following reasons: 1. the mount athos enjoys a special status guaranteed by joint declaration no 4 on mount athos, which was incorporated into the act of accession of greece to the eec. 2. the the annex to the last act of the treaty of amsterdam contains a declaration recalling the joint declaration on mount athos annexed to the last act of the act of accession of greece to the european communities. 3. the greek legislation on proselytism has been declared in conformity with the european convention on human rights by the european court of human rights. as regards muslim mosques, it is a fact that there are currently 350 mosques and 250 muslim cemeteries, and the procedure for founding an islamic centre and mosques in paiania (attica) is progressing. 4. the article 18 of legislative decree 2936/2001 provides for a reduction in non-armed or civilian service for recognised conscientious objectors who will perform reduced armed service.
in writing. - (el) september 11 has accelerated the measures to enforce the most unpopular choices of the monopolies. it has led to a general breach of human rights and individual freedoms in the european union. workers' rights and the right to free public education and healthcare have been further reduced. the living standards of the working classes have declined. a typical example is the death of more than 14,000 people in france, a country of ... respect for human rights. the reactionary legal arsenal is strengthened by new provisions. political parties such as the communist party are prevented from acting freely and unhindered, particularly in developing countries. the violation of freedom of expression is accompanied by a violation of the right of association with the prohibition and prevention of citizen participation and the terrible suppression of strikes and demonstrations. in the name of the fight against terrorism, electronic records of citizens are being kept under the schengen system, personal data are being transferred to the united states, and mass 'repatriations' of immigrants are increasing. europe has appointed itself as the sheriff of the united states, especially after the signing of the cooperation agreement on criminal cases and extraditions to the united states, where the death penalty and guantanamo remain. however, this report will not go unanswered. workers are opposed to this policy and are fighting for its abolition and for real respect for human rights.
in writing. - (el) in principle, we agree with the rapporteur's conclusion that drinking water should be a social resource, accessible to all, and not a commodity subject to speculation. however, we do not agree with proposals that recognise a positive role for the private sector in water management, whether in the form of mixed management by the public and private sectors or a definition by the state of a legal and institutional framework within which private agencies operate in the water sector. our disagreement is based on the fact that the private sector does not take into account intentions, legal and institutional frameworks and restrictive mechanisms, but operates on the basis of the criterion of profit, thus automatically transforming a social resource into a commodity, with all that this implies, especially for poor nations. we would like to emphasize that, like the food problem, the drinking water problem is first political and then technocratic. radical social changes are therefore needed to deal effectively with this problem. the shortcomings of the various programmes under the present system, which in some cases have exacerbated the problem rather than alleviated it, confirm our position and anticipate the impasse and exacerbation of the problem which will result from the application of the terms and conditions laid down by the international monetary fund for the financing of similar activities in developing countries.
the continued israeli occupation of territories, the repeated murderous operations of the israeli army, its terrorist presence in palestine and arbitrary arrests, coupled with the brutal conditions of detention, the denial of the existence of a palestinian state and the constant violation of the right of self-determination of a people have created an explosive situation in the middle east and a generalized climate of instability and insecurity, maintained and fuelled by us and eu imperialism, provoking the justified palestinian resistance and intensifying suicide attacks. the declaration of an independent palestinian state with jerusalem as its capital is a necessary precondition for any real attempt to achieve peace and to restore a climate of security for palestinians and israelis. the european parliament, the council and the commission have all agreed that the european union should be the first to take action in the fight against terrorism, and that the european union should be the first to take action in the fight against terrorism. the peoples of europe are fighting for peace, against imperialist military interventions such as in yugoslavia, afghanistan and iraq, against cooperation and support by israel in the belligerent strategy of violating the rights of the palestinians, and will overturn with their struggle the militarization of europe which will further strengthen imperialism against the peoples.
mr president, for two years the so-called international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia has been trying to establish the charges against slobodan milosevic. despite hundreds of false witnesses and a host of fabricated evidence, the prosecution is headed for a fiasco. the only thing that the perpetrators of the persecution and those who hide behind them have achieved is to destroy the health of president milosevic, perhaps in anticipation of his physical extermination. the new element is that, with the completion of the indictment, the deadline given to milosevic to prepare his own side of the case was only three months, at a time when his health condition is known and he has no outside help, refusing to legitimize the whole process. at the same time, he was forbidden to receive visits from members of his party and the committees that support it. the communist party of greece condemns in the strongest terms the accumulated violations of fundamental rights against mr milosevic and calls for the trial to be suspended for two years, for him to be released and for him to return to belgrade to recuperate and prepare. we are certain, mr president, that however much the imperialists try to justify their crimes in yugoslavia by distorting the truth, they will not succeed!
mr president, i would like to report that last week two more workers were killed in greece and two others were seriously injured in the mines of the president of the federation of greek industries, mr kyriakopoulos. these two deaths come on top of six others killed in similar work accidents and dozens injured in the month of september alone. mr president, it seems that workers in the countries of the european union, and i am speaking of greece in particular, are really considered expendable material and their lives and health are sacrificed on the altar of the pursuit of maximum profit by big business. i have the impression that this intolerable situation, mr president, is not confined to greece. the evidence is that in greece it may be more intense. and there are hundreds of those who lose their lives and thousands of those who are injured every year in my country alone. imagine what is happening across the european union. if you think that this is consistent with the generous declarations on employment, on health and safety at work, then we are really deluded. that is why, mr president, we believe that this is yet another indication of the system in which we live and of the brutality of that system towards people who seek to earn their living honestly.
mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, the work done by the rapporteur, mr sterckx, whom i congratulate, and by all of us in the transport committee, has shown that the problem we are dealing with, that of safety in shipping, is a complex, difficult, multifaceted issue. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european maritime safety agency, the establishment of a european maritime safety agency and the establishment of a european maritime safety agency. the fact that double-hulled vessels are not a panacea is a fact which should be underlined and the safety of these vessels should also be examined. the tax incentives for returning ships to the flags of the member states are also a particularly important factor, because in this way we can limit vessels with flags of convenience. the need to finally have a common language for navigation between seafarers and all those involved in the sector, as in aviation, and the point made in the report that seafarers should not be the scapegoats in the event of shipwrecks is something that should also be underlined, at least from my point of view. it is also necessary to emphasize in the report what our committee is calling for, namely independent committees of inquiry into shipwrecks, so that there are no ambiguities in the investigation of the causes, and, of course, something which has long been pointed out by parliament, namely that there should be a special activity of both the member states and the commission in the international maritime organization, so that it can become more active. the sterckx report mentions these and many other things, but it also points out something else: that there is a problem in the application of the legislation already in force. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. for example, there is a problem with waste disposal in ports. there is community legislation which is not respected by at least five member states. the commissioner herself referred to the ports of refuge. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the application of the directive. there's a problem with the port controls. there is a problem in the compliance of some member states with the requirements of the legislation for neo-experts. there is a problem in the council itself with regard to a regulation which we are now discussing in our committee on criminal sanctions in the event of shipwrecks. the council has asked us to move in this direction and it seems that the council will come shortly to tell our rapporteur, mr pex, that we are not ready to discuss such an arrangement. in view of these, many of which have emerged since the report was voted in committee, our political group is therefore asking for an interim committee to come and see how the legislation, particularly the errika i and ii packages, is implemented at european level. we must look at why the legislation is not being applied and stress to the member states that they must move in this direction as quickly as possible. that is the purpose of our amendment and i would like to call on all the political groups to vote for it, because any other amendment which focuses specifically on the prestige shipwreck issue does not, i think, constitute the regulation which should be adopted in the context of this report. firstly, because the prestige issue has already been discussed. what's new to come back to tell? it is as if we were cancelling the work of the rapporteur himself, mr sterckx, and of our entire committee. secondly, because any committee of inquiry is there to create a legal problem. it's not officially called a review board. it is called a temporary committee, but disguised as one examining the causes of the prestige shipwreck, it is in fact a committee of inquiry and therefore poses a legal problem because there is a judicial procedure in progress in a member state, which is contrary to parliament's rules of procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. to look to the forest, which is the safety of navigation, and not to the tree, which is the prestige. if we insist on the prestige issue forever, we will simply be transferring the internal spanish quarrel to brussels and strasbourg. i do not think that this is a good thing for the european parliament.
madam president, the seriousness of the energy supply problem is shown by the recent imperialist invasion of iraq and the quarrel before and afterwards over the division of the spoils. the specific issue of oil and gas reserves which we are discussing here cannot provide a solution to the overall problem, especially when it is dealt with in the context of the liberalized market and not in terms of meeting the needs of the people. the main issue of the new directive is not whether the compulsory stocks will be for three or four months, but the shifting of the control of stocks and the regulatory responsibility from the member states to the european commission. if this is accepted, it will further undermine the possibility of energy planning in line with the needs of each member state and lead to a structuring of the energy sector in accordance with the choices of the powerful forces of the european union. the communist party of greece believes that each country must take measures to reduce energy dependence, to exploit domestic sources, to develop and exploit new forms of energy, with the aim of ensuring cheap popular consumption and environmental protection. it is more than obvious, however, that a radically different socioeconomic context is a necessary prerequisite for such energy planning.
mr president, the election of the new president of the european central bank and the opinion of the european parliament on this election is an act of sovereignty of the peoples of europe and must be treated with all the necessary seriousness. it is a matter of principle that the european parliament should be elected by direct universal suffrage. it would then have greater authority and greater validity. the house today has the economic committee's affirmative proposal and there is no doubt about the professional competence of the nominee. on the contrary, his impressive career to date offers every guarantee of his personal abilities. the same cannot, unfortunately, be said of the economic philosophy that the candidate for president of the european central bank has so tenaciously defended in the economic committee. i am still at a loss to understand how an economist with mr trichet's vast experience could argue that in a period of prolonged economic stagnation, increased public spending can damage the recovery of the economy. and he resorted to various theoretical sophistries, whereas it has been known since at least 1910 that the classic antidote to recessions and unemployment is public works. i think mr trichet would agree that without investment the economic engine cannot be restarted and i think he too would see the backlog of private investment and the need to give a boost with public investment, as mr chirac and mr schröder have finally realised, albeit belatedly. but if this philosophy was enough to vote against mr trichet last week, i am afraid that is no longer the case, because the shocking fact of the swedish people's rejection of the euro has forced us all to rally around the symbols of the stability of the single currency, and that is why i consider it my duty - and i think i am at least speaking for my greek colleagues who share my views - to support and vote for mr trichet. i hope, however, that he will be forced by events to adopt a different attitude and attitude, because the central bankers cannot in their attitude say what mr lipietz said, 'après moi le déluge', but neither 'avant moi le déluge, pendant moi le déluge, et après moi dieu nous sauve'.
mr president, i should like to thank mr sterckx for his initiative and to say that i regret the attitude of the socialists. we shall obviously be returning to vote on his original amendment which, i am sorry to say, is contrary both to article 193 of the treaty and to article 151 of our rules of procedure, because it essentially provides for a hidden committee of inquiry. i think we are voting against the treaties and the rules of procedure.
in writing. - (el) i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution which takes a series of important measures for the safety of the seas, such as:- the creation of refuges for vessels in distress,- the creation of european coastguards for strict surveillance, compliance with the rules and the prosecution of those responsible,- regular investigations of high-risk vessels,- the creation of a special anti-pollution fleet,- the creation of special areas for ecologically sensitive areas.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on a budget for 2004, which is in some ways historic, since it will be the first budget for a united europe. before i mention three points, i should like to say to mrs weiler that i have taken note of the perspectives she has outlined, which were more concerned with the future regional policy, its qualification, the implementation of this regional and cohesion policy in relation to the objectives of lisbon or gothenburg. this is precisely what the college is discussing at the moment in preparing the future financial perspective and in preparing the content and proposals of the third cohesion report. i thank you very much for the impetus you have given. i would therefore like to mention three points, mr president: the programmes for 2000-06, the closure of the 1994-99 period and the consequences of enlargement for structural policies. firstly, the programmes for 2000-06 are, frankly, catching up. we see the fruits of the simplification efforts we have proposed and engaged in with the member states. payments for 2000-06 were made more quickly than before. at the end of august, we had already paid 25% more than in 2002 at the same time of year. for the first time, payments for 2000-06 could even be higher than forecast and i plan to ask for an increase in objective 1 appropriations of at least €1 billion in the end-of-year global transfer. this is also the effect of the n+2 rule, which we alerted the ministers to on 22 april last, as i informed your committees. between 1 january and 1 september, governments reduced the wall of payment appropriations that had to be swallowed to avoid redundancies. to avoid any redundancy, i will write to each of the governments again and they will have to submit another 5 billion payments by the end of the year. it will be done, if i believe their forecasts, but, ladies and gentlemen, to be quite frank, i no longer have much faith in the forecasts of the member states when i receive them. however, italy, which has accustomed us to miracles, represents 40% of the work that still needs to be done. three states alone account for 80% of the effort needed. in contrast, in austria, spain and greece the risk is very low, so there is no fatality. secondly, the 1994-1999 closure. this is a difficult point, as i have often said in your house. the fence will be longer than planned. the commission received on 31 march only almost all of the approximately 2 000 files to be closed under these 1994-1999 programmes. i want the necessary checks to be carried out and any corrections that may be necessary after these checks to be carried out to the end. so i don't want to sloppy-close these programs. given the delays needed to ensure the quality of the controls and the contradictory nature of the procedures and despite, ladies and gentlemen, the diligence of my services and the commission's services, we will not be able to pay the full amount of the appropriations for 1994-1999 in 2003. this is the main reason for the delays which mr van dam has just mentioned. this means that there is a risk of at least eur 5 billion of under-implementation in 2003 for the structural funds as a whole. as soon as i identified this risk in july, i alerted my colleague michaele schreyer. together we will soon propose to the commission that it submit to the budgetary authority a draft amending budget in order to cancel without delay the appropriations which are not used. the actual amount to be cancelled has yet to be specified by ms schreyer's services, who alone have an overall view of the budget, in order to identify any needs to be covered by the end of the year on other budget lines. however, ladies and gentlemen, i confirm my commitment to reduce the balance to be paid in two ways: on the one hand, by cancelling commitments which are not covered by a request for payment, for example, when the project has been abandoned or when it has cost less than planned (in this respect, exemptions are already being prepared); the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their views on the commission's proposals. between payments and disbursements, i set myself the objective, i can confirm that, of splitting, in 2003, at least by two the balance to be paid in 1994-1999 for the erdf. i think that these few explanations on this point are in line with mr seppänen's request. the failure of the 1994-1999 management is precisely the absence, mr seppänen, of what you have called a sunset clause. we have it today with the new n+2 rule and it is beginning to bear fruit. the third and final point is the impact of enlargement on structural policies. the commission's first priority is to ensure that this enlargement to ten new member states is a success. cohesion policy is also at the forefront. our great challenge is to complete, before the end of 2003, the negotiations with all the new member states on the programmes which will have to be operational in a few months' time for the very short period 2004-06. enlargement is therefore already part of the daily life of our directorates-general responsible for the structural funds and your constant support - but i will still need it for the crucial period ahead - has enabled me to anticipate the commission's commitments. what are the budgetary implications of this enlargement? for commitment appropriations, the structural funds and the cohesion fund, in addition to the 34 billion for the current member states, an additional amount of €6.7 billion is foreseen for the new member states. this represents an increase of about 20%. in terms of human resources, the posts required to ensure the success of this enlargement are, it seems to me, limited. if you follow the commission's requests, the directorates-general concerned would only increase their staff by 7% to cope with the 20% increase in appropriations. this increase in our administrative capacity is a minimum because these countries are not yet used to community programmes. they will therefore need more support, more guidance, and more controls than the current members. this is my objective response to mrs gill's observation that we should achieve economies of scale. very frankly, you cannot combine a mission in poland with a mission in spain. in any case, i thank you for your support in securing the human resources needed in 2004 and beyond to ensure the success of our cohesion policy. in conclusion, mr president, what are the consequences of all this for the payment appropriations needed for 2004? there is no real debate on enlargement. as agreed in copenhagen, payment appropriations for the new member states in 2004 were limited to advances. for the 2000-06 programmes, your rapporteur, mr mulder, proposes to increase payment appropriations by 3 billion. if the member states' forecasts are to be believed, this will be necessary. it is true that if the member states manage to avoid any releases under the n+2 rule, then we would need an additional billion for the erdf alone. as you can see, the commission has adopted a prudent and realistic approach in the light of the implementation of previous years. i do not think that we will be able to avoid some exemptions under the n+2 rule in 2004. it will be necessary to get used to incorporating them in our forecasts. if payment appropriations were insufficient for the 2000-06 structural funds and for the closure of the 1994-1999 period, the commission would then request an additional amending budget in the 2004 financial year. finally, for the 1994-1999 programmes, it is clear that we will need appropriations in 2004 to complete the closure beyond the commission's preliminary draft budget. i cannot say how much these appropriations will amount to. the checks in progress will certainly lead to reductions in the amounts to be paid, either by excluding amounts which are not legitimate or by applying financial corrections. in the final analysis, and on the basis of the information i have, an increase in payment appropriations under heading 2 would not be illegitimate, even if it did not go as far as mr mulder proposes. at this stage, however, i would prefer to put the member states on their toes and to lead them to finally make realistic forecasts, even if we increase the appropriations under management by means of an amending budget when we have all the data. finally, mr dell'alba, we had a very important dialogue and, like my colleague mr vitorino this morning, i paid a lot of attention to it. i can confirm that of the 12 million available this year for information on the great debate on the future of europe, 8.3 million are being committed or have been committed. there are still 3.7 million to be redeployed. i will endeavour, as i have promised mr vitorino, to propose that this money be spent by the end of the year, perhaps in partnership with parliament, on an information campaign or on the preparation of documentation to explain the outcome of the convention and, i hope, the outcome of the intergovernmental conference, but also to show how the new institutional architecture we are about to achieve can be useful for concrete policies in favour of citizens. we are thinking of a new document - we have discussed this with some officials in parliament this morning - which could be made available to members of parliament and candidates for the european elections, to show concretely what this new constitution is and how it can be useful for concrete policies at the service of the citizens. that is the information i wanted to give on the specific point raised by mr dell'alba.
mr president, speaking of the matters concerning the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, i should like to begin with the matters raised by commissioner barnier, the regional policy issues, to say that here, as regards the previous period 1994-99, as he himself admitted, there are no more favourable developments. there is a delay in closing the files, with responsibility basically for the member states, which have been late in submitting all the required information and, in any event, when they do submit it, they do not submit it in the most correct way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the contrary, the new programming period 2000-2006 has seen more positive developments, although we must of course be very careful here too. i was pleased to note that this year we are doing better than last year in terms of absorbing appropriations and i would like to believe that the n+2 rule, despite the criticism it sometimes receives even here in parliament, is a rule which can lead the member states to sound management in terms of programming and managing funds. it is also important to remember that it was the member states themselves who, by unanimously adopting the current structural funds regulation, came to accept this n+2 rule. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for consumers is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. as regards the other subjects, i would like to focus on the transeuropean networks and say that, even after the van miert report of 30 june this year and pending the proposal for the revision of the transeuropean networks, our committee wishes to stress their importance and to stress that words and deeds must one day be the same. if we want to promote transeuropean networks, we must also find ways of financing them, and one of the ways is obviously the community budget. i would also like to raise the question of the european maritime safety agency, whose seat has not yet been determined. the fact that the seat of this agency has not been determined should not lead us to conclude that we should not fund it. we must put the funds in reserve so that when the seat is determined we are ready to finance this service, which will play a particularly important role in those matters of maritime safety which have been our concern this morning. i would also like to stress the importance of two issues which i think are not being given the attention they should be. the first is tourism, where we believe that some pilot projects should be financed to give particular support to small and mediumsized enterprises in the sector, and the second, which is sometimes underestimated, is transport safety, where, again, we believe that we could proceed with some increase in funds.
the european union considers that pensions are another expenditure which must be cut in the context of the budgetary discipline imposed by the stability pact, without regard to the needs of remote workers. the ageing of the population is being used as a pretext to raise the retirement age, to extend the working life, to reduce pensions, to decouple them from wages, and to increase workers' financial contributions. at the same time, the european union and the member states, with the recent reforms, are using pensions to support the profitability of big business. they reduce employers' offers and offer them the resources and reserves of funds, promote the spread of occupational pension funds, force workers to rely on private insurance schemes, thus exposing their pensions to the risks of the financial markets. we are in favour of a different policy, one in which pensions are adapted to modern social needs. we are asking, together with the workers, for a reduction in the retirement age and working life, for the funds to be financed from the state budget and for the employers' contributions to be increased, while the workers' contributions are reduced. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to turnover taxes is a very important one. the principle is well known that a large capital market offers more liquidity and more financial depth. it can also offer greater competitiveness and therefore better prices to traders. in this way it encourages investors and investment and the increase in investment has a clear economic significance, on which we all agree. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission proposal supports the integration of the capital market in the so-called 'european passport', i.e. it gives investment banks the right to develop their activities in all 15 member states, having complied with the rules of authorization in one state only and not in 15. but the commission has supplemented this proposal with the thought that, for a capital market without frontiers to really work, traders must feel the same security wherever they place their investments in europe. this is the reason why the commission is introducing common rules on the fair and transparent conduct of business, market integrity and the right of investors to fair and equitable treatment by banks and brokers. rules always settle conflicting interests. the interests are currently liquid, because technology, but also the concentration of banking capital in large corporations is creating new conditions, conditions where banks are being transformed into stock exchanges with internal transactions and stock exchanges are being transformed from infrastructure into businesses. this raises the risk of market fragmentation, which the directive, in one of its most controversial provisions, seeks to overcome by requiring investment banks to communicate with the market in a transparent manner both before and after the close of their commercial operations. the commission proposal has generally struck a good balance between the various interests and technological developments. the debate and the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy generally strengthen the work of the commission, thanks also to the enormous contribution of the rapporteur, whom i would like to congratulate on her efforts and her conciliatory attitude. i hope that this conciliatory attitude will prevail to the end and that the amendments tabled by our group will be supported so that the report can be adopted by a large majority.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the european parliament's work is therefore the beginning of the constitutional history of the european union. in the draft we are submitting to you, my distinguished and respected colleague mr gil-robles and i propose that the european parliament should take the following three positions: firstly, parliament demands that the institution of the convention be recognized as an achievement and as an asset. the preparation of the revision of the treaties is, for the first time in the history of the european union, the task of a political body. secondly, despite the imperfections and shortcomings of the draft convention, the european parliament, as mr gil-robles has pointed out, asks the intergovernmental conference not to reopen the package of basic compromises agreed there. if, on the other hand, the intergovernmental conference were to dissociate itself politically from the plan, it would undermine this institutional achievement, and the result of the review would, i fear, be no different from the fiasco of nice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would mention, for example, fundamental rights, the safeguarding of the fundamental values of the european union, the social state, culminating in the objective of full employment, the upgrading of the european parliament, the constitutionalisation and simplification of the content of the treaties, the increased safeguarding of transparency, the use of national parliaments, the extension of qualified majority voting and many others. thirdly, the draft constitution of the assembly has serious weaknesses, as the honourable member, mr gil-robles, has pointed out. i would like to mention the following as an example: firstly, the institution of the president of the european council does not leave intact either the balance between the institutions, the functioning of the european commission or the equivalence of the states. it is an institution with a democratic deficit, and the corresponding abolition of the rotating presidency affects the equality of the states. secondly, the composition of the commission of 25 commissioners, who are divided into full and incomplete, is, if i may use the word, teratogenic. the attempt to buy the 'yes' to the introduction of the institution of the president of the european council by offering more, if not fewer, commissioners is clear here. thirdly, there has been a lack of substantive steps in foreign and security policy which would allow the european union to restore its credibility internationally. ladies and gentlemen, so is there criticism? is that a contradiction ? i believe that this is not a contradiction for three reasons. firstly, the constitutional texts are not static. they are based on concepts such as freedom, democracy, fundamental rights, equality, the rule of law, the welfare state, i.e. concepts which are based on political and social struggles under constant historical development of their content. let our criticism be considered as a contribution to this development. secondly, the european parliament, should the matter nevertheless be opened, cannot fail to have expressed its own views. the third reason is that we are not calling on the european people to support the constitutional text because they will be unaware of its shortcomings, but because they are aware of these shortcomings and because of its advantages. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the subject is by its nature historical, philosophical, moral and has a metaphysical basis, so it concerns each of us. so, in closing, i venture a personal point: i recognize the crucial role of christianity in shaping european civilization, i recognize the need to preserve the authority of its teaching, but it would be a reduction of christianity and an underestimation of its persuasiveness to accept that it needs constitutional support. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. ladies and gentlemen, i wish the regiment a safe, safe and long journey. i wish him luck in times of trouble. i believe that his first port of call must be to regain his political credibility, the political credibility of the european union. it is the one that has been so wounded by the alliance of some of its members with the united states, which is blamed for the illegal invasion of iraq under the pretext of terrorism. finally, i would like to thank my esteemed co-rapporteur, president gil-robles, and the excellent secretariat of the committee, as well as our colleagues. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
i share the analysis and the proposals of our two rapporteurs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. one of them is the review process. it is not possible, mr president, for half the treaty, 150 articles in part three, to have a status which cannot be revised, because that would result in the provisions we are proposing, namely that policies should be a status. it's not possible! it is against any political development in europe in any direction! secondly, it is not possible to proceed with the budget as it stands. what we teach first-year business school students here we make a mockery of. is it possible to have a budget that says: 'you have this money and then decide what policies you will make' instead of saying what policies we want and then seeing which budget will serve them? the third point is that the assembly itself has not accepted it and i think that the intergovernmental conference, as defined by the minister for finance, is not proceeding. but where will the cohesion of the euro zone, the symmetry between economic and monetary policy, come from? the european union is not a political union, but a political union. i think it's a big mistake and we'll find it in front of us too. the same applies to the lack of courage in matters of security and defence. i am not going to go back to that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i can't figure out which of these religions want to be listed for value. and why should we refer to the really important history of christianity and not, say, the history of free thought? even - even anticlericalism, which inspired the enlightenment, which inspired revolutions, both intellectual and political, in europe. and why not mention the very big names ? for me the face of europe is aristotle, it is erasmus, it is mozart, it is marx, it is freud. are we going to impose these on our citizens? let us leave our citizens the plurality of choice for their lives and their future course. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity.
mr president, i wish to protest against mr brok's intervention. he was talking about the substance. there's no more discussion today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - (el) the members of the greek communist party voted against the recommendation to the council on the situation in iraq because, while the recommendation does not say a word about the invasion and occupation of iraq, it welcomes the efforts made by the bush administration to break the impasse while condemning the resistance put up by the iraqi people and calling it terrorism. it proposes to place the iraqi people under international supervision until they are ripe for democracy. two elements illustrate this point perfectly, namely:- paragraph 1.8 speaks of the need to establish a multinational military and police force mandated by the united nations, with the cooperation of nato. the 'political calendar' is thus a repetition of the 'bosnia and herzegovina' argument (the six-month calendar, which has been in force for 10 years). - mr brok requested and obtained the rejection of all the amendments calling for the immediate withdrawal of the occupying forces, the assumption of responsibility by the un, the restoration of the sovereignty of the iraqi people, as well as the amendments referring to the illegality of the invasion of iraq and the lack of evidence of the existence of weapons of mass destruction. the fact that only the meps of the european united left (45) voted in favour of these amendments, with 420 votes against and 68 abstentions, shows the hypocrisy of all those who, while pretending to be fighting for the rights of the iraqi people, give their blessing to the occupation, oppression and plunder of this people. we hand them over to the judgment of our people.
in writing. - (el) the report and amendments of the legal affairs committee on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions create a stifling environment for the creative capacities of scientists and small software companies, and will ultimately work only in favour of the industrial giants, who have thousands of invention patents and huge legal departments to stifle small businesses, including the free environment conducive to innovation. the european union will thus follow the path of supporting the industrial giants that the united states has taken over. patents should have nothing to do with algorithms or business methods. this should be clear. the only restriction should be on inventions of a technical/material nature. despite the improvements achieved in plenary, the lack of transparency remains and that is why i voted against.
in writing. - (el) the directive we are considering today allows any type of software to be patented. the objective is clear: to strengthen and consolidate the economic/political centres of control, the monopoly of information and the processing of this information by the multinationals active in the field of software. the result is easy to see: the strangulation of small and medium-sized enterprises and independent programmers. the adoption of this directive will mark the de jure acceptance of the requirements of the widespread 'patent industry' in the united states, will discourage research and development and will lead to a huge waste of resources in legal protection proceedings, instead of investing them in technological innovation. the patent protection of software will have a painful effect on the end user/consumer, who will be called upon to pay for the growing profits of the monopoly firms and will, at the same time, have fewer choices and fewer opportunities to use more sophisticated software. for the reasons mentioned above, we, the members of the communist party of greece, voted against the directive and the corresponding report of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, and we are on the side of those who call for free and accessible software.
in writing. - (el) professor tsatsos' views on the eu's constitutional enterprise are interesting, useful and progressive. if these views had been included in the report and the proposal which he drafted with his colleague mr gil-robles, i think i would have voted in favour. however, when one reads this proposal, one has the impression that the corners have been rounded, that compromises have been made at any cost, that the proposal betrays a 'realism' totally devoid of the democratic spirit characteristic of the articles written by the greek rapporteur. in this way, the european parliament unfortunately lags behind the european commission itself in major institutional matters, such as the number or role of commissioners or the presidency of the council. so, despite the very useful ideas contained in the proposal, such as the role of the european parliament and national parliaments, or the development of social policy or referendums, i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. - (el) the european parliament's proposal on the introduction of a 'constitution for europe' is intended to cover up, at parliamentary level, an attempt to deceive citizens on a large scale. it presents as a 'constitution' a text which not only fails to safeguard democratic achievements but, as we have repeatedly denounced, adds new links to the chains of the maastricht, amsterdam and nice treaties, which have enabled large companies to bind the workers of the eu member states. the institutionalisation of the market economy, the increased militarisation of the eu - in cooperation with nato - which goes as far as preventive intervention under the pretext of the terrorist threat, the redistribution of power in favour of the powerful, or even the transfer of greater national sovereignty to the international centre, are some of the 'gifts' that the intergovernmental conference will make to the monopolists. this new attempt is in perfect harmony with the current policies, the blow to the workers' conquests, the successive terrorist laws, the interventions against peoples all over the world. we cannot fail to stress that the undemocratic procedure followed in drafting the text is a true model of democracy and transparency. the greek communist party is categorically opposed to the introduction of a european constitution which strengthens the imperialist eu. he trusts in the struggle of the peoples, which will demolish the edifice of the exploiters and radically change society.
mr president, a few days ago the un general assembly, with the only negative votes of the marshall islands, micronesia, israel and the united states, adopted the well-known resolution on arafat. this resolution, interpreted politically, not only has the narrow sense of what arafat means and what a problem it is today, but it also expresses the demand of the international community that there should finally be a solution to this crisis that has been deadlocked for 40, 50, 60 years, with thousands of dead, thousands of murders. what we discuss today or not is irrelevant to what needs to be done there. we are a political body here. we're not trying to be a trial of intent. in this sense, we should only talk politically about what is to be born. we talk about one road map in relation to the course of the region and we do not see the other road map, the road map of violence, of blood, of suicides, of murders of innocents, etc., of the wall, of anything else. in recent days, there has been a new representative of the european union in the region, mr otte, but unfortunately he is being treated negatively by sharon because he refuses to receive him, as he refused to receive our other representatives because they wanted to see arafat. it's not a positive development. we have to give some positive messages. the quartet is not enough, it's not enough as a set of observers. it has to be turned into a task force that enforces terms and conditions and procedures. otherwise, every time, we'll come here, we'll say our pain, other than his safety, other than his sympathies, but with no final result. i therefore agree with mr poettering's proposal that international observers, with blue helmets, should be stationed at the border between the two countries, as has been done elsewhere in the world. i agree with all the proposals that do not have us as neutral observers, that do not lead us to inaction. i agree with all the proposals which finally call for us to take action on our own responsibility and not just wait to follow other directives.
- we have the honour to welcome to the official gallery mr abdou diouf, former president of the republic of senegal and president of the international organisation of the francophonie. the international organisation of la francophonie contributes through its activities to a rapprochement between peoples in the context of respect for cultural diversity. mr diouf, i welcome you and your delegation to the european parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
- this debate is over. the following shall be considered as a written declaration:
- the agenda calls for the statements by the council and the commission on the outcome of the world trade organisation conference in cancun from 10 to 14 september 2003.
mr president, the wto is the main imperialist mechanism which imposes on international trade the terms of the multinationals, the full liberalization and opening up of markets. the result is a widening gap between rich and poor, despite the growth of international trade. the failure of cancun shows that the wto cannot play this role unhindered, which is undoubtedly a positive. resistance is growing both in the streets and in the negotiating rooms. new players are coming in, claiming positions in the game. the internal capitalist contradictions are growing. the solution is not to reform one way or another, but to touch the very foundations of the wto. the european union went to cancun having sacrificed the interests of small and mediumsized farmers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i suggest. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i must first of all inform you that my colleague, the minister responsible for this matter, mr lunardi, has unfortunately been detained in rome for important governmental commitments and will therefore not be able to take part in this debate. i shall therefore be brief in making a few comments on this important subject. the council first of all reaffirms its commitment to the development strategy established by the gothenburg european council in 2001. in this respect, our aim is to ensure the sustainability of transport, to address increasing traffic volumes and levels of congestion, noise and pollution, and to promote the use of environmentally friendly modes of transport, as well as the full internationalisation of social and environmental costs. as the european council has stressed, a key instrument for achieving this objective is the development of the trans-european transport networks, with a view to giving priority, where appropriate, to investments in infrastructure for public transport and railways, inland waterways, short sea shipping, intermodal operations and effective interconnection, i.e. the promotion of the development of modes of transport which are less harmful to the environment. the existing guidelines for the development of trans-european transport networks already identify as one of the objectives of the network the ensuring of sustainable mobility of people and goods, while contributing to the achievement of community objectives, in particular in the field of the environment and competition. in this respect, the integration of environmental concerns into project design and development has been set as a priority objective of the development of the network. in general, council directive 85/337/eec of 27 june 1985 requires member states to take account of the protection of the environment by carrying out environmental impact assessments when developing and implementing projects. in addition, an environmental assessment of plans and programmes drawn up in preparation for such projects, in particular those financed by the community, is carried out in accordance with directive 2001/42/ec of 27 june 2001 on the assessment of the effects of certain plans and programmes on the environment. a fully integrated transport network is a prerequisite for the effective free movement of goods and passengers and links islands, peripheral or isolated areas with central regions. a modern, interconnected and interoperable network ensures, through better use of transport, increased trade and the competitiveness of the european economy as a whole. until the necessary infrastructure is in place and a proper regulatory framework for the effective management of the network is in place, the concepts of the internal market and territorial cohesion of the union will remain incomplete. the inclusion in the maastricht treaty of a title devoted to the policy on transeuropean networks has given the european community the necessary powers and instruments for their development. under article 154 of the treaty establishing the european community, the community contributes to the establishment and development of trans-european networks in the fields of transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure. the above is intended to contribute both to the creation of an internal market and to economic and social cohesion, although this requires first of all the development of the interconnection and interoperability of national networks. the past decade has seen not only a worrying increase in traffic congestion in urban areas, but also a new phenomenon of congestion on the main arteries of the transeuropean network. according to the commission, the external costs of congestion due to road traffic alone represent 0.5% of the eu's gdp. this assessment is all the more alarming if we consider that transport demand will continue to increase substantially in the future. if no measures are taken between now and 2010 to rationalise the use and maximise the benefits of each mode of transport, heavy goods traffic on rubber alone in the eu-15 could increase by 50% compared with 1998. this is a problem not only for the member states but also for the countries applying for accession to the community, as the market share of railways has been gradually declining and road transport has increased by almost 20% between 1990 and 1998. in the new context of sustainable development, the gothenburg european council of june 2001 called for the future emphasis to be placed on the development of rail, maritime and inland waterway transport. ten countries are due to join the european union in may 2004, while romania and bulgaria are expected to join in 2007. these prospects highlight the need for new infrastructure in the corridors serving other countries, with a view to effectively connecting them to the transeuropean network of the current 15 member states. there is also a need to improve links between these countries. a new infrastructure network in the east-west and north-south directions must therefore be created. it should also be recalled that the council conclusions on the second review of the council strategy on the integration of environmental needs and sustainable development into transport policy, adopted by transport ministers in december 2002, stressed the importance of analysing new policy proposals from the point of view of the environmental impact and the community's ability to reduce the harmful impacts on the environment of the transport sector. in support of this approach, i would remind you that at the same meeting last december the council approved the marco polo programme, which is intended to finance the improvement of the environmental performance of the freight transport system. the programme provides for the financing of initiatives to transfer freight transport from road to other modes such as rail, inland waterway and maritime cabotage. the objective of promoting sustainable development through efforts to rebalance modes of transport in favour of environmentally friendly modes of transport will therefore be a key criterion for the council when, in the coming months, it examines the commission proposal for the revision of the ten guidelines and the priority projects contained therein. in this context, the council considers that the conclusions of the high level group, chaired by former commissioner van miert, are in line with the strategic guidelines for sustainable and balanced development, which is concerned with protecting the environment and at the same time desires to promote the unity of europe through the free movement of people and goods, the reduction of natural barriers, the balance of the east-west and north-south axes, and considers that infrastructure investment, suitably accompanied by public-private partnership initiatives, can be a formidable tool for supporting economic growth. the case of some countries is emblematic in this respect, for which the problem of crossings remains and continues to cause considerable economic damage to the country's production system. that is why we must continue to call on the commission to solve these problems. the council therefore urges the commission to present its proposal for the revision of the tens as soon as possible, so that a common position can be adopted after a broad political debate.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we all agree that efficient transeuropean networks should be established linking eastern and western europe and northern europe with the south, we all agree that the issue of congestion should be tackled, we all agree that emphasis should be placed on environmentally friendly and more environmentally friendly modes of transport and we all agree that further emphasis should be placed on railways. the problem is when we start getting into specific issues. there we find that there is a dystocia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not subject to the same restrictions as the other railways. the same applies to priority projects. we had the essen council. you know that 14 transeuropean networks of absolute priority were approved and after a few years we find that half of them are not moving forward. so many times you find that we are making plans on paper. and this is all the more impressive when you consider that some of these projects are about what we are talking about now, which is respecting the environment and tackling traffic congestion in some of the most sensitive areas of our continent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and here we have to look at the question of funding. in a few days' time, the european commission will no doubt come to us and tell us that it is proposing a new project which revises the orientations of the transeuropean networks. we shall therefore adopt some priority projects together. but if we do not finance these projects effectively, it is certain that as transport volumes increase, things will soon be much worse and europe's road network will be even more burdened. this will also undermine growth. we should therefore look at how the member states will assume their responsibilities and how the union budget will finance european networks more effectively, and what role the european investment bank can play in this regard. i hope that the italian presidency, which is particularly sensitive to this issue, will be able to move effectively in this direction because, believe me, mr minister, other times in this parliament there have been discussions of this kind but the results have not been particularly impressive. i hope you will lead the european union down a different path.
mr president, mr perry has made a statement and presented some facts about the lloyds case. the commissioner has given us a number of enlightening explanations today which are indeed valuable. and mr. cashman is questioning mr. perry's evidence as well. what does that tell us ? that our subject at this moment is not the merits of the case, nor are we a court. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be able to accept it. that's all we're about. i take this opportunity to make a general comment, because today we had the reports from the ombudsman and the committee on petitions. the lloyds case came to the committee on petitions with citizen petitions. the ombudsman was also involved, as the commissioner said, in the question of whether the commission had done its job well. and, of course, it is also a matter of applying community law. what does that tell us ? that the two twin rights of complaint and of referral are interrelated. so the debate must not be separated. secondly, with these two reports, the whole question of the proper application of community law is involved, that is to say whether this report should also be discussed together today. i therefore propose that parliament, the commission and my colleagues consider examining these reports together, because they are the only reports which directly concern the european citizen. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. that way, we can be credible and say we're actually interested in his rights. now, what we are asking is that after five years, we should at least have a clear picture of what is happening. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we don't know at this point who's right. the commission's oligarchy is also real. and so, i'll put the broad theme. the committee on petitions often delays its final findings because we have a time-consuming procedure on the part of the commission in relation to petitions. can we not shorten this period so that we too can be more credible to the european citizens who come to us and say that it has been a year and a half and we have not received a reply? the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
mr president, i would like to support what the perry report proposes, having noted earlier that commissioner bolkestein has indeed provided a great deal of updated information and clarification on this subject. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the british government apparently transposed into national law, very late, the directive which should have applied to great britain on the subject of private insurance covering the lloyd's case. it's also questionable whether he transmitted it correctly. in addition, questions arise as to whether it is being applied correctly and whether it is being consistently enforced. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and that the community's financial interests are protected, and that the community's financial interests are protected. so many of them were completely destroyed, we're talking about vast fortunes, and some of them were driven by despair to suicide. the victims include my fellow greeks, whose dramatic protests have been piling up for the last two or three years in my office and in the committee on petitions, of which i also have the honour of being a member. the committee on petitions' attempt to obtain full information from the commission on this tragic case, and also from the british government - we have held a meeting behind closed doors - is not working, at least as far as we are aware. the commission has been unable to provide satisfactory answers to the questions which we have repeatedly asked, and in this silence the british government, which refuses to communicate its answers to the committee on petitions, has the commission's support. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are not affected by the failure of the united kingdom government to comply with the community's obligations under the treaties. the above remarks, which may be unfair to the british government and the european commission, do not seem to have affected either to date. the european citizens, mr president, believe that their voices should be heard and that this is an opportunity to restore the credibility and the validity of the european union and our institution in the eyes of the citizens. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be able to accept it.
mr president, the report under discussion deals with a matter of enormous military, political and economic importance. the production and sale of arms is a source of enormous profits for multinational capital, which has taken control of these sectors through privatization. but beyond profits, the producing countries secure through the supply of arms and political control of the buyer countries, both through the fees paid by the war industries to the governments of these countries and through their arms control. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the situation in the middle east, and to take account of the views of the european parliament. the demand for and consumption of these products also affects the producing countries. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the middle east is not further aggravated by the threat of war. all this, expressed in the continuing militarization of the european union in ever closer cooperation with nato, requires enormous quantities of weapons. that's why mr. solana is proposing to increase military spending. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of nations, and it is a political union of nations, and it is a political union of nations. but they satisfy the speculative appetites of the politico-military-industrial complex which now controls, especially after 9/11, the politics of the united states, but is also increasing its influence in the countries of the european union. the report under discussion, however well-intentioned the rapporteur may be, does not address these issues, or rather conceals them. like all the previous ones, it makes wishes and suggestions that are not going to be implemented. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's arms industry is not left behind, and that the european union is not left behind. we need to convert war industries into peace industries. these are the demands of the peace movement. we support them, and that is why we will not vote for the report.
mr president, i too, as chairman of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities of the european parliament, would like to welcome the release today of amina lawal, the nigerian woman who was sentenced to death, to a horrible torturous death by stoning, on the charge of adultery, and i would like to congratulate the commission and my committee, who fought the battle and influenced very much the decision that came out today. we've applied the maximum pressure. however, this woman will not cease to symbolise the struggle of all women, across the length and breadth of the planet, who are fighting to protect their fundamental freedoms and human rights. as regards torture, i should like to congratulate you warmly, commissioner, on the initiatives you are taking, particularly in the prevention of torture, but also in the funding of rehabilitation centres for victims of torture. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a few more details on the situation in the community. 2,500 years ago, in athens, aristotle stressed that confessions under torture should not be accepted. another greek sage and orator, antiphon, also said that people under torture say only what pleases their tormentors. of course, modern experience has taught us that under the influence of torture any confession can be extinguished. victims say what the interrogator wants to hear and sign whatever document ends the pain and torture. it is a fact, however cliché it may sound now, that 9/11 marked a major turning point for human rights. acts of violence and terrorism, fear and insecurity that were once confined to some corners of the globe have become a daily reality in many other areas, including the western world. commissioner, a few years ago we were campaigning against torture used by totalitarian and dictatorial regimes. we were certain that in the western world, torture had no place. but very quickly, we realized our mistake. we saw this when we saw afghan prisoners with masks and blindfolds being piled up in the prisons at the us base at guantanamo bay, cuba, in conditions that amount to torture in the opinion of an expert, the president of the international council for the rehabilitation of torture victims that you mentioned, the greek mrs. maria kallis. at the same time, we have heard with horror arguments from supposed intellectuals who argue that the use of torture should be used in the fight against terrorism. so, what we've known to be true for 2,500 years, we're here to discuss again. however, no one doubts that the war on terrorism produces even greater terrorism. unfortunately, the war on terror has become a war on freedom, on the freedom to travel safely, to walk down the street, to meet people, to have a daily life free from fear and terror. the most vivid and recent example of how violence causes even more violence is the attack on the un offices in baghdad. today, human rights activists and humanitarian volunteers are being targeted as if they were terrorists themselves. however, our fight, commissioner, to combat violence and protect victims must not stop. i would like to congratulate you on the initiatives you are taking.
mr president, as i have already said in this chamber, the activities of the communist party, communist propaganda and the use of communist symbols are prohibited in latvia. the political life of the country is excluded from the 500 000 russian-speaking residents, or 40% of the population, who have no nationality. those who did not leave the communist party of latvia 8 months before the dissolution of the soviet union do not have the right to stand for election, to work in the public sector. for example, the communist leader alfreds rubiksx, who is currently president of the socialist party, is prohibited from taking part in elections despite the fact that his party has parliamentary representation. finally, monuments to the ss are being erected with public support and assistance, while veterans of the anti-fascist war are forbidden to wear the medals they won in that war and some of them are imprisoned precisely because they took part in the anti-fascist war. i would like to take note, mr president, of this unacceptable situation, which i have had the opportunity to observe personally, on the occasion of the presence of the president of the republic of latvia in our chamber tomorrow and her inaugural address, and i would ask you to refer to this situation in your discussions with her.
mr president, i ask for your intervention to stop the threats against the lives of journalists sener levent and ali osman of the turkish cypriot newspaper afrika by members of the extremist organisation grey wolves in northern cyprus. the threat of gagging of the newspaper afrika and its editor is a serious blow to the freedom of the press and expression in the turkish cypriot community. there are legitimate fears that, in the run-up to the elections in occupied cyprus next december, such attacks will intensify in order that terrorism and fear may prevent the pro-european democratic voices of the turkish cypriot community from being heard. i ask you to intervene, with the particular sensitivity that you have as a veteran journalist to press freedom issues and also to ask that parliament be systematically informed by the european commission and its representative in cyprus on similar issues. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
i suggest. mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to thank all the honourable members who have taken part in this debate and who have made an important contribution, sometimes critical but, for us, valuable in terms of suggestions and guidance with regard to the commitments we have to make, both as regards the issues which will see the european council next week looking for solutions to the problems we have discussed and as regards the intergovernmental conference. i would also like to stress with great satisfaction that there is a perfect harmony between the report by commission president prodi and the report we have drawn up as presidents of the council of the european union. let this be a guarantee of good work and, we hope, of good results. i would like to conclude this brief reply by confirming the commitment that the italian presidency has made to the european parliament to report on time on all developments in the intergovernmental conference and by reiterating the readiness for close cooperation between the council presidency and the parliamentary institution, which is also a guarantee of the best possible results. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. - (el) the support for economic recovery, which is induced by the propaganda for the brussels summit, is limited to means already used a thousand times in the past: neo-keynesian methods and mini-programmes of the new deal type which have been proven to be incapable of producing positive results for workers and which increase exploitation, unemployment and poverty. these measures only protect the contracts of large companies and support capitalist concentration, especially when they are accompanied by measures to reduce employment and workers' social rights. pension rights and pension funds are again in the line of fire. the generalization of 'flexibility' in employment and the freezing of wages are invoked in the name of competitiveness and reducing labour costs. immigration and respect for human rights are also in the firing line. we are seeing the emergence of coordinated measures to deport, extradite and 'move' immigrants, land and sea border guards and other measures that offend human dignity and ensure greater exploitation of immigrants. this is just a few days after the start of the intergovernmental conference convened to give a constitutional basis to capitalism, to redistribute power among the powerful and to cede even more national sovereignty to the euro-unifying centre. the peoples will certainly not stand idly by in the face of the renewed intensification of the attack, but will strengthen their resistance and launch a counterattack.
in writing. the aid for economic recovery, which is being promoted for the brussels summit, is limited to the usual means: neo-keynesian methods and mini-programmes of the new deal type, which have proved to be unable to produce positive results for workers, and which increase exploitation, unemployment and poverty. these measures only secure contracts for large companies and support the concentration of capital, especially when they are accompanied by measures restricting the labour and social rights of workers. the target is again the pension rights and pension funds, the promotion of the generalization of "flexibility" in work and the retention of wages, in the name of competitiveness and the reduction of labour costs. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. all this, just a few days after the start of the intergovernmental conference, which is called to constitutionally enshrine capitalism, redistribute power in favour of the powerful, and transfer further national sovereignty to the eu centre. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be the only party to the conflict, and it must not be allowed to continue to be the only party to the conflict.
the rapporteur. - (it) mr president, i have asked for my speech to be divided into two parts: the first now, which will be three minutes long, and the second, which will be two minutes long, at the end of the debate. i now want to talk about the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking. this agreement is the result of long and difficult negotiations during which we all asked ourselves - parliament, the commission and the council, but above all we ourselves, i must say - whether it would not be better to give up quietly, given the difficulty of finding real advantages in the current situation. first of all, i would like to thank mr gargani, mr swoboda and mr clegg, with whom we have had a good working relationship, and the technical group that negotiated with us, because in any case we have finally reached a positive result. so if we are here to encourage parliament to vote in favour of this agreement, it is because i think that progress - albeit minor and tentative - has been made. i would like to focus in particular on two issues which i believe are particularly important: co-regulation and self-regulation. not because the results we have achieved are revolutionary, but because i believe that if we use it properly - particularly in this house - this agreement will make it easier for us to combat a very worrying trend which the commission and the council, i am sorry to say, seem to be embracing. it is the tendency to move towards alternative methods of regulation to legislation and i am referring here specifically to what we call voluntary agreements. recent experience in the field of road safety and co2 emissions from cars has shown us that the risks of not achieving the objectives that can be achieved by normal legislation in terms of efficiency and systematic application are very real when these voluntary agreements are used. it is precisely to respond to this potential danger that we have been very much involved in this difficult debate, which also included many other elements - as members will see if they read the text, there is also a lot of filler - but at least some minor progress has been made on the issues of self-regulation and co-regulation. however, we must admit that we have failed in one area: we have not been able to obtain the right of call back from the commission - the right to suspend the use of a voluntary agreement if we do not approve it. we are extremely disappointed because it was the commission - and i must say this - that did not want to be disturbed. we have simply obtained a political will on the part of the commission to take account of the clear and unequivocal opposition of parliament. if it is deemed necessary, it will then be for parliament to organise its opposition to the voluntary agreement in order to force the commission to recall it itself. one last thing, mr president: the difficulty facing the commission and the council in making progress in this area is exactly the same as that which we faced in the negotiations on comitology. we hope that it has been overcome once and for all by the agreements reached by the convention.
mr president, as is well known, the commission has been concerned for years with the question of how best to govern this community model called the european union. part of this strategy is to simplify and improve the regulatory environment. the rapporteur, mr medina ortega, has been following these issues for a long time and that is why his report is a reflection of his rich experience of the commons, the dysfunctions and the weaknesses of the regulatory environment. its proposals cover all stages of the regulatory environment, from the preparatory work of legislation, the drafting procedures, the way in which its content is formulated, to the stage of implementation of legislation in the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the first is purely political and refers to the constant clash between the bureaucracy of each administrative mechanism and, consequently, the corresponding mechanism of the european commission, which considers efficiency to be a technical matter, thus undermining the principle of democratic legitimacy, which is the only one that can give credibility to any legislative text. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of subsidiarity to the legislative process is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take the necessary steps to ensure that the legislative process is properly implemented. secondly, since, and rightly so in my view, particular importance is attached to the quality and transparency of the numerous consultations in order to promote a legislative proposal, the proposed minimum standards for consultation should include the representativeness of the social actors involved, by setting out strict criteria for representativeness, and the procedure for periodically reviewing the list of representative organisations. representativeness is not acquired by any one body but must be gradually confirmed. the commission's communication rightly makes proposals to improve the way in which member states transpose legislation. however, although there are suggestions from the reports on the reporting and implementation of the law, the commission has not taken these suggestions into account. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one. despite initial declarations on the use of space for peaceful purposes in the direction of development, knowledge and applications, direct or indirect references to military use have recently become more frequent, to the extent that it is clear that this use is of primary interest to the european union. this is evident from the european commission's green paper and the star 21 report, as well as from the meeting organised by the greek presidency in athens on 8 and 9 may on 'space aspects of defence and security'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport sector is not subject to the same restrictions as the other sectors, and that the community's air transport sector is not subject to the same restrictions as the other sectors. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. but are its problems rooted in the emphasis on corporate profit as a driving force, in the liberalism, competitiveness and free markets that prohibit civilian public aid? the report by the committee on industry, which we are considering, although it contains a number of correct formulations and proposals, such as the recognition of the role of the european space agency, the reference to the need to promote research and international cooperation, nevertheless endorses the military use of space and is in favour of it. it therefore not only welcomes the proposal to set up a european armaments, research and military capabilities agency, but goes so far as to recall the 'opportunity of using satellite systems for military purposes in peacekeeping operations'. what peacekeeping is this? the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. the european union's involvement in the further militarization of space is a powerful blow to peace because it puts it on the same level of responsibility as the united states in the race for military competition. finally, ladies and gentlemen, it would be a very negative development for science and for the people if the european space agency, which as a transnational organisation at the level of the european continent has made a huge contribution to the development of space science and research, became an instrument of those who pursue military objectives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
mr president, i have some questions about mr solana who was also secretary general of nato when the intervention in the former yugoslavia took place. mr. high representative, why is there another milosevic and another sharon? - why is the authoritarian government that existed in the former yugoslavia different from the government in israel, whose members officially talk about the assassination of arafat? - why is kla one thing and jihad another ? - why are the kosovars different and have different rights and the palestinians different? - how far are you two feet and two ounces and such hypocrisy ? - why are we microscoping iran 's power plants and no one 's telling us what nuclear weapons israel has ? - why does it become an international alliance and desert storm when saddam hussein strikes kuwait and just a few bulletins when israel strikes syria? - why do we say "goodbye lenin" to the berlin wall and "good morning sharon" to the palestinian wall? - how far are we gonna go? - where is europe ? - why is europe paralyzed ? - why does europe have no voice when the united states does? - why europe is not taking a concrete initiative at the united nations to have international troops in the area of tension between israel and palestine.
mr president, whenever we discuss the middle east problem after being briefed by the high representative, mr solana, i have the feeling that he is moving between the martyrdom of tadalus and sisyphus, or even that his efforts are throwing water on the pit of the danaids on the one hand and on optimism on the other, optimism that moves either in the region of utopia or in the region of realism. what is certain is that to return the sun takes a lot of work. ladies and gentlemen, the crisis in the middle east is escalating. the european union must not forget that the european union is a political force, a political force, a political force, and that it is the only one that can guarantee the peace and stability of the region. in any case, terrorism in any form is unacceptable and condemnable. but it cannot be used as a pretext for further escalation. i should like to emphasize here the clear positions expressed by commissioner monti, but also the almost rare unanimity of the speakers. the picture's not good. the european union must take decisive initiatives to prevent any risk of enlargement, and propose concrete solutions and ways of implementing them. it must intervene decisively and forcefully as a third party. it is not enough to act as arbiter between israelis and palestinians. the role of referee leads to neutrality, and neutrality in judgments is not the best option. we're not historical reporters. we are politicians. now we have to decide! the road map, the rabin-arafat agreements must now have the means to be implemented, even with the presence of un forces. i must remind you again of the popular saying that if you don't break eggs, you can't make an omelet.
in writing. and today the hypocritical "defenders" of human rights and the oppressed have been silenced. apart from empty declarations, no words of solidarity with the palestinian people, who are fighting for human dignity for all humanity, against imperialist barbarity. they reject proposals to end funding and equipment for butcher sharon. they avoid any pressure on israel to end its occupation and aggression, the sole cause of the suffering of both peoples. solana, as the voice of his lord, denounced the palestinian resistance, while calling on israel to "show restraint and generosity". he also invoked the infamous 'jode map', signed by the palestinian authority with a pistol in its lap and trampled on by israel, to put new pressure and blackmail on the palestinians for new concessions, essentially to start an intra-palestinian civil war. no mention of the satanically inspired wall aimed at the suffocation of palestine, nor of criminal colonialism and cynical threats against president-elect arafat. we condemn this policy and express our full support for the palestinian resistance and president arafat. we stand with the communists in israel and all those in that country who, like the 27 pilots and hundreds of israeli soldiers and officers, are fighting to stop sharon's man-eating machine. we call for the formation of a solidarity front for peace in south africa and for the two peoples to live together in two independent and sovereign states.
in writing. - (el) the resolution is critical of the situation regarding the transfer of data to the united states, but it nevertheless accepts its legalization. we are adding a new feature to the series we already have on the international police state. the council of justice ministers decided to allow the police conducting the investigation to continue to monitor suspects from the same territory in other member states. this authorisation is granted for a wide range of offences, whereas previously it was only possible for offences involving the extradition of the suspect. these crimes, apart from terrorism, murder, kidnapping, hostage taking, trafficking in human beings, transport of explosives and toxic waste, also include theft, serious sexual crimes, and trafficking in drugs and psychotropic substances. the french and german police will simply have to ask the greek authorities for permission or notify them of the surveillance. as a result, the cafes in omonia and syntagma squares, especially during the preparations for the olympic games, will soon resemble a scene from a novel by ian fleming or john le carré. the french police officer will be watching a pickpocket, the german police officer will be watching a drug addict and the greek police will be just watching. we have seen this in the case of the van case, in which foreigners were involved in surveillance and which was linked to the case of 17 november. now we shall see them "legally" imposing total chaos, a european police state and a violation of national sovereignty.
in writing. - (el) the meps of the greek communist party voted against the resolution because it does not take up the amendment we had proposed, calling for a ban on the collection and transmission of passengers' personal data to third parties, as citizens had demanded and, in part, article 6 (2) of council regulation no 2299/98. the resolution, of course, questions the appropriateness of this measure, the introduction of biometric elements in the new passports of eu citizens and the agreement on terrorism concluded with the united states by the greek eu presidency, but it only proposes minor and secondary corrections as regards the data retention period of 3 or 6 years, the reduction of the 39 elements requested and the prior knowledge and consent of passengers to record their personal data. it almost seems that privacy is a personal issue rather than a social and political one. this is yet another attempt to give a pseudo-democratic cover and to cultivate blindness to the role of the eu and the european parliament in the world imperialist system. what is important to the popular movements is not whether the eu plays a leading or a secondary role, but whether it is, together with the united states, dealing a well-orchestrated blow to human rights and fundamental democratic freedoms.
in writing. - (el) we agree with the motion for a resolution because it makes an effort to solve the serious problems of beekeeping. we cannot exclude the possibility that new generations of insecticides applied mainly by the seed immersion method may be harmful to the environment and public health, especially when these preparations are used in different countries and after germination to control certain pests. this results in higher residues during flowering and in the finished product. therefore, controls of post-germination spraying should also be carried out in order to improve our knowledge of the effects of these preparations and to take appropriate measures to protect the environment and public health.
i would like to point out, mr president, that the change in the financing of the european documentation networks and the closure of the documentation departments in the delegations of the member states, which are merged with those of parliament, have created a problem of information and information for european citizens. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i would therefore ask you to ensure that they are properly operated for the time being.
mr president, the process of criminalising peaceful activity in greece is continuing with the trial of five peace activists who, along with thousands of others, expressed the greek people's opposition to the dirty imperialist war against the yugoslav people. one of the forms of struggle was the blockades in the nato convoys, in which these five peace activists participated. while they were tried and acquitted, they are being brought to a new trial on october 29. recently, members of the pame trade union organisation who opposed the circumvention of workers' and labour rights, the imposition of sentences on strikers, the declaration of almost all strike mobilizations as illegal and abusive, were also sentenced. similar lawsuits have been and are being brought against farmers' unions. it is an attempt to terrorize the popular movement and to stop its development. it is part of the removal of labour and democratic rights and freedoms and the imposition of the new capitalist order in all areas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament. in any case, they will meet with the growing reaction of the workers and, more generally, of our peoples.
mr president, the change of definition from 'forest ecosystems' to 'forest' is a scientific step backwards, since the term 'forest ecosystem' is more complete scientifically. moreover, a forest ecosystem cannot be characterised as such by its area of only half a hectare, since a set of criteria and conditions is necessary for the characterisation of an area as a forest ecosystem. the report also makes no mention of the forested areas with shrubs and trees, which are less than 10%. tens of millions of hectares of forest ecosystem in my country, which are currently protected by greek legislation and are a key protective factor, according to recent government announcements of a draft law that substantially adapts greek legislation to the proposed directive, are at risk of being exploited, with incalculable consequences for the forest ecosystem, soil support, water retention, flood prevention and the enrichment of the groundwater horizon. the so-called forestry policy which has been in place up to now, and i am referring to my country as a negative example, has not addressed the basic problems of forest ecosystems, but has instead contributed to the privatisation of forests, hence the high rate of burning, since we are talking about fires, the rapid entry and speculation of capital in ecosystems of enormous size and importance, such as national forests, etc., in encroachments and changes of use, with the aim of intensifying speculation through their tourist or residential exploitation. finally, there is only a pretense of greater interest in forest ecosystems, whereas in reality the application of more general political and economic options is becoming more rigid, with more strangleholding control and with complete disregard for the specificities and real needs of the forest ecosystems of the member states, once again serving the speculation of capital.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs redondo on her work and effort and on her passion for the obvious. there is no expert who will deny that the value of forests is inestimable. it is a value that is environmental, and climate, and sanitary, and economic, and social, and cultural, but also - even historical. so when you have something invaluable to safeguard, it is unacceptable to compromise on the financial aspect of the safeguard and the measures you will take. let me remind you that 5,000 years ago and more, the ancient greeks entrusted the care of the forests to the gods, while we compromise on how much money we will spend more or less to save and preserve this priceless treasure that we have from god. in any case, we must nevertheless be efficient in recording both the state of the forests and the information needed to be able to identify the causes of fires. we must fight the root causes if we are to save the forests. we must make efforts to raise the awareness of citizens about the management and use of forests. we must take measures to prevent fires from starting, but also to prevent them from spreading when they do. we must monitor the forests and finally we must realise that forest fires are not subject to the schengen regulation. they cross borders without any controls and without borders the fires themselves. that is why cooperation between countries belonging to the european union and others not belonging to it should be very close, very effective, and help each other to achieve the best possible result.
commission. – mr president, i should like to thank the honourable members for all their interesting and important comments. mr folias, you are absolutely right that we cannot trust the gods to take responsibility for the forests. this summer's events – with such huge forest fires in portugal and other countries – demonstrate that. i can, of course, see the link to climate change, where i guess the gods are crying over what we are doing to this planet and to our climate. a second reading agreement is needed to ensure the continuity of the measures which have been carried out over a period of more than 15 years. a loss of one year over the monitoring of forest fires and the air pollution effects on forests would of course mean an information gap which can only be filled after several years of additional efforts. this must be avoided. the compromise approach would give the european commission the time to reflect – together with member states and stakeholders – on ways in which forest fire risks might be minimised, and on the possibilities of improving prevention measures in the most appropriate way after 2006. in this sense, i would encourage members of the european parliament to support the compromise proposal which aims to reach broad consensus. i should like to thank both the rapporteur and all members once again.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0335/2003) by mr maaten, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the quality of bathing water.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the commissioner and mrs de sarnez on this ambitious programme, on this great and substantial step. the opening up of europe to the world of education, which is a bold step, is promoting the european education area and we are beginning to see it no longer as a fragmented area, but as a real area with its bridges and partnerships. i think that erasmus mundus masters is a qualitative difference compared to all the previous programmes precisely because it is not based on an exchange, on a mobility, but it gives us a new stamp, a new benchmark, to which the thousands of students and the hundreds of educational institutions that will take advantage of it will be able to give a real meaning. it is very important that europe today has the courage to open up to competition, to languages and to intercultural understanding. we reward both the institutions and their partnerships through this program, but we also promote the excellence of students from any country, continent or cultural background and wherever they come from. and that means promoting european values. i think we owe them. in particular, in the countries from which millions of economic migrants come, we have to give something back, and i think what we give, these scholarships that we give, is a reward, and i hope that from these developing countries the majority of students will come to us. the european students, tired of working with foreigners, have much to gain and much to understand from the culture they will bring to us.
mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, i would like to congratulate the four rapporteurs on their work and wish them well, because it is clear that the conciliation procedure with the council will follow. i would like to concentrate first and foremost on the question of railway liberalization and make a few political remarks, believing that behind the discussions on individual amendments and technical regulations we are missing the point. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's maritime transport system is not affected by the crisis. for several years now, road transport in europe has been liberalized. the same applies to air transport. i think that's the paradox. it cannot be justified why the railway in particular should be closed and why there should not be a single network and free competition at european level. i would like to see this explained to me in good faith, not by hiding behind the interests of particular classes or companies, but by explaining it in terms of the rules of common sense. we must always bear in mind that we cannot talk about a single european market without a single transport network. and without liberalisation on the railway network, that cannot be achieved. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not used for the purpose of transporting dangerous goods. it is therefore absolutely necessary to take bold steps in the area of liberalization, and i have been frank with you that if i were to decide personally what should be done with the railway market, i would liberalize it tomorrow morning. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the safety standards are respected, and that the safety standards are maintained, and that the safety standards are maintained, and that the safety standards are maintained. but, in any case, because here we must operate not on the basis of my personal wishes but on the basis of a political consensus. parliament, which has been at the forefront of the liberalisation of the railways for many years, is doing well in insisting on the amendments at first reading and i hope that, in the context of the conciliation which will follow, we will be able, with the italian presidency, to achieve the best possible result by december. i hope that the commissioner will help us with her statement, which can be used as a last resort so that we can proceed immediately to liberalization of the railway market for passengers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why in the sterckx report we are talking about black boxes, as they are in ships and planes. that is why we are talking about a european driving licence for train drivers, that is why in mrs ainardi's report we are raising the question of financing interoperability, because we want interoperability at a high level and not at a minimum level, as the council wants. in this spirit we shall go forward, hoping that by the end of the italian presidency at the end of december we shall have the best possible result in terms of liberalising the railway market, not because we consider it an end in itself, but because we believe it is the best means of serving the european economy, the european consumer, and the workers themselves, as more jobs will be created.
madam president, the 2004 budget is an expression of the european union's anti-people authoritarian policy. for another year, a budget is being presented which is supporting big capital and the expansionist imperialist policy of the european union. the limitation of budgetary appropriations to less than 1% of community gdp, for a year in which it is called upon to finance not 15 but 25 countries with increased convergence needs, gives a clear picture of the promotion of plans for restructuring, privatisation and market liberalisation and of the indifference to the needs of workers, the poor and the small and mediumsized urban and rural sectors, who are called upon to pay the price of the crisis. the general guidelines of the european union budget for 2004 consist in cutting expenditure on the structural funds and limiting the financing of the cap to finance the repressive and aggressive common european defence and security policy, under the pretext of combating terrorism and tackling migration, the creation and financing of repressive mechanisms, a european army, police, border guards, a central filing system, etc. the agreements finance the murder of palestinians by israel, finance and legitimize the us invasion of iraq. the austerity imposed on the workers and the popular strata to serve the interests of the monopolies continues in the lisbon logic, with an intensification of exploitation, circumvention of the workers' labour and insurance rights, an increase in unemployment, destruction of the environment and further commercialization of health, education and social welfare. the budget, which is a budget for the european union, is a budget for the european union, and it is a budget for the european union, and it is a budget for the european union, and it is a budget for the european union, and it is a budget for the european union. on the contrary! the convergence that is taking place is downward, dragging even wider social strata into poverty and destitution. the reduction of the social funds for agriculture, in line with the logic of the wto and in agreement with the usa, is being carried out in the anti-agricultural context of the partial revision of the cap. at the same time, restructuring is being imposed and pressure is being exerted on alternative crops, such as tobacco and other mediterranean products, in which the european union is in short supply, while under pressure from the americans and their multinationals it is promoting genetically modified organisms. the budget funds the clearing of small and mediumsized farms. the kke meps will vote against this budget because instead of solving it, it will create new problems for the workers, farmers and small businesses of the region and instead of contributing to peace in the world, it promotes war and imperialist hegemony.
madam president, i am afraid that i could not solve the problem of the structural funds with 10 euros. but in any case, commissioner, speaking first of all on this subject, we in the committee on regional policy and transport believe that the committee on budgets has moved in the right direction with regard to category ii, the budget for the structural funds, essentially restoring the amounts that were set in the preliminary draft budget, and sometimes going even higher. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as regards transport, while i welcome the fact that the amounts in the preliminary draft are being re-allocated to transport safety - and for us the issue of transport safety is a matter of absolute priority - i would like to say that we disagree with the committee on budgets' amendment no 553 which refers to the european aviation safety agency (easa). the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. i think the committee on budgets has gone too far on this point. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we welcome the fact that there has been an increase over the pre-project levels of 5 million for withdrawals and 52 million for payments. we hope that these funds will be absorbed. we also want to believe that the member states will honour the commitments they made, even recently, at the last european council in brussels, to make the issue of european networks a top priority.
- (el) mr commissioner, i am of course sorry that we did not have more specific details to demonstrate the seriousness and extent of the problem. let me tell you that the turnover from e-commerce of pharmaceutical products is over 5 billion euros, even though we do not know who is selling these pharmaceutical products. investigations in this area have shown that these are people involved in criminal activities. we also do not know the origin of these pharmaceutical products because they often do not come from countries such as the united states or canada, but from india or brazil, with the result that their composition and content are very dangerous and have nothing to do with the indications. there is also a cycle of fake and fictitious medical advice which poses a threat to the person who accepts the product. this was also the case in britain. unfortunately, in 2003 alone, more than 600 british subjects purchased pharmaceutical products via the internet. should we really allow this kind of advertising, especially when it is directed at young people? the pharmaceutical products with the highest market penetration rate via the internet are anti-obesity products. they are therefore very young. i believe that measures are also needed at community level, regardless of national legislation.
the commission is aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the new agreement with the united states, and that the united states has been involved in the negotiations with the united kingdom. so let me tell you that the turnover from the electronic trade in medicines is over 5 billion euros, and we do not know who is selling the medicines. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter. we also don't know where the drugs come from, because they often don't come from places like america or canada, but from india or brazil, so the formulation and the contents of the drug are very harmful and have nothing to do with the indications, and there's also a cycle of false, fake medical reports, which has the consequence of threatening the life of the recipient of the drug. and this was observed in great britain. unfortunately, in 2003 alone, over 600 british people bought drugs over the internet. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the drugs that are most widely distributed and sold on the internet are those for obesity. so they're very young ages. i think that, irrespective of national legislation, we must certainly take action at community level.
commission. the commission would like to start by clearing up a misunderstanding that seems to underlie this question. at present there is no decision and no agreement. there is therefore nothing to abrogate. there is an american law which requires airlines flying to or from the united states to provide access to their passenger name records. most airlines are complying with this. that is understandable in view of the fact that there may be negative consequences for these airlines and for their passengers if they do not supply the data to the united states. february's joint statement brought with it a us commitment to work with the commission towards achieving a so-called adequacy finding regarding the level of data protection provided by the united states. the honourable member is right, the commission does not consider that the american arrangements amount to adequate protection. that in itself is not yet a reason to stop the process. instead, the commission is energetically pursuing the process with the aim of persuading the united states to improve its arrangements so that an adequacy finding can be made and a proper legal framework for passenger name record transfers can be provided. the commission, as i told parliament's relevant committee on 9 september 2003, is working to a deadline of christmas 2003.
i am afraid that this 'understandable' that the commissioner has said is worse than a deal. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i am saying that it should be a matter of the european parliament and the council, and that the commission should be involved in this matter. my question, therefore, commissioner, is whether you have taken note of the resolution adopted by the european parliament's plenary a few weeks ago on dealing with this situation, which includes the european parliament's concern that it could take legal action against the commission's position on this matter, which is terribly sensitive and where the commission is acting illegally when the institutions of the european union are trying to teach its citizens to be lawful.
commission. the commission would like to recall that the public procurement directive applicable to public works was transposed into greek law in the mid-nineties and constitutes the appropriate framework for the award of public works contracts in greece. notwithstanding the fact that the relevant eu rules seem to have been correctly transposed, the commission examines specific cases of potential irregularities in the award of public works and work concessions, which are brought to its attention and evaluates on a case-by-case basis whether or not community law has been breached. concerning the specific question of certain public works studies, the commission can confirm that, in the course of a regularly scheduled on-the-spot control mission concerning the egnatia project, which is co-financed by the eu, in particular through the trans-european network – ten-t – and the structural funds, some issues have been identified which show that the practices in greece for the award of study contracts may not be compatible with public procurement rules and thus require further clarification. the commission is in close contact with the greek authorities in order to assess these issues. whilst awaiting the outcome of the compatibility assessment under the public procurement rules, and in application of the 'precautionary principle', some of the payments, namely those linked to the ten-t budget line, have been suspended. should the competent greek authorities not provide sufficient evidence of the compatibility of national rules or practices with the community legislation on public procurement, the commission will have to open an infringement procedure and thus all the eu funds concerned will have to be suspended. as for the last question, the commission is not currently examining any case related to the concession of public works, nor have there been any complaints on this specific issue to date.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his detailed answer to my question. i would like to ask him if there are any other projects under review at the moment besides the ignatia road.
in writing. - (el) i would like to take this opportunity to emphasize the following points: firstly, i agree with the european parliament's proposals for higher compensation amounts. secondly, this requirement should not lead to an increase in premiums for citizens, as insurance companies have a considerable margin of manoeuvre, together with the measures proposed by the italian presidency to improve road safety and reduce road accidents. thirdly, it is important that the insured person has a right of priority over the creditors in the event of the bankruptcy of an insurance company.
in writing. - (el) i would like to take this opportunity to emphasize the following points: firstly, i am concerned about the positions adopted at the council meeting in rome on 21 october by the united kingdom, the netherlands, sweden, denmark and germany, which are in favour of reducing regional subsidies. secondly, enlargement must not be detrimental to the potential development of the regions of the 15 current member states of the union. thirdly, it is important that the aegean islands should be granted the same privileges as the outermost regions of the union.
i suggest. the european union expressed to turkey its concern about the framework agreement on customs union with the republic of northern cyprus and in particular stated that, apart from the legal and commercial implications, the signing of the agreement undermines efforts to resolve the cyprus problem and is contrary to the spirit of the plan planned by un secretary-general kofi annan. the european union has taken note of the indications of the turkish government, which it welcomes, that it has decided not to ratify and apply the agreement, which it considers incompatible with the customs union with turkey. the european union expects turkey to maintain this decision and to lift the current trade measures on northern cyprus which violate the eu-turkey customs union.
i thank the president for his reply. it's a step, but it's not enough. the agreement has the signatures of the turkish prime minister, the turkish government, and is in parliament, it just does not come up for a vote. i would like to ask the president whether the european union will call for the complete annulment of this agreement, which is a challenge to turkey's status as a candidate country and to turkey's customs union with the european union.
i suggest. i can only say that i am not expressing here, and do not intend to express, my own personal assessment. i can confirm that the council, although aware of a situation, did not consider that it had examined and dealt with the condition and situation relating to this process. here's the situation. on the other hand, as you know, the european union has unanimously expressed a certain attitude, with the support of this parliament, with regard to the human rights violations and the condemnations that have been committed by the cuban government. that's the state of affairs. i am of course taking note of your concerns and your requests for intervention, which i will of course convey as you have stated them.
we're told the council is aware but has not considered the terms of the trial. we also know that the council has been particularly concerned about the fact that the cuban courts have convicted some 70 agents of the united states. what will the president say if he is accused, not of being himself but of being the council, of responding on behalf of the council to extreme hypocrisy, double standards and the fact that the european union is outpacing the united states in its attack on socialist cuba? what will he say if someone accuses the council of doing what we openly accuse the european union of doing?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i have no further question to ask and i shall settle for this one.
- the next item is the report (a5-0351/2003) by mr menéndez del valle, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on 'peace and dignity' in the middle east.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the agenda calls for the following reports to be discussed jointly:- a5-0347/2003, by mr langen, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on entrepreneurship in europe - green paper; - a5-0328/2003 by mrs zrihen, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on industrial policy in an enlarged europe.
commission. mr president, it is late, and there are other items still to come, so i just want to thank once more the rapporteurs, mrs zrihen and mr langen, for their excellent work and also all honourable members for their contributions. we will carefully study all of this in the follow-up both to the industrial policy communication and the action plan for entrepreneurship. so i look forward to seeing you back in this house in early winter next year.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. the following shall be considered as written declarations:
in writing. i welcome the commission's initiative on the green paper on entrepreneurship and congratulate the rapporteur, mr langen, on the detailed and coherent work he has put to us for a vote. we must make it clear that if entrepreneurship is not developed rapidly in the eu, then we must forget about the lisbon objectives once and for all. only by developing entrepreneurship can the scourge of unemployment be tackled and the wealth of the eu be increased, to the benefit, above all, of the economically weakest. to achieve this, governments need to simplify bureaucratic procedures now, create business-friendly tax systems, and ensure that a supportive business climate is created in which new entrepreneurs can thrive and grow. the banks should stop being the oppressors of smes and take on the useful role of advisers and supporters. finally, we must immediately and definitively overturn the social perception that leftist ideology has cultivated for years, that profit is the devil and the enemy of society. it must be a shared belief that profit means reward for the man who tries, who takes risks, who works day and night, who is ambitious and capable of something better. profit is the driving force that creates entrepreneurship and leads to the progress of individuals, peoples and states.
- the next item is the report (a5-0330/2003) by mrs angelilli, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs, on compensation for victims of crime.
the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again on the quality of her report and to congratulate the house on its express support for this initiative which is based, as you know, on article 308 of the treaty and which enjoys such broad support in parliament. i welcome the rapporteur's amendments, i share her reasoning, i would just like to point out, in relation to the amendments, that it seems to me that parliament should retain the nature of an initiative on common minimum standards. i would like to be more ambitious myself, but i would draw the house's attention to the fact that excessive ambition can make it difficult to pass this initiative, which i would like to see done in the shortest possible time. in this sense, the commission, in order not to create further delays, will not submit an amended proposal, but in relation to the overwhelming majority of the amendments tabled by mrs roberta angelilli, 53 of the total of 77 amendments, the commission undertakes to fight so that the intention underlying these amendments is present in the negotiations it will conduct with the council for the adoption of this proposal.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0326/2003) by mr evans, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the initiative of the hellenic republic concerning the adoption of a framework decision on the prevention and combating of trafficking in organs and tissues of human origin.
mr president, i consider it very important that the greek government should put forward a proposal on the prevention and suppression of trafficking in human organs in order to deal with the disgrace of organ sales in human organs markets, but above all to combat the activities of international organized criminal networks that kidnap and murder, especially children, in order to sell their organs. i believe that the report drawn up by mr evans, while supporting the basic objectives of the greek proposal, at the same time complements them and provides safeguards so that donors are not discouraged. it is well known that the number of transplants in the european union has been declining in recent years. in greece, the average wait for a kidney transplant is over 8 years. the biggest problem is mainly liver and heart transplants. in this case, we know that several patients die waiting for the transplant. organized crime is certainly taking advantage of this situation, offering its way through transplant tourism and trading in complex trade networks. it is an open secret that in india, brazil, south africa, as well as china and pakistan, the largest organ markets operate. however, there are also strong speculative phenomena and violations of human dignity in the european union and in the candidate countries, where economic pressure on economically deprived groups contributes to the flourishing of the illegal and abhorrent activities of dark networks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected. i also agree with the european parliament's amendment that trade also undermines the right of citizens to equal access to health services and undermines confidence in the legal transplant system. the european union must take a common position on the approximation of criminal laws, which vary from one country to another, on strict sanctions and on international cooperation to combat the abhorrent phenomenon of trafficking in human organs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. illegal trafficking in human organs would certainly not exist if more citizens were willing to donate organs and tissues after their death. this is why information campaigns are needed at national and european level to persuade people to become donors and to inform their families and loved ones in good time. the adoption of a community directive will create the appropriate legal framework to put a new basis on the problem of thousands of people who are crammed onto waiting lists for organs.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the statement by the commission on the situation in bolivia.
- i have received five motions for resolutions on this subject, pursuant to rule 37 of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. (the sitting was closed at 12.05 p.m.) the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97).
in writing. - (el) the members of the greek communist party voted in favour of the evans report because it confirms the tragic situation that exists today with regard to organ trafficking and promotes measures to strengthen organ donation, which is the only hope of salvation for thousands of patients who are losing the fight waiting for a transplant to be found. however, we would like to point out that the lack of funding for information campaigns to overcome reluctance, aversion and prejudice limits the number of donors and reinforces the existence of this shameful but highly lucrative phenomenon of the trade in human organs. we are facing the worst form of exploitation and crime: the abduction and even murder of human beings, especially young people and children, to harvest and sell their organs. the absolute poverty of some people forces them to sell their organs to skilled intermediaries. this infamous but highly lucrative growing 'transplant tourism' shows the full intensity and extent of the problem and is clear evidence of the link between large-scale crime and the legal activities of big business and the exploitation of the less developed countries and their citizens in particular. however, when health becomes a commodity and an object of exploitation, when large private clinics make considerable profits from categories of patients who need a transplant, there can be no conditions for safeguarding transparency in organ donation. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - (el) once again, the summit has made the peoples shoulder the burden of an increasingly acute anti-people policy. after trying to overcome their minor differences on the "euroconstitution", they dealt with the economy, the further development of repression, external relations, and congratulated the pope on his 25 years in office. as eu leaders have said, economic recovery requires an acceleration of structural reforms and greater labour market flexibility, i.e. even more onerous working conditions for workers. they also talk about the 'modernization' of social protection systems and repeat that pension systems are threatened by demographic change, i.e. the increase in average life expectancy. in order to further stimulate monopolies, they announced new major projects in the field of transport and telecommunications networks. democratic rights are once again in the line of fire. under the guise of border and immigration control, they are introducing 'biometric' elements in visas and passports. they are calling for closer police and judicial cooperation, using terrorism as a pretext. they welcomed the us-inspired decision taken by the un security council on iraq and declared their readiness to contribute to 'stability' in that country. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. - (el) the members of the greek communist party vote against the brok report on the main aspects and fundamental choices of the cfsp, because it supports, on behalf of the european parliament, all the imperialist interventionist and offensive choices of the european union for independent or complementary action in close cooperation with nato and the united states. the report welcomes the convention's proposal to include these choices in the european constitution. it supports the famous, dangerous and militaristic memorandum of mr solana, presented at the chalkidiki summit last june, by adopting the three strategic objectives proposed, such as preventive attacks ("implement conflict prevention to react before a crisis erupts"). it sets as a priority the ambition to share responsibility with the united states for 'peace, stability, democracy, tolerance and sustainable development in the world'. however, knowing the theories of us world domination, it becomes clear that the goal of the eu is not the achievement of all these objectives, but the sharing of the spoils and the subjugation of the peoples. the complaints made by the european parliament about its being sidelined are simply a fig leaf to camouflage the militarist orientation of the report. the people must therefore react by mobilizing immediately and dynamically against these choices to block the way for the invaders.
in writing. - (el) the members of the greek communist party will not vote for the report because it argues that the 'road map' is the last and only solution to de-escalation in the middle east. however, israel, emboldened by the unfailing support of the united states and the complicity of the eu, is violating every agreement reached, is reinforcing the criminal policy of genocide against the palestinian people, is continuing to establish settlements in the palestinian territories and is erecting a wall, inspired by fascist practices, with a view to the dismemberment of palestine and to turning it into a ghetto. if the wall were to be completed, it would annex 58% of the west bank, trapping 600,000 palestinians and most of the fertile land. it would thus objectively destroy any possibility of the creation of an independent palestinian state. this aspiration of israel is in perfect harmony with the us imperialist plans in the middle east, of which israel is the extension of the arm. under the guise of the anti-terrorist campaign, the eu also takes a stand for israel, despite some opposition within the imperialist camp. the report under discussion, despite some good proposals by the rapporteur, which try to appear "objective", in fact keeps its distance from both sides. in its effort to calm the invader, the eu only encourages it. we unreservedly join the palestinian people in their struggle for an independent state and, at the same time, the israeli forces who oppose mr sharon's criminal policy, while recognizing that there can be no israeli state without a palestinian state.
in writing. - (el) entrepreneurship is presented as the new ideal of the eu which will solve the problems of economic stagnation, unemployment, etc. one of the attempts is to shift responsibility for growth from the social level to the individual. for example, unemployment is interpreted as a lack of entrepreneurship on the part of the unemployed and not as a component of capitalism. both the commission's text and the report of the european parliament's committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy are anthems to this new ideal. the commission proposes three lines of action: removing barriers to the development of enterprises, balancing risk and reward and promoting a society that values entrepreneurship. in other words, it offers total immunity for companies, cheap money and guarantees that investments will bring very large profits, not to mention the propaganda campaign at all levels (education, media, etc.) so that inexperienced people are also persuaded to adopt the entrepreneurial spirit or, at least, the heads of companies. the report goes in the same direction. we are not surprised, of course, to see the capitalist eu deifying the spirit of enterprise. but our ideals and principles forbid us to accept such an approach. we distinguish between individualism and collective action and between the profit-making capitalist enterprise and the one that works for the benefit of society as a whole. that is why the meps from the communist party of greece voted against these reports.
in writing. - (el) at the time when eu leaders at the recent brussels summit expressed their support for the "democratically elected government of bolivia" and called on the people to "renounce violence", sanchez de lozada was resigning as president of the country and going to miami to seek refuge with his friends. the popular uprising in bolivia and its dozens of victims, the result of violent and bloody repression, represents an outburst of anger on the part of the oppressed: workers, farmers and indigenous people. they were demanding a place in the sun and defending their country's natural wealth against the plundering of foreign monopolies and neo-colonization by the united states. once again, the people are the protagonists of history. once again, we see that the enemy, however powerful he may seem, is not invincible. the european parliament's resolution, although it contains many correct opinions, nevertheless adopts a neutral position with regard to the popular uprising. that is why the deputies of the greek communist party abstained from voting. at the same time, we express our solidarity with the people of bolivia and the whole of latin america, and our firm conviction that this recent victory will not be the last.
the commission's proposals are not only a means of improving the situation in the mediterranean, but also a means of ensuring that the mediterranean is not left to the detriment of the community's own resources. the greek countryside and three basic products of the country, which employ 75% of the farmers, will be hit hard in order to meet the new plans and commitments of the cap, the wto and the enlargement of the european union, that is, the mandates of big capital and multinationals that order the disappearance of tobacco cultivation, the reduction of cotton cultivation and the abandonment of olive cultivation, products in which the european union is in serious deficit. they are indifferent to the consequences, which will be painful not only for farmers but also for workers in processing, warehouses, etc., who are also professionally associated with these products, as well as many small and medium-sized enterprises active in these areas. the commission is proposing, in no uncertain terms, that tobacco farming and subsidies be abolished by 2013. the chronicle of a foretold gothenburg death. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat tobacco production in the community, and it is also proposing to extend the measures to include tobacco products from third countries, such as the united states, japan, japan, japan, japan, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united states, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the netherlands, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united states, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the netherlands, the netherlands, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united states, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united states, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united states, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, ireland, the united kingdom, the united kingdom, the united states, and canada. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tobacco industry in the community is not discouraged from using tobacco products in the community. the european union of 370 million people is being asked to stop financing 347 000 tonnes of tobacco, while the united states of 263 million people is still increasing its production of 586 000 tonnes, much of which is imported into the european union. what is apparent is that tobacco producers will get less money, which will be called decoupled aid, but in practice will be poor unemployment benefits and false compensation for the abolition of tobacco farming by the european union. as regards cotton, and in order to avoid any misunderstanding on the part of cotton producers, the commission clearly states in its introductory report that the new revision of the met is due to the fact that the objective of price reduction and reduction of cultivated area and production, as envisaged in the 2001 revision, has not been achieved so far. in two years, the cotton crop in greece has been reduced by 70 000 hectares, with a significant drop in the price of cotton and in the income of producers, due to the increase in the fines for co-responsibility and all the outrageous restrictive and prohibitive measures in the number of cultivated hectares and yield per hectare. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the same prices are enjoyed by the developing countries, for which the european union is supposedly cut. the commission is, however, demanding even greater reductions through a new and disastrous review. the commission is therefore setting a low ceiling of 34 000 hectares for greece and similar cuts for spain and portugal, with the aim of bringing this ceiling down even further by the measures it is taking. the commission's proposals for cotton also overturn protocol iv, as jové peres said, of greece's accession to the eec in 1981, which establishes a guarantee of a minimum price to the producer. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council will be consulted on the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the olive oil sector is not left behind. the commission's proposals for the oil report are characterized by a spirit of hypocrisy and mockery of the oil producers. after mentioning that there is a serious risk of widespread disruption to olive tree care, and while the authors and promoters are obviously aware of what will happen with their new proposals, measures are proposed that will achieve what they are theoretically aiming for, namely disconnection by 60%. these three mediterranean products are victims of the agricultural stranglehold of the mid-term review of the cap. the disastrous cap is becoming an even more effective mechanism for the destruction of farmers, especially small and mediumsized farmers. the appeal to protect the environment, which is repeated like candy, is used as an alibi to reduce agricultural production. the hypocrisy is made evident by the anti-smoking campaign instead of the anti-smoking campaign, at the same time as the promotion of the cultivation of genetically modified products. these proposals shall not be subject to amendment or alteration. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new forms of production, and that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new forms of production. and, mr lamy, when you took office, you said you had consulted with the producers. the only thing you haven't done is to get in touch with the producers, the real producers. you get along with those who have nothing to do with production, nothing to do with products and, mainly, you get along with multinationals.
in writing. - (el) we do not agree with the report for the following reasons. firstly, because the proposed measures are designed to protect and strengthen the eu's common fisheries policy, which we disapprove of because of the restrictions it imposes on production and which are mainly aimed at small and medium-sized fisheries undertakings, particularly in countries such as greece. furthermore, we are asked to support an absurd system of control in which the controlled is also the controller. secondly, because the short-term action plan and especially the creation of a common inspection and control structure are additional measures of eu integration in the fisheries sector, which implies a greater restriction on the capacity to define national fisheries policies and take national measures taking into account national particularities and needs. the proposed common inspection structure raises a number of questions, since questions of national sovereignty in the territorial waters of the member states also arise.
in writing. - (el) even if we admit that the objectives of a reduction in the fishing fleet have not been achieved - which is not the case in greece, for example, where we have even recorded a reduction in the fleet and fisheries to the benefit of imports and aquaculture - we have no reason to deplore the failure of the multiannual guidance programmes. the reason is that these programmes mark the beginning of restrictions on the production of small and medium-sized fisheries undertakings, as is the case in greece, leading to a decline in fishing, a deterioration in the sector's trade balance and adverse consequences for the populations of coastal regions. we agree with the control of the fishing capacity of the fleet, but we do not agree with the control of the fishing capacity by the common fisheries policy, as stipulated in the multiannual guidance programmes. on the contrary, we believe that the responsibility for regulation should lie with the member states, which should take compliance measures based on real scientific data provided by other bodies, such as fao, on the state of fish stocks, etc. in no case can we accept the attribution of this responsibility to supranational bodies such as the eu, because its policy contributes to the strengthening of large enterprises, also in the fisheries sector, while at the same time attacking small and medium-sized fisheries by withdrawing and tearing up boats, by measures to support aquaculture, etc.
mr president, yesterday i read with surprise and horror a complaint by amnesty international against sudan, whose special court sentenced a 16-year-old accused of armed robbery to a so-called "cross amputation", that is to say to have his right hand and left foot cut off. amnesty international condemns sudan's judicial system and criminal law, which includes punishments such as amputations, but also executions by stoning, and has issued a global appeal to not execute the sentence of the 16-year-old. i think, mr president, that both our parliament and you personally need to take the initiative and remind sudan that it has signed the cotonou agreement on respect for human rights. he needs our immediate intervention. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, there is a serious humanitarian issue that needs your intervention, which i believe you will. on 27 july 2003, a tanker, the tasman spirit, driven by a local sailor, ran aground at the entrance to the port in karachi. we had a serious ecological disaster. there's been a big oil spill in the harbor. since then, pakistani authorities have not allowed the seven crew members to leave pakistan. in the case of the prestige, the spanish authorities applied the polluter pays principle against the person responsible, the ship's captain, but not against the rest of the crew. it's not the cook's fault, it's not the cleaner's fault. in the case of the tasman spirit, however, seven seamen are being held, most of whom are greek. in addition, on 17 august, after the disaster, a crew from a salvage company, whose leader, mr nikos pappas, is also being held by the pakistani authorities, without even being a member of the crew of the tasman spirit, arrived in pakistan. they were just there to save the ship and limit the damage. i'd like your intervention. we got a hostage here. the pakistani minister is in brussels today, meeting with mr solana and mr patten. we'll have to intervene on that.
mr president, neither the celebrations nor the word 'constitution' can hide the anti-people nature of the new treaty which adds another link to the chain which binds the peoples after maastricht, amsterdam and nice. a new treaty, which comes to enshrine the anti-people, pro-monopoly and imperialist policy of the european union, which redistributes power in favour of the already powerful, which intensifies inequality between member states, which institutionalizes neoliberalism and market subordination, which complements the repressive mechanisms and promotes the militarization of the european union, going so far as to adopt the doctrine of preventive military action, under the pretext of terrorism. the contradictions that develop in the intergovernmental conference are secondary, since no one questions either the militarization, the repression or the granting of sovereignty. the disagreements are limited to how exactly the redistribution of power will be carried out. the people do not need a european constitution. they don't even need the european union. we are sure that they will react both through the referendums, where they are held, since the greek people have never been asked and will not be asked now, and in the daily struggles.
mr president, first of all i should like to congratulate the three rapporteurs and in particular mrs pack, because just before the start of our sitting she has shown that behind the harsh political voice that has been hidden there is a sweet melodic voice, and that is very important. i would like to say that this revision, with the addition of the legal conditions it implies, was necessary, is important and leads to better functioning. i would like to express some concerns, however. these concerns concern both some permanent bodies receiving community funds and the selection process for bodies which are not permanent. i am afraid that we are in danger of creating some fat prisoners of the community budget and of making it difficult to carry out the procedures that could be carried out within them. on the other hand, by leaving a considerable margin of discretion at the beginning of the budget for those bodies which are not permanent, i think we are reducing transparency and the right criteria for the selection of beneficiaries. i am particularly concerned about the youth programme. i am afraid that the european youth forum has become too distant from the younger generation and from the bodies which are involved in the real world of youth. i am also afraid that the criteria for the bodies selected, which are, for example, an organisation pursuing an objective of general european interest in the field of youth or an objective which is part of european union policy, have the effect of castrating young people. i believe that we must accept and strengthen the questioning and questioning of the policies of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are discussing seems at first sight to be technical, but it hides behind it a very serious political dimension, since it concerns the funding of organisations which, according to the wording repeated in the explanatory memoranda of all three reports, 'strengthen the european message' and are active in three crucial areas: youth, education and culture. but why should some 40 million euros be spent every year for five years to reinforce the so-called european message? the fact is that it seems that the advertising and promotion by the european union's departments and the member states is not enough to convince people of the union's goodness, nor is there enough funding in these three areas for educational exchanges and specific programmes for youth and culture. the daily experiences of workers, unemployment, austerity, the blow of their conquests and the commodification of everything prove just the opposite. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. without wishing to diminish the work of some of these organisations, we cannot but identify some typical cases of funding, such as that of the european union youth forum, which is an attempt to intervene directly in the youth movement with the aim of preventing the radicalisation of young people. the commission's action in the field of education includes funding for teaching european integration at universities, funding for institutions promoting european union policy and even training national judges in community law. the communist party of greece is categorically opposed to the establishment of propaganda mechanisms which seek to hide the anti-people character of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, you are certainly aware that lack of access to new technologies and digital illiteracy are increasingly developing into new forms of social exclusion that directly threaten women. the data so far reveal large gender differences in both education and the labour market. in the report i have drawn up on behalf of the committee on women's rights, i first identify the causes, such as social stereotypes and cultural prejudices, which restrict the choices of girls and put barriers in their careers, resulting in more general negative consequences for the economy from the unreasonable use of human resources. it is known that three million new jobs were created in the last decade, of which 1 600 000 were filled by women. it is worth noting, however, that over 60% of the new jobs created were in the high-tech sector, where women are underrepresented, especially at the highest levels of technical expertise and decision-making. the economic development in the field of modern technologies under present conditions is thus exacerbating structural weaknesses and gender gaps. the labour market remains gender-divided, with men dominating new technologies and women in lower-paid jobs that require less skills and involve less security. in research and science, women are not only significantly underrepresented, but are present in only a few scientific fields and completely absent from others, while at the same time being strikingly unequally represented across the scientific hierarchy and less likely to secure research funding. of the 500 000 researchers working in industry in europe, only 50 000 are women. in the public sector, in universities and research centres, the proportion varies between one quarter and one third, but in the highest positions of responsibility the proportion is less than 12% for women. the situation is even worse in industrial research, with the new technologies sector showing the worst result of all. greater access for women to research would certainly contribute to the enrichment of scientific methods, subjects and objects. in addition, in the media sector, there is insufficient representation and participation of women journalists in positions of administrative responsibility, and there is a lack of attention to issues of discrimination against women and often unrealistic portrayals of women in the media. at the same time, the internet remains male-dominated and male-targeted, which is discriminatory. research shows differences in the way women and men use internet services. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. in order to increase the number of women in education and training in new technologies, my report proposes the early inclusion of computers and the internet in primary school curricula to encourage young girls to take up positive learning. research suggests that exposure to science and technology at an early age could change women's attitudes before stereotypes begin to influence their behavior. the lisbon strategy and the employment guidelines should be implemented in order to reduce the gender segregation of work, with women concentrating in certain occupations with low skill requirements, low pay and scant development prospects. the commission and the member states should therefore commit themselves to making full use of the structural funds, and in particular the social fund, for training in the new technologies, particularly as regards the entry and re-entry of women into the labour market, and always in the context of the lisbon objectives. at the same time, gender equality policies and programmes need to be implemented, focusing in particular on vocational training, lifelong learning, work-life balance and the equal sharing of family responsibilities between men and women, in order to facilitate women's access to the information society. particular attention should be paid to media content to promote positive images of women, such as the outstanding performance of women at all levels of education. we call on the european commission and the member states to promote the full and equal participation of women in the media, including in the areas of management, programming, management, education and promotion. at the same time, policies should be adopted to improve working conditions in new sectors such as teleworking. particular attention should be paid to improving women's access to the internet and new technologies by creating extensive infrastructure and technological equipment in rural and semi-rural areas, which are currently under-served, especially in the poorest regions and in the accession countries. all european union policies should promote a strategy to secure basic infrastructure, providing access, equipment and connectivity for every home, school, public space and library. in order to combat social exclusion, priority should be given to vulnerable groups such as girls and women, migrants, people with disabilities, orphans, single mothers, rural women, etc. there is also a need for additional data collection by the commission on structural differences in the it sector, in order to investigate the actual participation of women, their representation and trends in the labour market. the committee on women's rights stresses that, to date, the gender dimension in the field of new technology has been completely ignored. in this context, we call on the commission and the council to submit concrete proposals for a strategy and to contribute to the integration of horizontal gender equality policies at the united nations world summit on the information society in geneva in december 2003. the digital economy offers opportunities but also challenges for women, challenges that are different from those of men and are based on their different roles and positions in the family and society. the integration of the gender dimension in the development of new technologies is not only a question of access to quantitative participation and equal representation of women, but a profound question and an opportunity to critically evaluate the culture of the information society, with its values, development strategies, objectives and human resource involvement. i hope that my report will contribute to the public debate on what kind of information society we want.
- (el) mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of this evening's debate is not just one aspect of women's working life in the modern world. this is particularly important for the development of the european union, for the success of the lisbon objectives and, of course, for the future of women. the world is moving towards an information society and our experience has shown that the states, regions and citizens who know the most about these opportunities are also the ones most likely to work and get promoted. this is why new technologies do not in themselves constitute a market sector with a constant increase in the number of jobs. they also affect the development of other sectors. the european union is lagging behind the united states in the research and use of new technologies. however, as the rapporteur and the commissioner have pointed out, even within the european union there are differences between member states, regions and, unfortunately, between the sexes. my friend anna karamanou has taken a very positive initiative in writing a report on this subject. this report will help us to better understand the problem and the need to implement adequate and effective measures by showing appropriate cooperation at european, national and local levels. the rapporteur's proposals cover a wide range of policies to promote the participation of women in the world of new technologies. these are policies relating to the workplace, the world of work and education. as a reason, they insist that, in order to achieve this, women must be involved in the planning of these policies and in the decisions concerning them. i would like to speak mainly about the simplicity of internet access for housewives, because it will make women's lives easier. at community level, the averages vary considerably: 48% of men and 38% of women have a connection at home. experience shows that the benefits of connections for women are many for society. as this is the year of the disabled, i would like to make a special reference to the initiatives taken by mothers to deal with the health problems of their children. there are now websites on the internet where mothers can share their experiences and advocate solutions at an impressive level. take the dyspraxia foundation, founded in 1987 by two english mothers, stella white and marion owen, who deserve to be mentioned. this initiative is now a reference for mothers and an example in several countries in europe and the world. examples include canada and japan, where mothers are setting up similar websites with positive and specific results in applying new methods to deal with their children's physical and mental problems.
the issue we are discussing tonight, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is not just a dimension of women's modern working life, but is of particular importance for the development of the european union, the achievement of the lisbon objectives and, of course, the future of women themselves. the whole world is moving towards an 'information society' and our experience shows that the states, regions and citizens who are better acquainted with the new possibilities have greater opportunities for employment and progress. this is because new technologies are not just a market sector with continuous job growth, but also affect the growth of other sectors. the european union is lagging behind the united states of america in the research and use of new technologies. but within the european union itself there are differences between member states, between regions and, unfortunately, between the sexes, as both the rapporteur and the commissioner have pointed out. it is very positive that mrs karamanou has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on this subject, a report which will make us even more aware of the problem and the need to take appropriate effective measures and to have appropriate cooperation at european, national and local level. the rapporteur's proposals cover a wide range of policies to promote the participation of women in the world of new technologies, policies relating to the workplace, the entrepreneurial sphere and the education sphere, and it is fair to point out that in order to achieve this objective women must be involved in the design and decision-making of the relevant policies. i would like to stress the need to make it easier for households to connect to the internet, because we are making it easier for women themselves. the difference between the community average and the average for the member states is now noticeable: 48% of men and 38% of women have a connection at home. experience has shown that women's access can be of multiple benefits to society. and since this is the year of the disabled, i would like to make a special mention of the initiatives that mothers have taken to address the health problems of their children. today, it is possible to find websites on the internet where mothers share experiences and promote solutions to an impressive degree. i take as an example the dyspraxia foundation, which was set up in 1987 by two english mothers, stella white and marion owen. it's worth mentioning their names. today, this initiative is a reference point for mothers and a role model in several european countries and elsewhere, in canada, japan, where mothers are creating similar websites with positive, concrete results in the implementation of new methods to address the physical and mental health problems of their children.
the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in its communication on a policy to combat illegal immigration of november 2001, the commission envisaged the need to set up a network of immigration liaison officers in the context of the chapter on pre-arrival measures at the external borders of the union. the commission believes that this network should ensure the necessary exchange of information between immigration liaison officers and the coordination that member states should have in third countries to act together on european immigration policy. the action plans adopted by the council on illegal immigration and the management of external borders, as well as the conclusions of the seville and thessaloniki european councils, also refer to the need to set up this network. the commission therefore welcomes the initiative taken by the greek government to submit this proposal. we share the view, as the rapporteur has emphasized, that some of the rules contained in this initiative, particularly as regards the system for exchanging information between liaison officers, are sometimes excessively vague. however, on the whole, the text seems to us to be a good basis for working towards more structured and coordinated cooperation with third countries in the field of immigration. this coordination will become even more important in the future with the new requirements that will soon be adopted for visa policy in third countries. once this regulation has been adopted, it is important that immigration liaison officers posted in third countries constitute effective cooperation networks at local or regional level on the basis of the positive precedent of the network set up in the western balkans at the initiative of the united kingdom, which has proven to produce positive results in the regulation of immigration in that area in relation to the states of the european union.
the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy has adopted an opinion on the proposal. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on foreign affairs of this parliament has discussed the proposal for a regulation implementing an initiative of the hellenic republic, as decided at the thessaloniki summit, in relation to a crucial social and political issue such as illegal immigration. the committee on foreign affairs unanimously adopted a number of amendments, most of which were accepted by the committee on civil liberties and i hope will be accepted by parliament, which will improve the regulation. the european union has already taken steps on this subject in previous councils, but no agreement was reached, so our debate today is a positive confirmation of the political success of the european union. this directive, while not providing a definitive overall result and a complete political response to the issue, is nevertheless an important first step forward. in some ways this policy is being communicated and creates prospects for further improvements. the proposals of the committee on foreign affairs will hopefully improve the regulation, making it more transparent, more democratic, by guaranteeing parliamentary control and cooperation based on respect for the law in the countries where these networks will operate. the operation of these networks will enable better management of the resources available to the european union in this field, improve the european union's relations with the countries in which the networks operate and potentially facilitate the european union's external policy by unifying it in this field and making it transparent to these countries, thus facilitating our relations with them. moreover, given that illegal immigration is accompanied by a variety of other illegal and criminal activities, activities that violate basic human rights and undermine human dignity, such as trafficking in women, drugs, modern slavery, etc., the proper application of this regulation can also provide positive services. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of a new fishing fleet. i hope that the proper application of this regulation, together with other policies to support the development and democratisation of the countries of origin of illegal immigration, will significantly improve the deep-seated social and political problem affecting our societies and give rise to a climate of racism and xenophobia, which offends the humanistic and democratic values of european political and social culture.
madam president, it is indeed strange that after 50 years of european policy on gender equality and 100 years of fighting for and recognising the right to vote for women, we should be trying to convince people of the obvious here, namely that men and women should share equally and fairly all the responsibilities and all the obligations in both private and public life, that there should be a balanced participation of women and men in all democratic institutions and in all the political decision-making centres. in view of the european elections in june, mrs dybkjær's excellent report is indeed of particular value, because it sets the framework within which all member states, particularly the acceding countries, should act to ensure that the proportion of women in the house resulting from the european elections is at least no lower than what we have today, namely 31%. i would like to mention the two countries, estonia and slovenia, which did not bother to send a single woman, not even one for sampling, among the observers they sent to the european parliament. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and it is therefore asking the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further aggravated by the situation in the former yugoslavia. that is why our committee, the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, has made the promotion of democracy and equality one of its top priorities and has taken initiatives to mobilise governments, national parliaments, political leaders and women themselves to achieve this goal, an objective which is not just about putting gender equality into practice and not just in words, but also about the economic and social development of the union through the rational use of the precious human potential represented by women. the lisbon strategy, like other ambitious european policies, urgently needs the full participation of women at all levels of planning and decision-making to achieve its objectives. the future of europe cannot be planned without women. in the run-up to the european elections, further strategies should be developed and legislative measures, positive actions, quotas or political agreements should be envisaged to ensure a balanced participation of women and men in the electoral combinations and the resulting electoral bodies. i hope that the new european parliament of 25 will approach this objective and act as a shining example and model for the rest of the world's parliaments.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. the rapporteur's report gives interesting information on the current situation in the member states and in the european parliament. it also sets out all the aspects of the problem and makes interesting proposals for dealing with it, proposals which are mainly drawn from the experience of the various countries. i think it is very important to promote the exchange of this experience, because it raises awareness among the relevant bodies, gives them ideas for implementing measures and assessing progress. i believe that the european commission should make such actions possible. this year's theme is the action programme on equal opportunities for women in positions of responsibility. i would like to know whether there are any results from the implementation of the programme. i suspect, however, that there is nothing of interest or progress to report because the initiatives of the ngos, to which the programme refers in particular, cannot bear fruit unless there is a public debate in the member states on this subject, involving national and regional parliaments where they exist, and putting political parties, local authorities and social actors before their choices and responsibilities in order to raise awareness throughout society of the issue of women's participation, which concerns the future of the whole of society and not just the future of women. an open dialogue within the parties themselves is also needed to inform and sensitise everyone, from leaders to regional executives, about the lack of women's participation and the need to implement a strategy to support and promote women executives in positions of responsibility. finally, in the run-up to the european elections, i would like to mention that we must raise awareness and inform women as citizens and voters about the meaning of these elections and their importance. the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a serious matter. this is a challenge that concerns us all, both at european and national level, and the european elections are an opportunity to show our will to tackle it.
mr president, we in the kke also observed a minute's silence for the italian soldiers and police officers who were recently killed in iraq and for the victims of the bombings in istanbul. we are deeply saddened by the deaths of so many young people and we express our condolences to their families. we are much more sorry that these young people have lost their lives serving an occupation - i am referring to iraq - the result of the unprovoked, illegal and barbaric invasion by the american and british imperialists, with thousands of victims and enormous destruction. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the main responsible for the unjust and unfortunate loss of italian soldiers and police is the italian government, which hastened to help the attackers by taking part in the occupation, and it must be held accountable to the relatives of the innocent victims. at the same time, we cannot help but notice that the european parliament has not shown the same sensitivity to the thousands of iraqi dead, victims of this barbaric invasion, nor to the victims of the imperialist interventions in yugoslavia and afghanistan, nor to the victims of sharon's barbarity in palestine. we believe that the only real tribute to the dead is the immediate withdrawal of the occupying forces from iraq and the prevention of any further military intervention in the interior of the states, so that no more innocent blood is shed, so that the crime against the peoples is stopped. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, on 8 november 2003 i was in the hague participating in a demonstration in favour of the release of slobodan milosevic. i am not going to speak about mr milosevic now, since i have done so on a number of occasions in the past. i should like instead to refer to the fact that the demonstrators in the hague, most of them serb immigrants, were not allowed to write slogans in their own language. speaking to the police i found out that there is a general rule against slogans written in languages that the police do not understand. this is apparently so that the police can control their content. it is obvious that the netherlands, so tolerant on many things as we all know, will not tolerate uncensored political expression. another incident occurred last saturday at the airport in paris when i was going through a security check on my way to athens. the staff insisted that i take off my jacket, although i had removed from it all metal objects and had gone through the metal detector. upon my refusal, the police were called and the next minute mr 466294 and mr 485684 – they would not give me their names – appeared and tried to convince me that this was the rule and nobody was supposed to contest it. behind this unacceptable behaviour i see a clear effort to terrorise people by having them obey stupid orders. i also see the presumption of guilt of terrorism for any person going through a security check. moreover, if a member of the european parliament can be subjected to such embarrassing and humiliating treatment, i wonder what would happen to others, in particular those whose complexion is a bit darker than average. these two incidents show signs of a police state being gradually built up in the european union, in line with the wish of the ruling class to exercise full control upon their subjects. i look forward to your reactions, mr president.
mr president, the european people's party has proposed that the question of the serious democratic violations in the recent elections in albania be included in this week's urgent topics. the proposal was intended to send an appropriate message to the albanian authorities to prevent any further attempts to intimidate the democratic sentiments of the citizens and candidates of that country. unfortunately, this proposal was rejected by all the other political groups and, again, unfortunately, it was justified by the sad events that took place during yesterday's re-election in albania, with very serious incidents of intimidation, bombing attempts, etc., against citizens and candidates. i would like to believe that the european union will draw the necessary conclusions from this unacceptable situation, which betrays attitudes and behaviour that are completely alien to the european concept of democratic values and procedures.
mr president, i would like to join my voice with yours in condemning these horrific attacks on israeli synagogues in istanbul. as you know, turkey is a country that is proud of the fact that in the middle ages, when jews were persecuted by terrible pogroms in europe, it gave them refuge, and it is rightly proud of this fact of its history. when these terrible attacks took place, the president of turkey happened to be out of his country on an official visit in support of an illegal regime that turkey and the turkish armed forces have established and maintained in defiance of the directives of the international community in northern cyprus. this coincidence is eloquent enough in itself and i hope it will enlighten mr erdogan so that he can, as i am sure he wants, take turkey off the path of lawlessness and tyranny, which only holds tragedy for turkey and the world.
mr president, i would like to reiterate a point raised at the previous partsession in connection with the continued hostage-taking of greek seamen from the tasman spirit by the pakistani authorities. the accident happened in july 2003, four or five months ago, when a pakistani sailor was sailing the tasman spirit in karachi harbour. then the process of restoring the environment and extracting the oil that could be extracted began. on august 17, after the wreck had already been cut in half, a team from greece headed by the shipbuilder mr pappas went to clean up the area. at the moment, the crew of the ship and those who went to clean up the area are being held hostage by the pakistani state without charge, and, in addition to not releasing them, this does not allow the companies that are cleaning up to go there, because they are afraid that they will become hostages themselves. anyway, the ship was insured. maybe the pakistani government has a dispute with the insurance company. but there is no way that the seamen, and especially those who went on holiday to help clean up the environment, can now be held hostage as part of a negotiation between the pakistani authorities and the insurance company. i would therefore ask parliament to help as much as possible to free these hostages.
mr president, i will not comment on what the previous speaker said, i will simply say that it is unthinkable for me to hear such reasoning in this chamber. i would like to ask you to allow me to inform the house of some serious violations which i have observed during my recent visit to estonia and lithuania. in estonia, as in latvia, where half the population is russian or russian-speaking, russian is not recognised as an official language. public services, courts, laws, are all done in a language they do not know well. furthermore, they are denied citizenship of the country where they and their fathers were born. they are subjected to humiliating and highly specialized examinations of language, constitution and history, which very few can pass. they're closing universities and schools in russian. in all three baltic countries communist parties are banned and their members are persecuted. in lithuania, the leaders of the communist party of lithuania, mikolas burakevicius and kuolalis, have been in prison for ten years, on a fabricated charge and a law passed long after their arrest. these and many other things are happening in the baltic states and in other former socialist countries which are joining the union, despite mr verheugen's assurances to the contrary, who has repeatedly expressed his support for these flagrant violations. i shall send you a letter with specific details as i have already done. (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for the opportunity to report on the achievements of the european year of disabled people and the follow-up to it, given that we are a month and a half away from the end of the year. we must bear in mind that disability policies are national policies and the effort made in 2003 is to find all those methods, tools and channels by which we can add european added value to national policies. to date, the year has achieved important objectives related to raising awareness of the rights of persons with disabilities. we have thousands of events in all the member states at national, regional and local level, discussions in parliaments and forums, exchange of good practices between member states, and of course ngos and the disabled people's movement have really contributed to an explosion of events and dissemination of the message about the rights of people with disabilities. the european parliament has given its full support to the year from the outset. on 3 november 2003, the first hearing on lifelong learning opportunities for young people with disabilities was held in parliament, and a few days ago, on 10 and 11 november, the european parliament of people with disabilities met and adopted a resolution to this effect. it is, of course, important to stress that the year is the beginning of a european process and that all the effort and planning does not end at the end of the year. it is extremely important to use the potential that has been developed and it must be said that today in all countries initiatives and innovative actions have been taken, which did not exist in the past, and we also have important legislation, which has been highly promoted in some countries. on 30 october the commission adopted a communication on the follow-up to the year. the main objectives are three. the first is to achieve the adoption and full implementation of the directive on equal treatment in employment and work for people with disabilities. the second is the successful integration of disability issues into all policies. this is our agreement on mainstreaming, so that this policy is not a matter for the ministries of social affairs or the ministries of health or the ministries of employment, but is a horizontal policy that involves all ministries in each country and all portfolios in the commission. the third is to improve accessibility for all. as regards the first point, the implementation of the directive, ladies and gentlemen, i would remind you that in 2000 an anti-discrimination directive was adopted in record time, unprecedented in the european union, but it must be said that the member states did not promote it as quickly as we had hoped. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the directive on equal treatment for people who are discriminated against. the deadline expires at the end of december and only two countries have effectively adopted the directive. but beyond adoption, we will have to move on to implementation, where we will need to make major changes to the rules currently in force in some member states. this will have an impact on employers, both in the public and private sectors, and on the employment practices applied to disabled people, because the letter of the directive on reasonable accommodation will have to be applied. in other words, the workplace should be adapted to the needs of disabled people. the commission will do its duty as guardian of the treaty, and will do its duty to ensure that the directive is adopted at the right time, that it is transposed correctly - not in the wrong way, not without the specific references in the european text - and, of course, that it is implemented. the communication, as i said, has also focused on the issue of horizontal policies concerning disabled people and integration into all individual policies, and we already have examples at european level, with an important step in the field of transport and in the field of electronic communications, the responsibilities of commissioners de palacio and liikanen. the mainstreaming of these issues into all relevant policies should focus on access issues, access to goods, services, buildings, and should be linked to the principle of 'design for all' as set out in the commission's immediately preceding communication. the communication sets out a multiannual rolling action plan. the first priority is employment, which is also the most important factor in the social integration of people with disabilities. i would say that our philosophy is essentially that disabled people should have the right to work and not to receive benefits. the first stage of the action plan, to be developed in 2004 and 2005, will therefore focus on creating the necessary conditions for promoting the employment of people with disabilities. we now estimate that there are 3 million disabled people in europe who could be integrated into the labour market. there are even more people who, with specific policies, with investment in these people and with qualifications commensurate with their capabilities, could enter the labour market. our employment policy will focus on four priorities: access to and retention in employment, lifelong learning, new technologies - which we believe to be one of the most critical elements - because through innovation and research a range of new skills can, across all types of disabilities, really empower these people to deal with their individual disabilities. but at the same time, these tools should be cheap and accessible to everyone. the european market is extremely difficult for these people today. each country has its own specifications, each social system is linked to its own enterprises, so that the same tools are cheap in one country and expensive in another. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in all member states. as a means of supporting the successful integration of these issues into policies, the commission proposed the publication of a biannual report announcing the developments made in each member state and covering the focus each time on planning and new priority options. we believe that this report - the first of which will be published in 2005 - will be an important instrument for putting pressure on the member states, which should announce and publish every two years the developments at institutional and implementation level. finally, the commission proposes to further enhance the involvement of all stakeholders and key actors in policy dialogue so that we can have large but also lasting changes in the whole of the economy and society. i would like to express my satisfaction at the opportunity given to carry out a study, as requested by parliament, on the situation of people with disabilities living in institutions, who are another large category of our fellow citizens with particular and other problems. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, expectations for the year were high. i think we have significant results, especially if we consider - as i pointed out in my introduction - that these policies are largely, almost entirely, national policies. but i believe that all this activation of the year in 2003 has brought the issue of people with disabilities to the top of the political agenda of both the member states and the european union itself. but above all, it brought the disabled people's movement itself to the forefront of politics, putting into practice the slogan "nothing for us without us", that is, their necessary participation at all levels of planning and decision-making.
mr president, the european union's constant preoccupation with the disabled, which is only a matter of declaration, is part of an attempt to conceal the tragic reality of the fact that 90% of the unemployed in the european union - not 70% as those in charge claim - are unemployed, and that there has been a dramatic increase in the number of disabled people without work, combined with the dramatic decrease in the number of disabled children attending special schools or parallel schools in recent years. in greece only 7% of disabled children attend special schools funded by the insured rather than by the state. there is no rehabilitation centre for autistic children over 14 years of age, and few children with intellectual disabilities attend school. of the 2 000 rehabilitation centres that should exist in greece, there are only 200 degraded centres in athens. the problem of disabled people is deeply class-based. equal rights for disabled people means free public health care, welfare, special education, benefits and decent work for all. it means another policy which the european union by its very nature cannot pursue. that is why he resorts to the false words that we speak in greece.
the european year of disabled people has been marked by a number of proposals, interesting ideas and, in general, a wealth of material which must be studied if we are to have a comprehensive policy for disabled people. this is the most difficult part of the whole campaign. if we are to be effective we must focus our policy on three objectives. first, to convince constitutionalists that it is time to move to a new generation of rights, recognized by the constitutions of countries as an integral part of fundamental rights. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rights of disabled people are respected and that they are not discriminated against. secondly, we should press the finance ministers to recognise that the cost of dealing with people with disabilities should not be treated as a consumption cost but as an investment in human capital and therefore as a productive cost. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the member states are able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the right to vote is not restricted to those who are not members of the european parliament. lastly, but equally important, is the launching of a campaign to convince the rest of the public that the problems of people with disabilities do not concern a particular category, but society as a whole, if we want to have a cohesive society with improved living standards. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the problem of disabled people is a common problem and only then will it be possible to achieve a satisfactory result. in particular, in the labour sector, employers should be convinced that their involvement in measures to support these people and their use in the workplace will be highly rewarding for them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. in conclusion, i should like to congratulate you on the initiative you have taken and on the programme you have announced, but i would say, along with the other colleagues, that to be successful it must be comprehensive and include legislative measures.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. among these are the reference to competition-oriented research in paragraph 5, the approach to copyright from the perspective of the commercial interests of private enterprises in paragraph 26, the support of publicly funded market-oriented research and the compliance of funding with the european union competition rules in paragraph 32. we still have a proposal for tax incentives for private research efforts, while the international cooperation that seems to be of most interest is that at the level of enterprises in paragraph 41. the most worrying thing is that the criterion for the success of any research effort is whether it will have a positive economic effect, while paragraph 37 proposes the establishment of a corresponding evaluation system. the above proposals, as well as the daily political practice in research and higher education, make the positive remarks of the report sound like a simple eulogy. the report as it has come to be has a general orientation which i find to be contrary. we are faced with the demolition of the value system developed in the previous centuries and the construction of a new structure, based on commercialization and corporate profit.
mr president, it is true that because we are approaching the european elections and the end of the term of office of this commission, in these few months that remain the course of history cannot be changed. however, the commission must obviously continue to do its job to the end. in the transport sector, i would like to say that a great deal of work has been done over the years: the single european sky, the two railway packages, the liberalisation of port services and the new proposal for the transeuropean networks, where i would of course like to point out that the main issue is not so much the legislative proposal as the financing, which i personally have some doubts about. in any case, as far as the transport sector is concerned, i think the main issue here is for us and the commission to put pressure on the council to close as quickly as possible certain matters which have been pending for some two years. the meijer report on urban transport, for example, is a classic example, and from then on we must take advantage of the time until the elections to move forward on other issues, such as the harmonization of certain social provisions in the field of road transport, the amended proposal for a regulation on the action of member states on the conditions for the provision of public services in the field of rail, road and inland waterway transport, and the ban on heavy goods vehicles and lorries on weekends, a subject which also has been dragging on for a very long time. i would also like to point out that, although regional policy is not a purely legislative matter, the commission must present the third cohesion report as soon as possible so that this parliament, before the european elections, can express itself clearly on this very important issue. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
in writing. - we obviously voted against this report, the sole purpose of which is to admonish governments which do not implement their own decisions quickly enough to liquidate public telecommunications services in order to open up the sector ever more to competition and the race for profit. the rapporteur is astonished at the benefits of competition in the sector concerned. these so-called benefits are the job cuts that have already taken place or those that will take place, the threat to wages and working conditions, the generalization of precariousness in companies that are being privatized - such as france telecom in france - and the risk of mass layoffs in private companies that are engaged in a merciless trade war. for users, the choice is perhaps more varied, but only towards a paying customer base. telephone booths are being removed in many places where they are not profitable but more necessary than elsewhere. telephone access is becoming less accessible or more expensive, which is affecting those in the lower income groups who need it most, especially the elderly. as we are opposed to the privatisation of public telecommunications services, we reject this report and the social regression to which it contributes.
- (el) mr president, i should like to make it clear, in relation to the minutes, that the statement i made yesterday before the agenda concerning the italian soldiers and police killed in iraq also applies to the statement made by president cox, who opened today's sitting by addressing the same subject, and to the minute of silence observed by the european parliament.
mr president, i would like to point out for the record that the statement i made yesterday before the agenda on the italian soldiers and police killed in iraq also applies to the statement made by president cox opening today's sitting on the same subject and the minute of silence observed by the european parliament.
- (el) mr president, i read today in the minutes of yesterday's sitting that the statement i made about the situation in the baltic states and the flagrant violations of human rights was a response to mr tannock's speech. that's not true. i began my statement yesterday before the agenda by saying a word about mr tannock's statement, to which i have made some reservations, before moving directly to the subject of my speech, namely the situation in the baltic states. i would therefore ask you to correct the minutes. my speech was not a response to mr tannock's.
mr president, i read today in the minutes of yesterday's sitting that the statement i made on the situation in the baltic states and the gross violations of human rights was made at the time of mr tannock's speech. this is not right. i began my statement before the agenda yesterday by talking about what mr tannock said, characterizing it, but then i went straight to the main subject of my speech, which was the situation in the baltic states. i would therefore ask that the minutes be corrected. my intervention was not about mr tannock's intervention.
- the report (α5-0385/2003) by mrs miguélez ramos, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the improvement of the safety of ships and port facilities is on the agenda.
the commission's vice-president - (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent wave of attacks has also affected the european union. this morning we observed a minute's silence in memory of the young italian soldiers, but also of the iraqi civilians who lost their lives. it is clear that no country or sector is immune. whether we like it or not, such acts can happen anywhere and at any time, for any reason. the maritime sector is no exception. i would remind you of the case of the cruise ship achille lauro. it is true that this was in 1985, but since then the limburg oil tanker has also been the target of a terrorist attack. the commission proposal aims to promote the effective and harmonised implementation of the security measures for ships and port facilities ratified by the member states of the union in the framework of the international maritime organisation. the proposal aims to create a common maritime security area guaranteeing an identical level of security for all maritime trade within the european union. this proposal is in line with the text adopted by parliament and the council on civil aviation safety. in both the maritime and civil aviation sectors, a determined action by the european union in the field of security can only prove to our international partners that we take all security-related issues very seriously. instruments adopted within the framework of the international maritime organisation shall apply only to ships engaged in international trade and to port facilities hosting such ships. it would be desirable to extend certain provisions of these instruments to national maritime traffic within europe in order to achieve the overall objective of safety in the maritime transport sector. it is therefore essential to ensure that the measures to be applied are proportionate to the risks involved. priority must be given to passenger transport. the proposal goes further than some of the provisions adopted by the international maritime organisation. it thus makes the application of certain provisions which were considered only as recommendations in the who agreement mandatory, in order to guarantee the maximum level of safety provided for and to prevent divergent interpretations by member states. to that end, it shall establish a single national contact point responsible for the supervision of security measures for ships and port facilities. the proposal also contains a provision for a commission supervised inspection procedure to ensure the implementation of the national plans adopted under this regulation. the proposal also adapts certain provisions adopted under the imo to the national maritime traffic of the member states. it extends the scope of the who safety measures for passenger ships sailing on inland waterways more than 20 nautical miles from the coast. the application of this measure is extended to all other passenger ships operating on domestic routes. cargo ships will also be affected to some extent. in addition, there is a provision for adaptation procedures for ships on regular services. i would like to reiterate once again that the imo is determined to bring these maritime safety measures into force as from 1 july 2004. the main objective of this proposal for a regulation is to ensure that the member states of the union adopt the necessary measures within the time limit. it will ensure that member states respect their international commitments and that the application of these measures is harmonised throughout the european union. it's imperative that everything is in place by the deadline. i can therefore only support any action leading to rapid adoption without prejudice to the content. i note that parliament and the rapporteur are fully aware of this. they have been working with the council for several months now to get the text adopted as quickly as possible, preferably at first reading. in this connection, i would like to thank mrs miguélez ramos for her excellent work. i also thank the whole of parliament for its efforts to reach a quick, flexible and effective solution in the interests of the citizens of the european union.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, i would like to congratulate the committee and the rapporteur because the need for the development of safe ports and shipping is proving to be very great every day. and i understand the urgency of this matter. i have to complain, however, that a proposal by the committee on industry to co-finance the cost of these measures was rejected. a study carried out by the oecd in july 2003 estimates the initial cost of the measures to be taken at $ 1 279 million 'initial investment' and then $ 730 million per year for their maintenance. as you can see, the enormous costs that will be shared by european ports will now have to be borne by the ports, the shipping companies and the small and mediumsized enterprises operating on the periphery of these actions, since there will be no co-financing as proposed by the committee on industry. we are aware that the competitiveness of the european economy will be disproportionately affected in relation to other competitive economies. the fact that jobs are certain to be lost and that small and mediumsized enterprises will be closed has also been ignored. i am afraid that all this has not been taken into account as much as it should have been, and i am afraid that by forcing the regulation to be passed quickly we have sacrificed it.
the fifth pillar of the european union is not the ideals of democracy and freedom as proclaimed in the report, but the service of big capital, the shipping industry in this particular case, which dictates laws and measures as a shield to protect its interests. the aim is to increase its profits by abolishing the fundamental rights of seafarers. once again, under the pretext of terrorism, an attempt is being made to impose a regime of chauvinism and policing on ports and ships, with an extensive network of surveillance and repression, with the aim of striking at political and trade union activity, of undermining the popular movement, in view of the reactions provoked by the promotion of privatisations. that is why there is no mention of the real problems and the real threats to safety at sea, namely the health and safety of workers on ships and in ports, the ageing fleet, the 'deadbeat' ports or the 'opportunity' ports that the privatisation directive is touting. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the threat of a possible catastrophe. no mention of the fact that regional decisions on ship safety actually undermine the role of the international maritime organization and undermine safety rules in the context of economic warfare and profit-making. we are dealing with a miserable transaction between capitalists, at the expense of the safety of human life at sea, of the marine environment, in order to increase their super profits. the shipping capital is being reinforced through flags of convenience, privatisation of insurers and the absence of effective inspection control by the state authorities. these are the real and major terrorist threats to shipping and not the pirate ghosts the european union is looking for. we must develop a mass, strong popular movement against these policies of seizing public property and imposing a medieval regime of labour and wage slavery.
mr president, after congratulating mrs miguélez ramos on her work, i should like to clarify what this is about, because there may have been some misunderstandings. what we are doing is adopting at community level an agreement which was voted by all the member states of the european union in the international maritime organisation. the commission is coming today, and parliament agrees with it, to adopt these measures at community level so that we can finish an hour sooner and put them into effect. and what distinguishes this directive from other european initiatives of a similar nature is that we are here to act in advance, before there are direct disasters, whereas, as we know, we have so far acted at community level after shipwrecks and natural or other disasters. i therefore think that this initiative is entirely positive. but there are no concerns? there are no questions? there are. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and it may be overburdened or in some cases it may distort competition because in other member states less will have to be done and in others more and therefore there may be an imbalanced burden on industry. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am glad that the council has at least agreed to them. i would like to ask the commission to submit a study on competition and the burden of costs, which will be presented by the european commission. i therefore ask the commissioner, because there is indeed concern in the industry, to assure us today that the commission will proceed swiftly with the publication of this study, which will cover the concerns of the industry as to the operation of competition in ports from now on.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, i would like to thank once again the rapporteur, mrs miguélez ramos, for the work she has done, and the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism for the way in which they have carried out their work and the improvements they have made to the text, since most of the amendments can be accepted, even if in some cases they are worded a little differently. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs, mr oreja arburúa and mr folias, of the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs, justice and home affairs and the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy respectively, for their views which have also served to improve the text proposed by the commission. the close cooperation between the various rapporteurs, the commission and the council makes it possible - and i hope it does - to adopt this text at first reading. there are many amendments, which are highly technical, which - if i understand correctly - seek to bring the commission's proposal closer to the text derived from the council's activities, which, for its part, has held numerous meetings on this project, in the presence of experts. i am glad that, thanks to this interaction - a sort of almost permanent trilogue throughout the whole procedure - we have been able to find a positive answer to almost everything. i would like to point out, in response to what has been raised by some of the honourable members, in particular mr folias and mr hatzidakis, that we accept the amendment which calls for a study focusing on the distribution of funding between public authorities and operators without prejudice to the distribution of competences between member states and the european community, a study analysing the costs that will be incurred by the implementation of these measures, as well as their impact on the competitiveness of the maritime sector in relation to alternative transport systems and on the european economy in general. we will of course present this study to parliament and the council and, if necessary, make the appropriate proposals on the basis of it. there are five amendments, however, which raise some problems for the commission and which i would like to comment on briefly. two of them we cannot accept because they call into question the delicate balance we have struck with the council on the extension of these measures to national traffic. i prefer those of your amendments which reflect precisely the balance that has been achieved. there are three new amendments on comitology which, as long as they do not jeopardise the role of the maritime safety committee, as provided for in regulation (ec) no 2099/2002, we can accept. finally, given the complexity of the tasks ahead, the commission agrees to abolish the early implementation of these measures, although i consider it essential that each state adopt a national programme for the implementation of the rules we propose in this regulation. in short, the commission can accept 62 amendments in full, 5 in part and reject - as i said - only 2. these figures speak clearly of the cooperation that has taken place, which i welcome and for which i would once again like to express my gratitude to all the honourable members for the work they have done over the past few months.
- the agenda calls for the report (α5-0364/2003) by mr jarzembowski on the joint draft directive of the european parliament and of the council on access to the market for port services, approved by the conciliation committee.
the rapporteur. - (de) mr president, madam vice-president, after tough negotiations, parliament's delegation has succeeded in convincing the council to accept a large number of provisions which are not only favourable to existing port systems and port workers but will also ensure fair conditions of competition in and between ports. although we have not been able to persuade the council to accept certain requirements, i would recommend that all members of this house accept the result of the conciliation procedure and express their satisfaction with it. considerations relating to the legal security of ports, port operators and workers require the european union to adopt a first fundamental directive on ports. rejecting this compromise would mean leaving open for several years more vital issues for european transport policy, in particular market access within ports and the conditions of competition between them, which would open the door to distortions of competition between ports and uncontrollable duplication of their services. let me warn those members of this house who advocate the rejection of the compromise: if it is rejected, the commission would be empowered to examine the situation in each port. it would be better to set up basic rules so that everyone knows from the outset which rules to follow. parliament is particularly pleased that the council has accepted its request that the definition of self-help should cover only seafarers in shipping companies and not personnel on shore. in this connection, parliament was able to express in concrete terms the main concerns of port operators and workers. in order to reach this compromise, the parliament delegation also had to abandon its general requirement for prior authorisation for port services. the council intends to apply the principle of subsidiarity and leave this competence to the member states. however, we were able to accept the idea that member states should ensure that the competent authorities can require prior authorisation for the provision of port services, so that this is left to the discretion of the member states. the council finally accepted parliament's amendments concerning the time limits and conditions for authorizations and transitional provisions; parliament has thus ensured that equity participation is treated in the same way as leasing contracts. the parliament's delegation also succeeded in imposing the amendment or withdrawal of authorisations in the event of non-compliance with the criteria governing authorisation or the provisions of social legislation. it is therefore important to stress that we have taken an unambiguous position on the social conditions of dock workers and have done a remarkable job. the council has also accepted that member states should adopt provisions requiring new service providers to pay appropriate compensation to previous providers, but - and we are not satisfied with this request - the council wishes to limit this provision to providers whose authorization period is reduced by the new directive. some see a certain logic in this request. national legislation must apply in all other cases. parliament has had to accept with regret that piloting services remain within the scope of the directive. this requirement is however considered acceptable, given the particular importance that the council and the parliament attach to piloting services for safety and environmental protection and the fact that the competent authorities may limit piloting activity to a single provider for reasons of public safety. parliament finally succeeded in removing the council's limitation on the duration of the licence for piloting services. i think that parliament has taken a further step and succeeded in extending the objectives of the directive to include the establishment of fair conditions of competition in and between ports. to this end, ports and providers of port services shall disclose to the member states and the commission the financial relationships they have with public authorities. the commission, for its part, has an obligation to take the necessary measures to eliminate distortions of competition and has already stated its willingness to adopt explicit guidelines on the amount of public subsidies allowed in ports. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the outcome of the conciliation procedure is a great success for all of us, given the extremely negative attitude which the council initially showed. i would like to thank in particular the italian presidency of the council and the vice-president for having enabled us to bring this complex matter to a successful conclusion. let me make one last remark: we are not dealing with isolated problems specific to ports. the ability of eu ports to compete is also at stake, given their crucial role as nodes in the trans-european networks. we all have a responsibility to improve the efficiency of these ports, and i therefore ask you to accept and support the outcome of the conciliation procedure.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the house and the conciliation committee for their work on the proposal for a directive on market access for port services. i would like to thank in particular the chairman of the conciliation committee, mr imbeni, and the rapporteur, mr jarzembowski, for the hard work they have put into such a complex matter. the house is called to vote on a compromise approved by the conciliation committee. i want to make it very clear that the commission supports this compromise; although i know that there are some members who are opposed to it, i would ask members to think carefully before rejecting this compromise. i consider this an essential commitment for european transport policy. this commitment does not, in any way, suggest the liberalisation of port services, as i have heard during the previous debate. not by a long shot. it is only a small opening for certain types of services to be provided by self-handling, that is, by the on-board staff only. ladies and gentlemen, we are talking every day about wanting environmentally friendly and sustainable transport, about wanting to import short sea shipping, short sea shipping, so we cannot vote the next day against a measure which is going to facilitate the development of this type of transport. what i want to say to the honourable members is that we have to be consistent in our approaches. the proposal we are voting on, especially as it has come out of the discussions in parliament, the amendments by parliament, the negotiations with the council, is a very balanced proposal, very moderate, but one which can clearly serve to boost maritime cabotage, an essential issue in ensuring a sustainable transport system in europe. it has been three years of negotiations and i simply think that to reject this initiative would pose very serious problems for transport policy in the years to come. i would like to remind you of some aspects of the text which will be put to the vote on thursday. the original proposal was limited to rules applicable within a given port. parliament insisted strongly on the need to address the question of competition between ports and this point, which the commission took up, has been corrected in the final text with the council's agreement. the commission's initial proposal concerned self-help with on-board and ground staff. it is true, we were opening up the question of self-help for companies with ground staff. parliament raised two kinds of questions: one, social guarantees to prevent social dumping, which the commission accepted, and two, to limit even further the scope of self-help and to restrict it to the staff on board. right now, we're talking only about the personnel on board. it is obvious that this self-help of the on-board staff will work with short-distance transport. it will not work with large trans-oceanic transports because of the type of goods being transported and the type of ship being used. so we are talking about something that is key to the development of short-distance transport. parliament's position has therefore been maintained and self-help has been limited to on-board staff. and, in addition, with some of the social rules to which i referred earlier. in the initial proposal, placement was considered a commercial service subject to all the rules. parliament raised the question of excluding apprenticeships and in the end we reached an agreement which is somewhat open in terms of apprenticeships. but let us be very clear: the apprenticeship service is not being liberalized. what we are talking about is that, for example - and once again we are talking about cabotage and short sea shipping - a captain who makes a route every day, or two or three times a week, who knows the route perfectly well, can eventually get a licence so as not to need the practice. we are talking about a measure which is key for short sea shipping. this will not affect trans-oceanic traffic where the ship arrives at the same port once, twice or five times a year. this question concerns only those ships which have regular lines, that is to say, once again the question of short sea shipping, of maritime cabotage. i would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the commission has been extremely flexible throughout this whole discussion. because we believe that some of the measures proposed by the honourable members have improved the texts - i have not referred to them, because they were not controversial. we have tried to balance as much as possible the problems raised or reflected by others, including those of a political nature. what remains at the end is the minimum, but it is a vital minimum, and i want to emphasize this point, vital to be able to promote cabotage, especially cabotage within the european union. i would therefore ask you to support, to vote in favour of, this compromise proposal which was reached the other day in the conciliation committee. i would like to thank once again mr imbeni and, of course, mr jarzembowski for their work over the years.
mr president, today with the jarzembowski report, which i congratulate on the long effort it has taken to get here, we are essentially doing nothing more than what we did when parliament asked for the postal services to be opened up to competition, the rail services to competition, the air transport to competition. it would be strange if this parliament, which played a leading role in opening up these services, were to come and say that for reasons that are incomprehensible to me at least, there must be an exception to this long series of opening up the market for all these services, and that exception must be port services. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of a new system of fishing quotas, which is not yet in place. so, to me at least, it is frankly incomprehensible why some people are still opposed to what we have achieved and which, we must know, does not make the industry entirely happy, particularly the shipowners, who would like something more daring. i, for my part, think that this compromise before us serves to some extent the interests of industry, since there are other providers, it breaks the monopoly and there is more choice, but it also serves the workers because in this way new businesses are created and new businesses mean new jobs. it is therefore a step forward, mr president, and that is why we must support the outcome of the conciliation and vote in favour.
commission. – according to preliminary reports during the repetition of the local elections in the himara region on 16 november, a number of irregularities and incidents took place. apparently those events have not allowed the normal conduct of democratic elections in the area and of course the commission regrets this. the commission is currently waiting for further information on these events and is attentively following the handling of the situation by the albanian authorities. the commission will take any step it considers appropriate following a detailed analysis of the situation.
i am grateful to the commissioner for his reply. as you said, unfortunately the anomalies which initially prompted my question were repeated in the previous day's elections in himara, with a veritable orgy of violence, injuries, bombings against the candidates, etc. i am glad that, as you said, the commission will be closely monitoring the situation in order to take appropriate measures in the context of any cooperation between albania and the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, commissioner, it has already been mentioned that one in four european citizens, about one million a year, will die of cancer, one of the main causes of death in the european union. the commission's proposal to the council on the pre-symptomatic control of the disease has found support and sympathy among the representatives of all the political groups in the european parliament. the rapporteur mentioned that younger and younger people are being affected by various forms of neoplasms. information and health education of citizens on the prevention and early detection of warning signs, together with valid pre-symptomatic tests, have led to positive results, such as in breast cancer, which affects a large proportion of women of working age. even for those forms of neoplasms that do not achieve complete cure, longer survival and a better quality of life are now ensured. i thought it appropriate to support the commission's proposal with amendments aimed at ensuring equal access for citizens to pre-symptomatic screening, hospital and follow-up services, always on the basis of best practice. the need for psychological support for those who eventually become cancer patients also emerges as a key parameter in the ultimate outcome of the disease. mr president, in many countries the very mention of the word 'cancer' is avoided. the civilian population is facing a panic and fear. it's up to us to turn fear into productive awareness and attention. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, let me congratulate the rapporteur on his substantive contributions to the original proposal.
in writing. the general electronic identification of sheep and goats is a modern system which will essentially be the indelible identity of each small animal, which is essential to identify it wherever it is and to monitor its health without any doubt. however, without community funding, such labelling imposes a heavy financial burden on sheep and goat farmers. in greece in particular, where sheep and goat farming employs the whole family of the farmer, day and night, 365 days a year, without christmas and easter and with an unacceptably low economic output in relation to the effort paid and the capital invested, such an unreasonable and unfair financial burden would lead many producers to abandon their work and the countryside and the livestock stock to a tragic decline. consequently, cheese factories producing only goat and sheep milk would close, adding unemployed artisanal cheese-makers and cheese-makers to the ranks of unemployed farmers, while reducing the production of the only greek cheeses based on goat and sheep milk, such as feta. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. at the same time, however, the general introduction of electronic identification of sheep and goats by 1 july 2006 is considered too hasty for greece, where the number of sheep and goats is greater than the total of sheep and goats in the other 14 member states. that period should therefore be extended by at least one year.
mr president, i have been informed by guatemala that ricardo de león regil, candidate of the guatemalan national revolutionary union, was brutally murdered on the 16th. ricardo de león regil was a doctor with wide recognition and appreciation for his work. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, the guatemalan people, like the other peoples of latin america, have experienced in a very tragic way the foreign intervention and exploitation of the local oligarchy. the guatemalan people have been forced to take the path of armed struggle to defend their basic rights. his hard struggle led to the peace process and the government that followed committed itself to promoting certain reforms. six years later, not only have these reforms not advanced, but poverty reigns, while the people's leaders are murdered by paramilitaries who go unpunished. along with the sentence, mr president, i would ask that you address the guatemalan authorities to fully investigate this heinous crime.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is perhaps a good coincidence that the last word from parliament today is on the content of the constitution for a social europe. the european parliament has already taken a number of important steps in the draft constitution drawn up by the convention on the future of europe, including the provisions on the social dimension of europe, on social europe. the fact that the assembly has dealt with this matter is of particular importance because it was not the laeken agenda that brought it about but the initiative of the members of the assembly themselves, and rightly so, because the interest of the peoples of europe is much more, i believe, driven by the proclamation of the goal of full employment, by the strengthening of social dialogue, by the strengthening of the legal basis for public enterprises or for public health, than by whether the commissioners will be 13 or 23 or whether europe will have one or two foreign ministers. the intergovernmental conference must respect the text of the convention. better to intervene in one thing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the employment situation in the community is not affected by the new economic and social situation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the representatives of the european council and the european commission made no secret of their concern at the contradictions that have emerged at the intergovernmental conference in the context of the debate on the new eu 'constitutional treaty'. however, the contradictions are of a very minor nature and do not change the reactionary nature of the text. the role of the foreign minister is of concern to them, and none of them question the militarization of the eu and its alignment with nato. the question is not whether we will be able to give more sovereignty, but how exactly we will redistribute power. the european parliament is not saying a word against the 'god-like' nature of the market economy, nor against the strengthening of the repressive mechanisms, while it is only concerned about the role reserved for it. in other words, the fight is over the quilt. however, some concern is expressed about the outcome of the referendums (where they are held), which shows their concern about the growing popular discontent, despite the misleading propaganda and the results of the polls so far. the people do not need a 'euro-constitution' or even a european union. they must intensify their struggle to defend and expand their conquests, to tear down the edifice that the exploiters are building, to finally change society.
mr president, on behalf of the european people's party and the european democrats, i would like to ask for the vote on mrs smet's report to be postponed until the first part-session in december. the reason is that paragraph 13, which will be incorporated into the report, was translated into the various languages very late and the political groups want to be able to table amendments or to request a separate vote. the time we had available did not allow for this proposal to be made, because we are following the procedure of article 110a. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, as chairman of the committee on women's rights, i believe that the procedure followed was absolutely correct and that today's vote should not be postponed. i am not saying that we should not vote on the report. we therefore reject mrs cratza's proposal for a postponement.
in writing. - (el) the proposal for a council recommendation on cancer screening is particularly important in terms of information, education and public awareness, particularly with regard to early warning symptoms, early diagnosis and more effective treatment. in addition to proposals for mammograms for breast cancer in women aged 50-69, for occult blood testing in the stool of people aged 50-74 and for cervical swabs in women aged 20-30, other urgent actions are needed. one of these concerns special programmes in selected workplaces where, given the environment, there is a serious risk of cancer. the same applies to special programmes and diagnostics within universities and higher education in general so that cancer screening becomes a routine requirement from an early age.
i think that the commission's communication also touches on a very interesting subject, but mrs napoletano's report also contains very good ideas and proposals. however, there is a general question which i think has been raised by other colleagues. can we put all these countries that surround us to the east and south in a common denominator? can we deal with russia, which is a major world power, in the same way that we deal with countries like moldova, armenia, georgia, azerbaijan, or in the same way that we deal with the countries of north africa where, perhaps, the main issue we have to ask is that of democratization? it is a big question, as is where europe stops. i think mr verheugen is right when he says that if we put the western balkans and turkey in that category, they will obviously feel that they are being underestimated. but i see that in the proposal that the committee on foreign affairs is making for ukraine we are discussing the possibility of its future accession. why not armenia? why not georgia? and why not for russia, which is within the european union, and has been proposed by some governments. that's why i'm afraid of this uniformity. i think we need to find some common rules but, above all, to formulate comprehensive policies for the large sections around us. i repeat that a special effort is needed for the countries of north africa in the field of democracy. we have tolerated the violation of democracy and have often supported it - remember the events in algeria or egypt - because of our own strategic objectives and because of the desire to have stable regimes, albeit one that is stable. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i think we should start with the question of democracy for these countries.
the commission's initiative and that of the european union in general for a wider europe is a good step towards the unification and communicalization of our policy. the excellent report by mrs napoletano provides an interesting political framework for a strategy for the same surrounding region of the european union. this strategy allows for planning and targets, but at the same time it maintains the flexibility necessary for each area around us, based on its specificity. our main priorities are defined by good relations, peace, economic and political cooperation. far from us any thought of new walls, of new divisions. the commission's document proposes the economic element. the report by mrs napoletano proposes the political element, which means initiatives for peace in the middle east, the caucasus, the balkans and elsewhere. but we as a parliament can also take the initiative by stepping up our efforts. in this context, i believe, and i propose, that the european parliament should establish, as it has done with other regional cooperation projects, a joint parliamentary committee with the countries of the trans-pacific partnership, which already has a parliamentary assembly, intergovernmental cooperation, a development bank, a permanent secretariat and in which, above all, 13 countries, among others, participate. these include members and candidates for membership of the european union, the countries of the caucasus, the balkans, russia, ukraine, moldova and, in general, countries of particular political interest to the european union.
i suggest. article 2 (2) of the schengen convention provides that, for reasons of public policy or national security, a contracting party may, after consulting the other contracting parties, decide that appropriate national border controls at internal borders shall be carried out for a limited period. if immediate action is required on grounds of public policy or national security, the contracting party concerned shall take the necessary measures and inform the other contracting parties thereof as soon as possible. for the application of these provisions, the executive committee adopted on 20 december 1995 the decision on the procedure for applying article 2 (2) of the schengen convention. in accordance with the texts referred to above, namely oj l 239, 22.9.2000, p. 133, the joint action of 26 may 1977 on cooperation in the field of public order and security (oj l 147, 5.6.1997, p. 1) and the council conclusions of 13 july 1997 on the security of european council meetings and other events of equal importance (document 10916/01 jaai 82), the italian presidency sponsored a draft council resolution on the security of european council meetings and other events of equal importance. the draft resolution does not abolish the civil liberties enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union of 7 december 2000 (oj c 364, 18.12.2000, p. 1); in particular, it contains precise provisions on data protection for the exchange of personal data.
i thank the minister for his answer, which of course worries me. i would like to ask him the following supplementary question: what is the fate of this motion for a resolution, that is to say, has it been accepted in principle by the other 14 and what are the main provisions contained in this motion for a resolution?
i suggest. i am not in a position to go into detail about what measures may be taken following behaviour which does not comply with the invitation addressed by the european union; i can only say that there is this address and this will. the choice of concrete and practical approach must obviously be made at this stage, also in relation to the choices that may be made later by countries which do not respond to our requests.
i thank the president-in-office for his reply. the european union has a duty to help the people of the region, and i am sure that the european union will do its utmost to help the people of the region, and i am sure that the european union will do its utmost to help the people of the region. i wanted to ask you something more specific: does the council consider that the observations made on israel at the association council meeting are sufficient? does the european union see any scope at this time for greater involvement in the road map or in support of the geneva initiative? i would like to hear something more specific, which is why i put the question.
commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr lagendijk for his excellent report on the annual report on the stabilisation and association process produced by the commission in march 2003. the commission and the council need the full support and commitment of parliament in our efforts to help these countries with their reforms and in bringing them closer to the european union. mr lagendijk's report touches upon some of the essential issues in our current relations with the western balkans. we have taken note of all the suggestions made in the report and will consider them carefully. i would like to comment on some of the specific points raised in the report. firstly, financial assistance. we are grateful for the support expressed in the thessaloniki agenda for the commission's proposal to increase the cards budget by more than eur 200 million for the period 2004-2006, and welcome the fact that the commission's proposal for the 2004 budget has been approved at first reading. we will also need to reflect carefully on financial assistance for the western balkans, in view of the next financial perspectives starting in 2007. concerning the visa regime, the peoples of the region attach great importance to this issue. the commission will hold discussions with the countries in due course, within the framework of the sap. this is a long-term issue, however, and has to be put in a broader context. any progress in this area is also linked to the country's ability to implement major reforms in areas such as the rule of law, combating organised crime, corruption and illegal migration, as well as improving administrative capacity, border control and the security of documents. as regards the thessaloniki commitments, i believe that work is well under way on implementing our part of the commitments made in thessaloniki. i am pleased to report that the framework regulation, which will provide the legal base for the european partnerships, was adopted by the commission last week. these partnerships will help the countries to focus their attention on priority areas and will thus contribute to speeding up the european integration process. twinning, which involves using the human resources of member states to help the countries of the western balkans, is already being used. taiex, the technical assistance information exchange office, which will help these countries harmonise their legislation with the acquis, will be operational in the near future, and preparations to open up participation in community programmes and agencies are ongoing. i am pleased to inform you that the feasibility study on the opening of negotiations for a stabilisation and association agreement with bosnia-herzegovina was adopted by the commission yesterday. the study points to both progress and continuing weaknesses. against this background, the commission thinks that it should be able to recommend to the member states the opening of saa negotiations when bosnia-herzegovina has made sufficient progress in meeting a number of short-term priorities that are central to the implementation of such stabilisation and association agreements. croatia's application is being dealt with in accordance with the usual procedures. we received, within the deadline, more than 10 000 pages of answers from croatia and if all goes well we hope to finish our work on the opinion by march or april. we also hope that croatia will be able to improve in areas which are, by the way, indicated in paragraph 37 of the lagendijk report. i note the suggestion of a neutral stance on the relationship between serbia and montenegro. the policy of the european union is to support the state union of serbia and montenegro for the period of the three years provided by the belgrade agreement. the terms of the agreement are that at the end of that period, it is up to serbia and montenegro whether they wish to stay together. the commission has begun work on a feasibility study for serbia and montenegro. this will be a thorough objective assessment designed to determine whether the countries are ready to start negotiations for a stabilisation and association agreement. as things stand today, we need to see further substantial progress on key issues such as the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, cooperation and development in the serbia and montenegro internal market and a single trade policy, as well as political and economic reforms. as regards the process leading to the decision of the final status of kosovo, let me recall that the european union supports full implementation of united nations security council resolution 1224 and the 'standards before status' policy. like the council, we welcome the intention of the special representative of the united nations secretary-general, mr harry holkeri, to set out more concrete guidelines for progress, and to implement the 'standards before status' policy on the basis of a work plan to be coordinated with the european union's monitoring of standards. we have taken note that the first opportunity for an overall review will be in mid-2005. 2004 is, therefore, an important year for kosovo's provisional institutions of self-government to consolidate a truly multi-ethnic and democratic society. let me reiterate one key point. whatever the final status, the people of kosovo will have their place in europe.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles. madam president, in the context of the second report on the stabilisation and association process for south-east europe, the opinion of the committee on industry supports the commission's proposal and i would of course like to congratulate the rapporteur. we believe that, in the context of the commitments of the thessaloniki european council of june 2003, the establishment of partnerships for european integration for the western balkans should be a medium-term objective on the basis of an action plan - that is our proposal - setting out the measures and actions to be undertaken by the western balkan countries and the european union. the action plan should include increased support for institution building, of course, but also for infrastructure projects, regional trade and economic cooperation projects. in other words, it should give priority to structural and economic reforms leading to functioning market economies and sustainable development. the pace of integration into the european union will obviously depend on the countries themselves. however, i would like to stress that the stabilisation and association process is the institutional framework for the european path of the western balkans and marks the shift of the centre of gravity from stabilisation to association with the european union.
madam president, i should like to begin by congratulating mr lagendijk on his well-informed report. it is a balanced and comprehensive work, covering the subject objectively and giving a complete picture of the situation in the region and in the individual countries. it also highlights the particular circumstances of each of them and assesses the specific facts underlying their various forms of cooperation with the european union. in this context, the report rightly emphasizes, in my view, the importance of preparing the countries of south-eastern europe for their future integration into european structures as one of the priorities of the european union. it stressed that each country's progress towards accession would depend on whether it met the copenhagen criteria and the conditions of the stabilisation and association process. indeed, whatever the expected specificities of the countries concerned, it must remain a basic principle that all are treated and judged in the same way when weighing their qualifications and shortcomings in terms of their ability to integrate fully into the european family. i would also like to agree with the rapporteur that the hot potato in the region is the kosovo regime, but i believe that any hasty decision and action should be avoided, so that the necessary conditions for normalising the situation can be ensured beforehand, with respect for the rights of all the parties concerned, as well as the relevant un resolutions and the principle of safeguarding the external borders of the countries in the region. the european parliament has expressed its regret at the manifestly unacceptable conduct of the recent municipal elections in albania. unfortunately, the sad aberrations and the flagrant violation of democratic procedures and values which led to the rapporteur's clear identification, with the agreement of my political group and of my colleague mrs pack, were repeated, and even more intensively, by a series of incidents, acts of violence and misrepresentations of the democratic will of citizens and candidates, in the re-election just three days ago. i hope that the albanian authorities will take up the message that parliament is sending them through the lagendijk report and will strengthen their commitment to ensuring the smooth functioning of democracy and the rule of law in their country, so as not to negatively affect albania's relations with the european union and the successful conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement.
madam president, in discussing the lagendijk report we can certainly see that the situation in the western balkans, in the countries of the stability pact, is much better today than it was a year ago. it is a major step towards the success of the policy being implemented in the region by the european union, which in fact has the main responsibility for the region. the european union has already submitted an application for croatia to join the european union. the new constitutional institutions in fyrom, as well as the new form of serbia and montenegro, seem to be beginning to function. there are also signs of economic mobility. but the situation is far from stable on all sides. none of us should have any illusions. the stability pact is being implemented in a region which remains politically fragile and unstable. the only axis of our policy must be the interest of the citizens and peoples of the region. any special interest or interest must be put out of our minds. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i would like to point out with regret, but also with seriousness, the unacceptable conditions in himara and elsewhere in albania during the recent municipal elections, where every concept of electoral procedure was violated by the official authorities, as well as respect for the rights of the greek minority. the albanian authorities should help their country upgrade its democratic institutions if it is to move forward positively in the 21st century. there are those who, in their perplexity, are looking to the future of crisis areas such as kosovo and others, implying either the creation of a new state entity or broad autonomy that would effectively be equivalent to independence. they must realise that the constitutional and state regime, whether of fyrom, bosnia-herzegovina or serbia-montenegro, is based on delicate balances, with hidden nationalisms, and that it takes time for the new institutions to stabilise and mature. the belgrade-pristina contact within the un framework is positive and must be supported. but every new frivolous move will lead to a new domino explosion with unforeseen consequences. in all the stability pact countries there are compact national minorities, which are locally in the majority, and they even border other countries where the respective national groups are in the majority. all states have a duty to protect their minorities. they are their own citizens. all state borders must remain firm. it is necessary to be careful that theoretical thinking does not lead to concepts of the city-state type, which may even lead to the state-neighbourhood and the state-family. we must prevent the deployment of forces from neighbouring countries to protect national minorities if they are not adequately protected by the countries of which they are citizens. our obsession must be 'peace, democracy, security, cooperation, stability' and the constant message to all countries is that the european union awaits them, as long as they accelerate their efforts. and now, madam president, a remark out of order. there's a technical issue. the official name of fyrom is not correctly stated on some pages. it's good to correct the texts, as is usually done.
commission. mr president, since this is a joint debate, the bad news is that i shall have to speak at some length, but the good news is i will be as quick as i possibly can whilst not avoiding responding to the detailed issues that have been raised by honourable members in their activities, which i know reflect the hard and intensive work they have been doing. as this house knows, the three european institutions worked together to secure a new financial regulation in 2002 that will come into effect on 1 january 2003. the regulation provides inter alia a clear framework for subsidies through which we support a large number of european organisations in the dialogue with european citizens, and it also stipulates that each financial decision should have a legal basis to ensure its justification. that requirement is particularly relevant for those subsidies which have been financed from lines whose position in the budgetary structure the so-called a-part of the budget meant that they could be assimilated into administrative expenditure and consequently be incurred without a clear legal basis. the modification of the budgetary structure introduced in the new financial regulation has brought to an end this assimilation of administrative expenditure, meaning that a legal basis for the subsidies in question is now required. it is this new obligation which led the commission in may 2003 to present seven proposals for new legal bases. these were accompanied by a communication from mrs schreyer, which underlined the common context and presented identical solutions for common problems. the commission welcomes this report by mr sacrédeus and appreciates the priority which the drafters and parliament have given to dealing with the commission’s proposal. with parliament’s opinion it should now be possible to have the decision in force in 2004 and following a call for proposals, to go ahead with the selection of beneficiaries for operating grants for next year. the goal agreed between parliament and council during the conciliation of 16 july was the entry into force, by 2004, of the legal bases for grants which did not have that coverage. the legal base presented today, together with the six other proposals covering grants, is important because it is a direct consequence of the innovations concerning grants in the new financial regulation and is firmly anchored in the basic principles of transparency and equal treatment for potential beneficiaries. most of the amendments proposed in parliament's resolution are acceptable to the commission and in keeping with the spirit of the commission’s proposal. however, the commission thinks it appropriate to limit the amount of the grant to 70% of the eligible costs and not 80%. similarly, the commission is of the view that a digressivity rate of 10% per year is preferable to 2.5%. our view is that both of these requirements are safeguards which will go some way to ensuring sustainability and encouraging beneficiaries to be active in seeking alternative and complementary revenue streams. one point which should be mentioned is the need to ensure coherence between the proposed council decision and the budget. in the preliminary draft budget the commission proposed one budget line to regroup amounts which, in the 2003 budget, are distributed over four lines in chapter a 30. the future legal base for this single line, as required by the new financial regulation, is the proposed decision which is before the house today. this decision provides for the selection of beneficiaries following a call for proposals in accordance with the principles of transparency and equal treatment. at first reading, parliament replaced the single line with five lines. the title of each line is the name of an institute. there is a clear incompatibility between the future legal base and the division of the budget line in this manner. the commission hopes that the adopted budget will correspond to the pdb proposal, so permitting us to execute the proposal and appropriations in full compliance with european law as defined by the new financial regulation adopted by this house and the council. i now turn to the report by mrs rühle on the proposal for an action programme to promote civic participation. i am grateful to mrs rühle for having acknowledged the urgency of this matter and for having ensured speedy adoption by the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs. this has been immensely helpful. the commission's proposal before the house seeks to ensure harmonious transition from the old system to the new arrangements and continuity in the activities being supported. we have endeavoured to produce a text which, to a large extent, extends the 2003 implementation procedures while incorporating the requirements of the new financial regulation in terms of sound financial management of public funds. this proposal for a legal basis should therefore be considered a technical adjustment. there is, nevertheless, a great and understandable temptation to grasp the opportunity to add innovations and suggest improvements. parliament, as ever, is immensely helpful with this creativity. this may, however, be risky particularly if such additions compromise the subsequent adoption of the proposal by the council. the commission's proposal has therefore been formulated in what we consider to be a measured way, with the essential objective of continuing what has already been accomplished and by providing a legal structure which is consistent with the new financial regulation. i would consequently invite honourable members not to distance themselves too much from the commission's proposals and to do their utmost to ensure that this legal basis is adopted as quickly as possible. furthermore, in the case of the legal basis for active civic participation, the margin for manoeuvre is even more limited because unanimity is required in council. all avenues for compromise must be explored if we are to succeed in completing this procedure as speedily as possible. in fact, as from 1 january 2004, in the absence of this legal basis, it would quite simply not be possible for us to provide financial support to all the organisations which participate actively in the promotion of european citizenship. we would greatly regret that, and doubtless parliament would too. i shall now outline the position of the commission on the amendments contained in mrs rühle's report. the commission can accept in full amendments 1, 4, 7, 9, 11, 12, 15, 16, 13 and 31, which provide useful clarifications to the text. while recalling the need to apply the new financial regulation, the commission sees no objection to amendment 45 on the simplification of administrative procedures. it goes without saying that the commission will impose an obligation on those who have received a european subsidy to provide adequate publicity. while entirely agreeing with parliament on this point, as outlined in amendment 48, we feel that it would be more appropriate to list this obligation in the conventions to be signed with the beneficiaries. the same holds true for amendment 49 on the dissemination and availability of results. the commission agrees with amendment 47, which underlines the need for regular exchanges of views with the beneficiaries. the commission can partly accept amendment 25. since the amendment does not alter the substance of the commission proposal, we can accept the proposal to specify that the budgetary appropriations scheduled after 2006 are subject to an agreement of the budgetary authority on the financial perspective beyond 2006. however, the commission is willing to accept the same duration for all seven proposals in the package until 2006 if that helps to find a compromise for all the proposals with a view to having them adopted in time for implementing the budget in 2004. as this proposal has to be seen in conjunction with the other proposals in the package, the amendments on 'earmarking' and the possibility of an executive agency also have to be settled in the broader context. the commission cannot accept, in the same amendment, a reference to the total amount allocated to the programme since this is not consistent with the legislative procedures provided for in the consultation procedure. the commission can also partially accept amendment 28. we have no objections to sending reports on implementation of the programme, but we cannot accept transferring the content of the annex to article 8a, which would not be in line with the usual format of legal texts. the same applies to amendments 20, 21, 22, 29 and 30, which the commission rejects. the commission understands the view of parliament on the matter of focusing on potential enlargement of the scope and objectives of this proposal. however, it is our intention to guarantee the continuity of the activities already supported by the commission in the past, so we have to refuse amendments 14, 40, 41, 42 and 43, with a view to reaching a unanimous position on our proposal in the council. amendments 6 and 33, concerning the european movement, are rejected as well as amendments 32, 34, 35, 36 and 37, which add new organisations to the list of beneficiaries. with a view to ensuring the continuity of funding currently allocated, the commission does not consider it appropriate to open a discussion on the list of organisations contained in part 1. in accordance with the financial regulation, we intend to launch a call for proposals which will be open to all organisations active in this area. however, to facilitate the transition from the system of 'earmarking' to the system of calls for proposals, and taking into account the time left before the programme enters into force, we consider it more appropriate to apply the model of earmarking for 2004, and to publish an open call for proposals as from 2005. this would be a reasonable compromise since it would be technically impossible, under the procedures laid down in the financial regulation, to launch a call for proposals after the adoption of this legal base which would still allow for financing as from the beginning of 2004. as a consequence, the commission can, in principal, accept the application of a system of 'earmarking'. we consider, however, that this approach should be restricted to 2004 and the operating rules should be laid down in the annex rather than in the text of the programme. therefore, for technical reasons, the commission cannot accept that part of amendment 23 relating to group 1. the part of the amendment relating to group 2 and aiming at the incorporation of organisations having a different perspective of the policies of the union is considered quite superfluous, and therefore cannot be accepted. the last part of the amendment is not in line with the usual format of legal texts and is also rejected. on the possible involvement of an executive agency for the management of part of the programme, particularly in relation to management of the large number of projects in the town-twinning part of the programme, the commission emphasises that such an approach conforms to article 55 of the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the european communities. in fact, the commission envisages the setting-up of such an executive agency in the area of education and culture. subject to the conclusions of a cost-benefit study currently under preparation by an external consultant, the commission could propose that such an agency should be partly involved in the management of this programme. before reaching a final decision, the commission will submit this proposal to the executive agency committee of the council. the commission is therefore not in a position at this juncture to accept amendment 46. the commission rejects amendments 2, 8, 10, 17, 19, 24 and 50, which are considered superfluous because the issues are already sufficiently detailed in the existing text or covered by other texts. the reference to full employment in amendment 3 is rejected because it is deemed to be over-ambitious. amendment 5 which refers to the draft constitution is premature since it may still be modified. we consider that the proposal to carry out regular evaluations of the organisations listed in part 1 referred to in amendment 38 would be far too cumbersome to enact since these organisations are listed as recipients for the whole duration of the programme. a modification of the list would therefore require a new council decision. amendment 39 is unacceptable because it goes against the very essence of the action programme which aims to foster european networks. amendment 40 concerning the media is also rejected because it may jeopardise applications from grass-roots organisations the commission rejects amendment 44 which represents unacceptable interference with the commission's implementation powers. the information of national parliaments, as suggested in amendment 27, is not appropriate and the commission considers that any evaluation of the programme should be based on a two-year reference period and therefore rejects amendment 26. amendment 51, which was tabled after the adoption of mrs rühle’s report in committee, is unacceptable to the commission since it cannot guarantee the implementation of programmes before the legal basis is adopted. in conclusion, on this particular response, of the 51 amendments tabled by parliament, the commission accepts 14 in full, partially accepts 2 and rejects 35. i invite the house to do everything possible to ensure that the support provided by the european union to the creation of a european citizenship is not derailed. if the system is to be put back on track at the beginning of 2004, an agreement at this stage in the procedure will be decisive as i know honourable members fully understand. i am grateful for the attention of the house. i have one short set of further points to make before i conclude. this relates to the decision of parliament and council establishing a community programme to promote organisations active at eu level in the field of equality between women and men. first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou, and the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities for their work and achievements on this dossier, which have been considerable in all respects. i am pleased that progress has already been made in council and in parliament on this basic act which is designed to provide a legal base for continuing funding support for organisations active at eu level in promoting gender equality. i welcome most of the 20 amendments in mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou's report adopted on 3 november 2003 by the committee on women's rights, because they add precision and clarity to this basic act. however, the commission is not in favour of some amendments relating to aspects of the duration of the programme and its evaluation. the commission proposed a duration of two years 2004 and 2005 because it will include this topic in the overall reflections on the future of the equality strategy after 2005. the commission cannot, therefore, agree with the extension of the duration of the programme until 2008 as proposed in amendment 8. as a consequence, the commission does not accept amendments 6 and 7 on degressivity, amendment 9 on increase in the financial framework, or amendment 10 on budgetary authority agreement post-2006. as far as the evaluation of the programme by the commission is concerned, the financial regulation provides the solid framework that is necessary. amendment 11, which suggests that this evaluation should be based on an external report, is therefore unnecessary and seems disproportionate to the small amounts involved in this programme and its duration. the commission cannot accept amendment 19 because it considers it better to keep the themes general rather than specific. finally, the commission cannot accept amendment 20 because it would impinge on the commission's role in executing the programme. the adoption of this basic act in a short timeframe is very important in order not to disrupt the community's financial support for those organisations, and notably the european women's lobby. to sum up, the commission can accept amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 and it rejects amendments 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 19 and 20 for the reasons i have given. i am grateful to the house for the patience extended to me in making a rather long contribution.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to welcome the commission's proposal to establish this programme, i would like to say that the commission is very pleased with the work done by the committee on women's rights, and i would like to say that it is also pleased with our right, because our political group has started to try to give funding through the budget to a variety of european women's organizations. the aim of this programme must therefore be to enable the european women's lobby to continue its work and at the same time to enable other women's organisations to operate and develop integrated activities in the general context of equality between men and women. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. it should also be borne in mind that specific specific actions, as proposed in the commission's draft, can be financed by other programmes or under community policies with annual priority themes - equal pay, work-life balance, participation in decision-making, changing stereotypes - and every year there is this possibility for women's organisations. as regards the period of application of the programme, i share your view, commissioner, that it should be valid until 2006, precisely because we cannot foresee the needs now, especially after the entry of the new countries. after all, it's a pilot program and we'll have to see how it goes. after the evaluation, we can continue to expand it. as regards the implementation of the gradual reduction of 2.5% after three years of implementation of the programme, i cannot really understand the logic of the rapporteurs of this amendment. the european commission expressly excludes, under the provisions of the financial regulation, all women's organizations participating in this programme from such a gradual reduction. why should we apply it specifically to women's organisations other than the european women's lobby? the european women's lobby has other advantages in terms of funding. it is a discrimination against organizations which does not exist under the regulation. the proposal adopted by the committee on women's rights to diversify the proportion of funding for women's organizations is, in our view, a form of discrimination. it is not possible to ask for 90% co-financing for an organisation such as the lobby, which has a privileged status, as i have said, i.e. operational funding without invitations to tender, and to ask for 80% from other organisations which do not have permanent funding and are selected following a call for tenders. as regards our amendments relating to the transfer of the european women's lobby from the articles to the annex, this is done for technical reasons on a proposal from the council, precisely because we believe that we should try to have a uniform format for all community programmes financing the work of ngos. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we have tried, commissioner, with our amendments not to depart from community standards, precisely in order to speed up the immediate implementation of the programme, but a programme which does not restrict the activities of women's organisations to specific areas, to specific groups, nor does it direct them towards specific philosophies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the role of women in society is changing, and their aspirations are constantly being enriched and broadened. it is up to us to prove that we are capable of managing this diversity and to give our society and, above all, women's work the opportunity to express its pluralism.
i would like to point out, mr president, that my political group voted in the majority of its members to abstain and to reject the report because the final result was not what we wanted as a development of the effort to have a community action programme for women's organizations in the field of equality. the proposal that has come from the house is not what we want. we want to have parity and equity through women's organizations. we recognize that the role and work of the european women's lobby must be safeguarded, but at the same time other organisations must be given the opportunity to have a viable programme of action. this is not what parliament's proposal says, but rather that there should be a distinction between organisations and that organisations which do not belong to the european women's lobby should be treated as 'secondary'. that is not our proposal and that is why we did not accept the final result. we see this programme as an opportunity to show that we believe in the plurality and diversity of aspirations and concerns of women's organisations and to give them the opportunity, on an equal and non-discriminatory basis, to express this richness. we believe that this is a fundamental foundation of our democracy and our political group will continue to work towards this.
in writing. - the issue here is the relaunch of the euro-mediterranean partnership. the peoples living around the mediterranean have not needed a vote from the european parliament to build relations with each other since time immemorial. for thousands of years, the mediterranean has not been a barrier but a link between peoples. but it is significant that in this 21st century, when the material possibilities exist for humanity to form one united and fraternal community, society is going backwards. while modern transport means have made the mediterranean virtually a barrier, legal and physical barriers have been erected around it. the citizens of the southern mediterranean, of morocco ruled by "our friend the king", of algeria ruled by the dual dictatorship of the military and the islamic fundamentalists, and of tunisia, which only french diplomacy considers democratic, find it increasingly difficult even to come to france, even though there are many links between these peoples of the southern and northern mediterranean. so, to be able to speak of a "euro-mediterranean partnership", the least we could do is to allow those from the maghreb who live in france to live there with dignity, as human beings of the 21st century, with or without papers. they should be granted full civil rights, including the right to vote and freedom of movement within the european union. instead of opening up the borders between the countries of europe a little bit, only to close them even more to the outside, europe must be an open europe that shares its resources with the peoples of those countries that it has so long plundered, colonized and exploited.
in writing. - (pt) after the next enlargement, the future member states of the european union will come into contact with countries which are not linked to the union by an institutional link of community scope, although they share with the eu various strategies and partnerships. the stability and security of the whole european continent depends on the development of better relations between all the states which make up the continent: between the european union and its new neighbours on the one hand, and between the latter on the other. a mutual good neighbour policy is therefore not only desirable but also indispensable. as no further enlargements are planned in the near future, despite the high expectations of many of the new neighbouring countries, and as enlargement is a politically autonomous process, the aim must be to create an inclusive strategy for relations with the neighbouring states of the enlarged union. this strategy does not have a proper framework, and so it is this framework that we are dealing with. as the rapporteur has explained, the aim is to go beyond the logic of bilateral relations between the european union and each of the countries in question, by encouraging relations with all of them and at the same time encouraging them all to develop balanced and mutually beneficial relations with each other. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. - (pt) i support the report by my compatriot and friend luís queiró, because i agree with the need to adopt measures to create favourable conditions for the development of a competitive and viable european defence equipment industry. there can and must be savings in resources and surpluses in the field of defence, in the context of cooperation involving links of 'industrial and technological interdependence' which contribute to a better use of investment in the field of defence and to the avoidance of duplication of effort. it is not reasonable to maintain a situation in which all the member states of the european union spend the equivalent of 50% of the defence budget of the united states in order to obtain only 10% of the military capacity of this country, which is our ally. the lack of resources mobilised by all eu countries is not desirable for europe or for our nato allies. in addition, it is also worth recalling that the eu will have increased responsibilities in the esdp in terms of civil and military crisis management.
in writing. - (pt) on 16 june 2003, the thessaloniki european council adopted the western balkans agenda and, a few days later, the heads of state or government of the eu, the future member states and the stabilisation and association process (sap) countries issued a joint statement on the prospects for the sap and the accession of these countries to the european union. this report takes account of the positions expressed in these initiatives, and its main component is the prospect of future accession of the countries of south-east europe. it also aims to provide clear guidance to the countries participating in the stabilisation and association process on how best to address the specific challenges facing each of these countries in their efforts to move closer to the european union and in the context of the ongoing negotiations with the european institutions. at a time when these states are being presented with certain criteria and standards are being set, it would not be superfluous to recommend the same humility and critical thinking to the present member states in relation to the issues they raise, in particular as regards the protection of human life and the application of active policies against corruption, organised crime and trafficking in human beings, arms and drugs. the proposed stabilisation and association process could be an ambitious accession strategy. that is why i voted in favour of it.
mr president, the workers, the peoples of our countries, do not expect the council summit to speak to them about the reality they are experiencing every day as a result of the policies of the centre-right or centre-left governments of the european union. they are experiencing firsthand the rise in unemployment, the reduction in their income, the circumvention and even the abolition of the eight-hour day and their other achievements as a result of the infamous lisbon agenda, the implementation of which the council will assess. they know that all this is being done in the name of competitiveness and productivity and is aimed solely at increasing the profits of the european union's large capital. this objective is also pursued more generally by continuing to reduce labour costs, even where we have increased growth rates, such as in greece, where workers are the most productive and the worst paid in the european union. the summit of the council is aimed exclusively at safeguarding and increasing the profits and power of european union capital, as are all the other issues it will discuss, such as the intergovernmental and euro-constitution, which institutionalizes capitalism and further militarization and authoritarianism of the european union, the strengthening of repressive anti-worker mechanisms, the negative enlargement for the peoples with the new ten countries, the policy of migration and asylum. the continuing occupation of iraq, which continues to cause casualties to the iraqi people, but also to the occupiers and their collaborators, is only increasing profits because of the justified resistance of the iraqi people. the european council in brussels will not only not change these political guidelines, but will take steps to strengthen and enshrine them in law. the only way to change this situation, in my view, is to develop the resistance and the counter-attack of the peoples, which is fortunately constantly growing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
- mr president, the president-in-office of the council has said that the european union will not fail to welcome legal immigrants. this seems hypocritical, given that the council has adopted a very restrictive text on family reunification rights. it is indeed petty that the committee on legal affairs and the internal market advises the european parliament to seek the annulment of this text before the european court of justice on the grounds that it violates the provisions of the european convention on human rights relating to family law. i'm glad to hear it. the council is no longer in doubt about the deep emotions of this house regarding the internment without fair trial of the prisoners at guantanamo bay. as co-rapporteur on this subject, i help the parliament prepare conclusions for the supreme court, but only the council can make formal protests on behalf of the eu as a whole. it has already signed a legal cooperation agreement with the united states, so that the americans cannot challenge the council's legal status. it would be scandalous if governments, such as the british government, were to obstruct a council initiative by concluding bilateral agreements. even if we get the europeans back from guantanamo bay, we have to defend the remaining 650 prisoners. as we have shown with the steel tariffs, if the eu is assertive, the us listens.
mr president, i hope that the outcome of the intergovernmental conference will not satisfy us any less than the outcome of the constituent assembly. i would like to make two or three very brief remarks on this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am pleased with the progress that has been made. i would like to see it more substantial, particularly as regards the single payment clause, but in any case it is good to show that we have learned from the iraq war. secondly, all the member states should be represented in the commission. in greece in particular, it would have made a very negative impression if the smaller countries were not represented. thirdly, we had better not have an agreement in december if that agreement is not going to be satisfactory. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr prodi, there is the development initiative, which includes the quik start programme for transeuropean priority networks, which will be discussed. it has been suggested that parliament is being bypassed and that the decision will be taken solely by the european council, on a proposal from the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are co-legislators on transeuropean networks and we will defend our rights to the end. beyond that, there is the matter of substance. we can draw green and red lines on the map and say, "here are new roads and railways! but transeuropean networks must be financed. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, and the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities.
- (sv) mr president, when the convention was created, it was a unique historic decision based on the idea that - in a great dialogue with the citizens - elected representatives, governments and european institutions should, in an open and thoughtful way, prepare the eu for enlargement and the future. despite the many sceptics, the convention proved to be a great success. a proposal for a european constitution has been put forward and, although it has some shortcomings, it is generally a very good compromise. i think altiero spinelli must have smiled in his grave when the proposal was tabled in june 2003. what's happening now is embarrassing. it seems that the convention never took place and that the council is back to the old nice routine with all the noise and speculation behind closed doors. don't you ever learn a lesson? the eu has enormous tasks ahead of it. it must grow, organise its reform and engage in deeper cooperation. it also has serious legitimacy problems. the hype surrounding the stability and growth pact has not improved the eu's reputation. citizens deserve better than a cheap compromise seasoned with national interests. they deserve a democratic, dynamic and energetic eu. they deserve to be taken seriously by respecting the work done by their representatives in the convention. that is why i would like to appeal to the italian presidency not to disappoint them.
i suggest. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we have used up the time we were given and so, in order not to take up any more space in the next debate, i shall try to be very brief. first of all, in view of the presence of mr watson and others who have wanted to introduce the element of debate on the guantanamo issue, i would like to offer some reflection. i must say that as far as the italian presidency, and therefore the european union, is concerned, we have made clear to the american authorities on every possible occasion - the last time directly to colin powell at the meeting in brussels - the concerns of the european union and of public opinion about what is undoubtedly an episode that causes us to reflect and worries us. i should also like to remind you that at the joint press conference some journalists also put the question to colin powell, who publicly undertook to give answers and to make analyses, to give answers as to what exactly the requests were. so i have to reaffirm the attention that has been paid and, undoubtedly, the commitment that will be made in the future. as regards the speech on the work of the intergovernmental conference, i take this opportunity, which will be my last as a representative of the presidency of the european union, to meet with parliament to thank parliament, to thank all of you for the contribution you have made to the work and commitment of the italian presidency, a fundamental contribution, undoubtedly rich in criticism, in suggestions, but also, i admit, in some appreciations which are always very pleasing and which help to alleviate the suffering of commitment that we must sometimes face. as i said, we do so in the knowledge that if the result is positive, it will be positive not only for the italian presidency but also for all of us, because the spirit that guides us is a spirit that is in keeping with the european spirit. if we fail to do so, it will undoubtedly be a failure for all of us. i am still optimistic and i must say that, in the light of the debate in naples and today's meeting, i believe that we can look to 12 and 13 december with the confidence that there are elements to foresee a positive solution. as regards the substance of the individual questions, it is difficult for me to go into detail at this stage, but i would like to recall a few general points: i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the problems which have arisen in the past, and that it is not the commission's intention to make any further progress in this area. as you know, the convention was attended by all: national parliamentarians, members of the european parliament, members of the government, representatives of civil society. it was obviously important work which we are trying to improve but which, as far as we are concerned, is the reference and the guiding point for achieving the final result. we will not accept any downward compromise and we will avoid the possibility of market discussions, as they have been defined in the last hour. it is natural that there will be negotiations. i do not want to belittle a negotiation because the interests that each country represents are undoubtedly noble and important. the negotiations may be closed, but i believe that the spirit which guides us and which i have recognized in all those who have participated in the work of the convention before and of the intergovernmental conference afterwards, makes us understand that everyone aspires to an important result, a noble result. the italian presidency also considers that this is a fundamental element in safeguarding the prerogatives of the european parliament and of national parliaments in general. it is even more so when we are building a treaty which has constitutional validity, because if there is no link with the primary democratic source which is linked to parliament, we would undoubtedly be doing something which is not positive. i am grateful to you again for your contribution, and i hope that president berlusconi, who will be present with minister frattini to report on the work of the intergovernmental conference the week after the end of the conference, will be able to bring you positive news and that you will then be able to either appreciate or criticize it, and then, as some of you hoped, to find yourselves under the tree celebrating an outcome which we all hope will be very positive. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. i thank the italian presidency and president antonioni, who, in my opinion, has presented in a completely balanced and acceptable way the arguments and positions we must take to the great meeting in brussels. i would merely wish him well in defending these arguments, and i would also ask him not to dismiss some of the problems that have been put aside at this moment, and i refer, for example, to the problem of the legislative council. this is one of the aspects which we have seen disappear immediately, whereas so much energy and intelligence had been invested in this in the institutional building. the problem is that when one piece of this construction is altered, the whole structure suffers. i shall reply briefly to mr de rossa. i don't usually retract my statements, because i usually think long and hard before i make them. i told the irish times reporter who had a great deal of fun cutting these statements that if a country says 'no, no, no, no' - and i said 'no' four times - it must be recognised that it is not right that it should be able to paralyse the union forever. it seems to me that this is a position that everyone can share. i added that the instruments are not available today, but that the problem cannot be avoided in the future. it's no use hiding it from us. i said there are no tools, but the problem exists. the problem, i added, is not new, but it is a question that cannot be avoided. i think it is important for the president of the commission to raise these points - even if they are not a problem today - because they are a problem that concerns us all. it's useless to keep running away from problems, because if we run away from them, we'll never solve them. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. - the day after the igc meeting in naples, there was a marked increase in pressure from the european institutions to impose the convention's constitutional project, and thus a central and supranational power to manage the enlarged europe. in our opinion, the correct solution would be the opposite: to accept the idea of a differentiated europe, to respect national sovereignty more and to organize the variable geometry clearly. in other words, countries such as spain and poland, which are now accused of delaying the progress of the igc under the convention, by defending their national interests, are in fact defending the general interest of europe, which is to keep nations free and national democracies alive. on the two main points of discussion which will be discussed again at the next brussels council - the composition of the commission and the qualified majority in the council - we recall our proposal of old: the main thing is to recognize a national right of popular opposition, which each people could exercise in solemn forms against a european decision. this innovation, which would rehabilitate national democracies and help to close the democratic deficit, would at the same time make all discussions about the commission and the council relative.
the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for inviting me to discuss the economic stability and growth pact with you during this sitting. let me begin by recounting the events leading up to the eurogroup and ecofin meeting on 24 and 25 november. in the first half of 2003, on a proposal from the commission, the council sent two recommendations on excessive deficits to germany and france, on 21 january and 3 june respectively, calling for these deficits to be brought below the 3% reference value by the end of 2004. it should be noted that these recommendations were adopted on the basis of a gradual economic growth assumed during the year following the disappearance of the negative factors due to the end of the war in iraq. however, in the months that followed it became clear that the real growth of the european economy was different, i.e. more negative than expected. economic growth, which was about one percentage point below expectations, led to a larger than expected increase in government deficits. as a result, germany and france were unable to bring their deficits below the 3% mark in 2004 as originally required. in the second half of 2003, between october and november, the commission fully and formally recognised this new situation and therefore proposed two new recommendations to postpone the reduction of the deficit below 3% to 2005. in essence, it is reasonable to assume that if it had been known from the beginning of 2003 that the euro area economy would not grow positively, the recommendations would have set 2005 as the deadline for the alignment of deficits with the norm from the outset. on this basis, germany and france have both adopted measures to incorporate the substance of the recommendations. in germany, the recommendations were incorporated directly into budgetary legislation: a structural adjustment of 0.6% of gdp was planned for 2004 and a 0.5% adjustment was planned for 2005, which amounts to 1.1% of gdp in total, close to the percentage originally required by the commission, without prejudice to the reduction below 3% in 2005. in france, the recommendations were first incorporated into budget legislation and then through other measures: an adjustment of 0.8% of gdp was planned for 2004 and an adjustment of 0.6% was planned for 2005, which amounts to 1.4% of gdp in total, close to the percentage required by the commission, without prejudice to the reduction below 3% in 2005. in addition, france and germany committed themselves to using the possible effects of higher growth to reduce their deficits, as requested by the commission. in addition, it should be borne in mind that in 2003, france and germany launched a major social security reform programme which had a decisive positive impact on the sustainability of public finances. in the context of political economy, this is a major issue surrounding the discussion on the pact which took place during the year. in the main, first in the framework of the work carried out in october and november, then in the eurogroup and finally in ecofin, a broad consensus was reached on the substance of the recommendations made by the commission and on the substance of the adjustments introduced by france and germany. now we come to the procedural questions. the commission proposed the two recommendations in accordance with article 104 (9) on the basis that germany and france continued to fail to act on the council's recommendations. germany and france, while accepting the substance of the recommendations, requested that they be given a different form for political reasons, namely the reformulation of a second set of recommendations in accordance with article 104 (7). the council's legal service, consulted on the matter, said that the commission could also have taken - and i stress the word 'also' - this second route. the commission has excluded this possibility. at this point, the situation was deadlocked: the essential, i.e. the substance, was in danger of being lost for formal reasons. in order to break the deadlock without exacerbating the situation, the eurogroup, on the basis of a broad consensus, incorporated the substance of the recommendations into a draft conclusions. the validity of this procedure has been confirmed once again by the council's legal service. secondly, when ecofin started its work, the commission explicitly expressed its disagreement, requesting a formal vote on the second set of recommendations for germany and france. the required majority was not obtained. it should be stressed that the ecofin council's vote on the commission's recommendations is expressly provided for in the rules currently in force and is therefore fully compatible with them. following the rejection of the commission's recommendations, the council took a position on the conclusions drawn up earlier in the eurogroup. these conclusions were approved and the discussion led to the adoption of the council declaration unanimously. the content of this declaration can be summed up as follows: stability and growth are the fundamental objectives of european economic policy. the pact is an essential means of implementing this policy. the pact was called "stupid". we have proved the contrary, we have shown that the pact can be interpreted in a flexible and discerning way. the pact can be implemented by adjusting budgetary discipline even more rationally to positive or negative economic cycles and by encouraging structural reforms to develop growth potential. in these circumstances, the letter and the spirit of the covenant have not died; on the contrary, we have worked, we are working and we will continue to work within the framework of the pact and with the support of the commission in a cooperative and consensual manner. in conclusion, we have so far spoken a lot about procedure, but hardly about economics. in the growth strategy, as has been said, it is necessary that the pact takes account of economic cycles and structural reforms: this is necessary, but it is not enough. six months ago, at the beginning of this presidency, we presented an action plan for growth to this house. parliament's support for this plan has been decisive. the plan must now be implemented. new development initiatives must follow. the commission, governments and markets have a role to play in the growth strategy, but so does the european parliament, which must provide the necessary impetus: economic policy is policy or it is not.
mr president, most of what i had in mind has already been said and i would like to endorse the speech of mr poettering, who has unfortunately left. i would like to focus our attention on this: the rules that we freely accept and sign, big and small, strong and weak, must be respected by all, whether we like it or not. the european union's principles and regulations are considered to be applied à la carte, and if they are in our interest we respect them, if they displease us we ignore them. the most fundamental principle of democracy is respect for the law by all. if they don't satisfy us, we change them. if it does not satisfy the stability pact, it should be abolished or amended. but in no case can it be considered as valid but not observed by those who do not like it, as has happened now. when the terms of the pact were breached by small eu member states such as portugal, they were forced to implement tough measures and spending cuts to bring their deficit below 3%, and none of the major current breachers asked for the pact not to be applied. now that the problem has hit their economy unexpectedly, they have discovered that the pact is unsuitable to the point of unacceptability. two meters and two scales. the reaction of the small countries is therefore understandable, seeing that 'some are more equal than others', as george orwell said. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and has called for the immediate release of all political prisoners.
madam president, 'sticks and carrots' quoth mr watson: there were plenty of sticks and carrots in the stability pact - sticks for the workers and carrots for the managers, sticks for the unemployed and carrots for the financiers. not only was the stability pact socially unfair, it was totally unworkable, and the tragedy about breaking it is not that we did not wish it to be respected, it is that it was ever set up. that was the real tragedy. if we had stuck to the maastricht criteria with the same severity that the stability pact asks us to stick to the three per cent, would there be a euro today? would there be a euro, commissioner? i ask everybody here to put their hand on their heart and answer that question honestly, like honest people who want rules to be respected. the second point about this is that the commission tells us that it will continue applying the pact. if the same case happens again, how will the pact be applied? i hope with the same latitude that was shown to france and germany. it would be unfair for a different standard to be applied to a small country in the future. it has also been suggested that the deficits of today are the taxes of tomorrow. how very simple! the deficits of today can also be the investment of today, which will produce the higher income of tomorrow, from which higher taxes can easily be paid. so i suggest we stop making virtuous speeches here and go and enrol in a good course of elementary macroeconomics, which some of us here seem to need - of course, i am not including the minister in this comment. he seems to know about it - or has learned about it - and i am grateful to him for that. the substance of the matter is that today we need expansionary, rather than contractionary, economic policy. just as there is inflationary stability, there can also be deflationary stability. from that point of view the demise of the stability pact is good for stability.
madam president, the proposed arrangements for the insurance card may remove some bureaucratic procedures, but in practice all their advantages are cancelled out by the policy of reducing social expenditure and benefits in accordance with the maastricht criteria, under the pretext of excessive budget deficits, and by the policy of commercialising health systems. these adjustments will help to speed up the implementation of the european union's policy of capitalist restructuring in the member states, under the pretext of harmonizing health systems, i.e. the downward equalization of social benefits, the abolition of the public sector and the privatization and commercialisation of health and social security systems, the reduction of pensions, the increase in workers' contributions to insurance funds. all of this is a raid on the workers. what good is the card when access to the public health system is becoming increasingly problematic and the privilege of the right to care is left to those who can afford to pay, since even public hospitals operate on a business basis? the social security funds are in deficit because the state draws resources from social security funds to finance the money markets and gives gifts to employers through reductions in employer contributions. the proposed measures are likely to make the financial situation of the insurance funds more difficult. when social security is privatised, what kind of insurance will the 20% of the european union's population below the poverty line and the 8.8% of the unemployed have, according to a recent eurostat study? so the workers have nothing to look forward to from the much-publicized health insurance card. instead, they face greater insecurity, poverty and increased payments for prevention, health protection and care. we are confident that their struggle will overturn these policies. we, as the communist party of greece, stand with them.
mr president, the members of the communist party of greece have followed your proposal for a minute's silence in memory of the seven spaniards who lost their lives in iraq. we are deeply saddened by the needless loss of life, even if it is of secret agents with an unspecified mission, and we warmly commend their families. but we cannot help but note that the spanish government which sent them there bears sole responsibility for their deaths. much more, we grieve for the tens of thousands of iraqis who have found death at the hands of foreign invaders and conquerors of their homeland and we strongly condemn the fact that you made no reference to them, as if they were inferior human beings. we hope that sanity will prevail and that the foreign invaders will leave iraq before the iraqi people's resistance causes them to flee in disorder.
in writing. - (el) the intergovernmental conference in naples had no problem in deciding to strengthen the militarization of the european union because no one raised the slightest objection to the european union becoming a world policeman alongside the united states. at the same time, it has become quite clear that the famous solidarity in the event of an attack on a member state is not only not obligatory, but also clearly falls under the aegis of nato. this is a response to all those who say that greece could count on the union in the event of an attack by turkey. in the european parliament's resolution there is not the slightest trace of sensitivity to the extremely negative consequences which, as we have repeatedly stressed, the new 'constitutional' treaty will have on the people. on the contrary, its only concern is that the text drawn up by the convention should not be changed and that its role in the eu mechanisms should not be reduced. that is why we, the members of the communist party of greece, voted against this resolution. we call on the people to intensify their struggle against the european union and the new ties it is trying to impose on us through the 'european constitution'.
i do not know exactly whether it is on the agenda, but i would ask, if possible, that the vote on the environmental liability directive which we are discussing tonight be held not tomorrow at noon but on wednesday at noon. i know very well from my group and from other political groups that various issues relating to voting, its organisation, etc. are still being discussed. the deadlines were too tight. i would therefore ask that the vote be taken at noon on wednesday, if there is no problem.
mr president, while general wesley clark a certified, as yet unindicted war criminal testified at the so-called international criminal tribunal for yugoslavia in absolute secrecy, the deputy registrar of the same 'tribunal' has issued a decision banning practically all contact between the former yugoslav president slobodan milosevic and the outside world. a similar decision was taken for mr vojislav seselj. both are candidates on the list of the socialist party of serbia for the elections on 28 december. whatever opinion one might have on the milosevic case, it is more than obvious that the ban is a punitive measure in order to prevent mr milosevic from exercising his right of freedom of speech and his right, pursuant to serbian law, to stand as a candidate in the electoral process. thus the deputy registrar's decision is a blunt intervention in the serbian elections in favour of those who sold their country to the imperialist powers and an attempt to deny the people of serbia the right to decide their own fate. last but not least, it is a clear threat to the civil rights of all of us.
mr president, i heard mr beasley repeat the brazen arguments of those who, in latvia and estonia, are brutally violating the rights of almost half the population of those countries, who were born and worked there and the only crime is to be of russian origin or to be russian-speaking. these people are being blackmailed with humiliating examinations to leave their country. at the same time, in these countries communist parties are banned, their members are persecuted, so are veterans of the anti-fascist war, and monuments are erected in honour of the ss and the nazi occupiers. at the same time, mr president, universities are being closed down, while the fyr of macedonia is required to open universities and to have proportional representation of the albanian minority, 25% of the population, in the parliament and the government. the problem, mr president, is that such views and such violations are supported by the commissioner responsible for enlargement, mr verheugen, and also by the president of the commission, mr prodi, who in a recent reply to a letter from me believes that the banning of a communist party is not a reason to criticise a country for joining the european union. but because communist parties in the european union are still legal, i fear that this is a harbinger of authoritarian and anti-democratic measures to come. i am therefore protesting, mr president, and i have insisted today that my protest be noted.
mr president, commissioner, we are in the second reading of a very important piece of legislation on the quality and safety standards for human tissues and cells intended for transplantation, with the priority of a very high level of protection of human health. it is a fact that tissues and cells contribute to the restoration of health on a daily basis and it is therefore necessary to define a specific european framework which will ensure supply and adequacy, but at the same time safeguard the physical integrity of those who receive them, that is, the recipients. the demand for tissues and cells in europe is greater than the availability. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of animals are respected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, the donation of human tissues and cells must be based on the free will of the donor and not on remuneration. the human body, as has been repeatedly stressed, is inviolable and recyclable, and should not be turned into a source of profit. the compromise reached in the negotiations satisfies the above principles. the addition that donors may receive compensation strictly limited to the reimbursement of the costs and the procedure related to the donation does not infringe the principle of voluntariness and allows member states to define the conditions under which compensation may be granted. it is also positive that in this directive, as in blood, the necessary data are stored to ensure traceability at all stages for at least thirty years after clinical use. the full and thorough information of the donor by a trained person concerning the purpose, nature, consequences and risks of the donation is a necessary condition for free consent. i consider that the protection of donor data and medical confidentiality are adequately protected by the relevant points in the annex. i would like to say, mr president, that although the package of compromise amendments does not include any other important points which have been approved by the committee responsible in the european parliament, i will ultimately agree, considering that the priority is to implement this directive as quickly as possible. we are of course awaiting the commission's proposal on the conditions for organ transplants, as you yourself, commissioner, have promised us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the directive we are discussing is very important, mr president, perhaps it is the five-year directive. because we are not just saying 'the polluter pays', and therefore the polluter can pollute, but that the polluter must pay the cost of repairing the damage he has caused. the directive can therefore respond to the great hopes of our citizens for public health and the environment and we must not weaken it, mr president and ladies and gentlemen. there were differences of opinion during the debate. it has been shown that compromise solutions can be found, such as compulsory insurance being gradual but not passing the cost of the damage on to the taxpayer and allowing the polluter to cover the damage through insurance; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. but we have problems which we cannot, it seems, find compromising solutions to. is it possible to speak of agricultural and forestry practices which can somehow justify the use of chemical fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides, when we all know - from the statistics of the union itself - the damage they can cause to biodiversity, soil and water? is it possible to make pollution permits in a way that is completely white-washed, accepting the full exemption of those who have permits or respect the existing state of the art? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. but if we do not do something about it, industry will never be persuaded to get rid of the polluting process. so things are still serious, and i would say that we should also discuss the other issues, on which i saw the commissioner being very negative. the directive cannot be silent on genetically modified organisms and the damage that their free use can cause, just as there can be no reference to the damage caused by the use of shipping or the use of nuclear energy. there are compromise amendments, i find them extremely moderate and realistic, and i do not understand how the invocation of international treaties, which have not been signed by all the members of the union, can be the answer to this question. the commission must therefore show greater will, and we too, ladies and gentlemen, must show greater will, so that this legislation is indeed the legislation of the five years. i would also like to say something because some people have spoken about teratogenesis. frankenstein produced, with his technology, a monster that surpassed him. so let us not be in the ridiculous position of producing a monster far below our capabilities.
mr president, the council has partially aligned itself with the european parliament's position on the exemptions from environmental liability of operators, which in the commission's original text were so broad that they essentially reversed the implementation of the 'polluter pays' principle. at the same time, however, in order to mitigate the burdensome consequences for the non-infringing undertakings, it was accepted by parliament that the authorisation or the failure to validly diagnose the harmful effects of the activity in question could act as mitigating circumstances when the operator is charged with the costs of restoring the ecological damage. the european parliament's moderate position is now in danger of being overturned at second reading, as there are amendments which, if accepted, would lead to a full discharge. licence and knowledge should be considered as mitigating factors only. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we insist on the need to define in the text of the directive, at reasonable intervals, the phases of implementation and to define the types of activities and losses covered. in conclusion, i should like to point out that the opposing positions of the epp do not support protection, and it is surprising that, while they call for collective responsibility here, they are in other respects advocates of individual responsibility.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, you have heard a lot of criticism, which i share, but there is no need to repeat it. i would like to stress something you said correctly when, speaking of the statute of the european central bank, you noted that it lacks the statute of the federal reserve bank because it does not contain an objective of supporting economic activity alongside the objective of price stability. it is significant that you are the first prime minister, president of the european council, to point out this flaw in the statute of the european central bank from such a formal forum and i thank you for that. i hope that the italian presidency's proposal will be accepted, that the council will be able to amend the statute of the european central bank by a strengthened majority, and i hope that the statute of the european central bank will soon be amended in the direction you have indicated, so that the european central bank will finally begin to favour investment, and indeed public investment, instead of trying to strangle it at every step, as if it were a bad boy.
in writing. - (pt) i welcome the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america, which was adopted by a council decision on 13 october 1998 and entered into force on 14 october 1998. conscious of the common heritage and shared values that bind us, i have defended the importance of the transatlantic relationship and the need for the union to maintain and strengthen its partnership with the united states of america. this agreement, whose implementation has already clearly produced mutual benefits in the scientific and technological field, represents a further step in this direction. in the hope that this agreement will be even more beneficial for both sides, which it could very well be, especially if it is given more publicity and awareness of its existence, i have of course voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - (pt) the main thrust of the report is to advocate the non-commercialization of human tissues and cells, thus preventing the human body and its parts from being turned into a source of financial profit and ensuring that the collection of tissues and cells is not carried out for profit. the voluntary and free donation of these tissues and cells (as in the case of transplants) would thus be ensured. this means fighting trafficking and the huge profits of the health-care industries and groups that use these tissues and cells. we must combat the logic of commodification of life and establish transparent criteria and rules without jeopardizing scientific research for therapeutic purposes. that is why my group supported the compromise solution that was adopted.
in writing. - the liberal democrat delegation did not vote as the rest of the eldr group on the schmidt report. we voted against amendments nos 1 to 13 and against the proposal because we wanted the present proposal to be withdrawn. we believe that vat on postal services, especially in the case of universal service for items of less than two kilograms, is a matter which should be left to the discretion of national governments, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. however, we are prepared to consider future proposals to ensure greater competition.
mr president, yesterday at the opening of the plenary session i wanted to make a proposal and i had asked for the floor. but due to lack of time, i was not given it. i want to make this proposal now. is that possible ?
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia.
i suggest. the council is concerned about the case of greek and filipino seamen placed under house arrest in pakistan and the actions taken by the pakistani authorities. it considers that the pakistani government's claims regarding the detainees are baseless and without precedent in international law. intensive negotiations are under way with the pakistani authorities and several interventions have been carried out in support of greek seafarers, including through the eu high representative in islamabad and during the recent visit to brussels by the pakistani foreign minister. on 4 november the council asked the eu presidency in islamabad to take urgent action in this respect with a view to the immediate release of the persons concerned. this was done on 9 december on the basis of a letter, following previous coordination between the greek and italian authorities at a meeting also attended by the lawyers of the crew members.
thank you very much, mr president. the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the commission's proposals. let me reiterate that this is a hostage situation. the ship's cook cannot be held responsible for an accident which was caused by the ship, and for which the master is responsible, and which resulted in pollution; nor the sailor who is sweeping; nor the head of the salvage company. in this sense, i would ask the minister to make a gesture, if you wish it to be a swan song of the italian presidency, on a major humanitarian issue affecting european citizens. so that these people can spend christmas and new year's at home. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to intervene in the pakistani government at a very high level, at the level of the prime minister and president of the european council or at the level of the italian foreign minister. i would like to thank the italian presidency again.
i suggest. i note your comments: we shall of course examine them in more detail and then we shall be able to give you a precise answer as to what action the council might decide to take.
mr president-in-office of the council, a short while ago, in answer to question no 5, you told us that the council considers it its duty to ensure that human rights are respected throughout the world. i guess from the arctic to the antarctic, and somewhere in between is the united states of america. you also told us that the way he does it depends on the level of relations he has with that particular country. the level of relations between the council and the united states of america is such that it cannot raise with the united states government a human rights issue concerning these five prisoners? or does it have to do with the point raised in question no 20 by mr pataki, namely that the council is placing the european union's policy on cuba and related matters in the hands of the united states?
i suggest. the council has repeatedly made it clear to albania that the proper conduct of regular local elections is part of the country's process of rapprochement with the european union. the serious shortcomings demonstrated in the local elections on 12 october and 16 november this year, particularly in imara, can only harm a further rapprochement with the union. in this respect, albania was fully informed that a constructive political climate and a sustainable reform policy remain crucial elements for progress in the negotiations for the stabilisation and association agreement and thus for further rapprochement with the eu.
i thank the president-in-office for his reply. i take note of the warnings given by the council to the albanian government and i would hope that the council will henceforth monitor closely the implementation of the necessary conditions for the smooth development of relations between albania and the european union with regard to respect for human and political rights in albania.
i suggest. the european union has been working to consolidate its policy in the south caucasus since the council declared in 2001 that the union wanted to play a more active political role in the region. the most visible and tangible sign of this approach was the appointment in july 2003 of ambassador heikki talvitie as the european union's special representative for the south caucasus, with the explicit task of assisting the council in stepping up the development of a comprehensive policy. the council used the joint action on the appointment of a special representative of the european union to set out a number of objectives of the union's policy in the south caucasus which are now in the public domain: (a) assist armenia, azerbaijan and georgia in the implementation of political and economic reforms, in particular in the areas of the rule of law, democratisation, human rights, good governance, development and poverty reduction; (b) in accordance with existing instruments, prevent conflict in the region, assist in conflict resolution and prepare for the return to peace, including through support for the return of refugees and internally displaced persons; (c) engage constructively with the main national actors in neighbouring countries; (d) to encourage and support further cooperation between the states of the region, in particular the states of the south caucasus, particularly as regards economic, energy and transport issues; (c) to increase the union's effectiveness and visibility in the region. the union has been actively promoting democratisation, development and cooperation in the south caucasus for more than a decade. the commission and the member states have provided significant financial assistance to armenia, azerbaijan and georgia since their independence in 1991. in 1999, the union concluded partnership and cooperation agreements with all three countries, also actively supporting their accession to the council of europe. as regards the black sea economic cooperation organisation, the european union recognises and supports its work to promote economic cooperation at regional level, thereby strengthening stability, security and prosperity in the black sea area. the european union is open to the possibility of strengthening its existing cooperation with the bsec for the development of the region. as stated by the general affairs and external relations council on 8 december, the union's relations with georgia, as well as those with armenia and azerbaijan, are firmly based on a long-term commitment to partnership and cooperation. the european union wishes to help georgia and the other south caucasus countries to consolidate their relations with the european union.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank you for your reply. but i would like to have some additional information because three years ago it was said in this chamber that the european union would promote a stability pact, like the balkans, in the region. so far, nothing has happened. the question has been raised repeatedly in this chamber that we are strengthening regional cooperation, and while at the level of the black sea there is a bank and an intergovernmental and interparliamentary procedure and secretariat, the relationship with them is as if it were something far away from us, as if it were in the far east. the european union is therefore very interested in this area, and since many countries, such as armenia, moldova, georgia, ukraine, etc., have asked for the prospect of eu membership, i think, at least for the time being, that the answer is not commensurate with the political needs of the region. so i'm waiting for clarification.
i suggest. i understood perfectly. i cannot give you the exact date now, mr president, because i do not have the documents and i cannot invent one. frankly, i know some things, but i certainly can't know everything. without giving you an imprecise date, i propose to go into it in more detail, because i do not have the documents here to give you a precise answer as to when the council asked the commission to make the amended proposal. to this we shall add, as i said a little while ago, the details of all the goods or products: i don't know how to define them, because they're things that objectively, emotion takes precedence over material. we shall therefore be more precise also in defining these goods.
mr president, this is a bit of an extrajudicial matter. it's not a follow-up question. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i am saying that it should be a matter for the council and the commission to decide. i understand him, there is a difficulty in understanding some languages, and i reserve the additional question to put it again as an oral question at the next partsession.
- the agenda calls for a joint debate on three recommendations for second reading on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. - a5-0425/2003 on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency (10949/2/2003 - c5-0463/2003 - 2001/0252 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs müller) - a5-0446/2003 on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2001/83/ec establishing a community code relating to medicinal products for human use (10950/3/2003 - c5-064/2003 - 2001/0253 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs grosset) - a5-044/2003 on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2001/82/ec on the community code relating to veterinary medicinal products (10503/ec - c5-064/2003 - c5-0503/2003 - c5-0503/03 (cod))
commission. mr president, i would like to reply to at least those members who asked questions and who are still present. firstly, mrs corbey's written question on doha. if i rephrase your question it will be easier to give a reply. i want to be very precise here. authorisation is needed for medicines only in the eu market, so this legislation concerns medicines which are authorised for the community market. mrs corbey asks whether i declare that data protection does not hinder and here i rephrase it the production of the medicines in the eu to be authorised in the developing countries. if i rephrase it like this, then my reply is 'yes'. it means that this legislation concerns the authorisation to market products in the eu. if trips and patents mean that products produced in one country can be exported to a developing country, this has no impact, because this protection only concerns authorisation to market: it is not linked to manufacturing. we are not regulating manufacturing via this regulation, we are regulating authorisation to market. there is one small exception: bolar provision, because there is always some production as regards generics. i fully share the concerns of mrs corbey, mr whitehead and many others that we must respect doha. doha takes a strict position on the patent. it does not take a position on data protection. data protection is not linked to market authorisation outside the eu. products outside the eu will be authorised for placing on the market by the authorities of those third countries, according to their legislation. i hope that this has clarified the situation. this does not hinder in any way the implementation of doha. secondly, as far as commitment is concerned, what i have said here before has been accepted by the whole college of commissioners: it will be our first priority in early 2004, which is in two weeks' time. i will do my best also to help my colleagues prepare, because not all the proposals fall under my direct responsibility. i will, however, take this issue up once this has been voted. mrs jackson raised the issue of the new member states and asked how many of them have asked for a transition period. so far none have asked, but for good reason: we cannot start to negotiate on transition periods before the legal act has been adopted. then we will be able to start negotiations. my position which my colleagues support is positively open. we understand the transition period is a problem here. mr liese raised the issue of paediatric medicines. i feel a little uncomfortable here because i personally told this house that a proposal would soon be forthcoming. as i said before, the commission decided that this proposal should go through an extended, in-depth assessment, which has delayed the procedure. on the one hand, this is good for better regulation but, on the other hand, it has caused a delay. we will do that early in 2004. i will take personal responsibility here because it is my proposal. mr liese also raised the question of direct consumer advertising. he mentioned a case in bratislava. if you have been surfing the internet or looking at your e-mail, you will have seen a lot of aggressive advertising which pops up on your screen and which you cannot do anything about. that is an explosive problem which we must deal with, but i am sure we can come back to that in the future. i turn now to the points made by mrs doyle, mr whitehead, mr parish and mr nicholson on veterinary medicine. i know they feel very strongly about this issue. mrs doyle has talked about it in committee and elsewhere and i understand her problem. when we say that we can accept an amendment in principle, it would of course be more precise to say that the amendment should be subject to modification, because normally, permanent derogation will never go through in the member states' institutions. permanent derogations are exceptional. the compromise gives a limited exemption which should be applied in a harmonised manner. it states, however, that member states may grant exemption from this requirement according to criteria established in accordance with the procedure referred to in article 89(2). so it will limit it, and this can be done on the basis of this compromise. mr nicholson mentioned internal affairs. that issue was raised in the council and many member states strongly contested that position. they say that even though the medicines may not circulate on the internal market, meat, as a food product, circulates. so there is an impact across the national borders. that has been the position of many member states and for reasons of internal market coherence they contested the possibility of having a permanent derogation in this area. unfortunately mrs de keyser has gone, because i would have liked to reply in even more depth to her comment. discussions regarding the pharmaceuticals industry are always problematic. we have public objectives which are accepted across the board: we need to have better health that is what medicines are for. but if there are no innovative new medicines we will not be able to tackle illness in the way we should. there have been some success stories in the last 20 years for example, illnesses which were extremely difficult to handle without heavy treatment in closed institutions can now be treated with medicines. but this cannot be done without innovation. twenty or thirty years ago people with mental illnesses were placed in institutions. today they can live freely, which means better quality of life and also lower costs. so we need to pursue innovation. let us take the example of alzheimer's disease. if we do not find any new, innovative medicines the cost will be enormous. we must support innovation. somebody referred to the situation in america where exclusivity periods are shorter. compare the costs for a moment. because we in europe cover the costs from public budgets we want to have a say in pricing levels. the longer protection period gives some compensation for innovation, due to the lower prices. i commissioned a study in 2000 to assess the state of the european pharmaceuticals market. it showed that in europe there are countries where, after the expiry of a patent or data protection, there is no change in the price level of generics. they remain at the same price level. so there are high prices when they are put under a patent and under data exclusivity and no change after that. this proposal will certainly create a real european market for generics. when the rules are the same and they are harmonised, i am sure the generic industry will profit from this opportunity. we need to invest in innovative medicines in order to be able to tackle difficult diseases but, at the same time, we need to push prices of generics down to reduce the costs. that is the balance we want to achieve. i am personally convinced that in that area this house has been working on very good balance. finally, i want to thank this house for a very good debate. it has been very committed in its work throughout this period. i must also say that not all the issues have been solved here, but we all have worked very hard and very well to find a compromise which is good for public health and innovation.
- mrs oomen-ruijten, for a motion to adjourn? i would like you to tell me under what article you are requesting a procedural motion.
- mrs oomen-ruijten, you know that this is not a procedural motion. it's a political position.
- mrs. corbey, this is not a procedural motion. i can't bring this up again. i understand, but i can't reopen a discussion that's already taken so long. you don't have a motion to proceed.
- again, this is not a procedural motion. let me explain. the commissioner answered questions, naming each member who spoke. (objections) mrs oomen-ruijten, please! i have to go to the police. i heard the commissioner answering the questions of each member by name.
commission. mr president, in the middle of my reply there was a lot of shouting in the house, so i had to conclude earlier than planned. however, i am ready to continue my reply. in response to mrs corbey, i should like to clarify that there is a difference with regard to manufacturing authorisation - doha concerns manufacturing. we fully support it. authorisation to market is regulated by this directive which is before the house. it in no way limits doha for they are handling different parts of the issue. if, according to doha, manufacturing is allowed for developing countries, the authorisation to market in developing countries will be given to the authorities of the countries. the question is that this data is needed for authorisation to market. on the issue raised by mrs doyle concerning recital 7: it is an explanation of the clause provided for in article 2(2); the provision contains only the legal wording of the clause. i said, in part, when i replied to mrs grossetête, that my services will discuss with all interested parties the proper application of this issue. with regard to mrs oomen-ruijten's question, on amendment no 20, which asks for member states to take due account of products registered in other member states, our position is that the common position goes beyond that amendment because it submits these products to mutual recognition. i have tried to reply to all the questions that were raised.
- thank you, chief. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0452/2003), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on traditional herbal medicines (12754/1/2003 - c5-0519/2003 - 2002/0008 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr nisticò).
- thank you, chief. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading (α5-0458/2003), on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on measuring instruments (9681/4/2003 - c5-0417/2003 - 2000/0233 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr chichester).
commission. mr president, it was not my intention to hog the debate, but in response to mr martin's question i should like to point out that, yes, harmonisation is necessary here. in the light of the famous cassis de dijon case law, harmonisation is necessary because national technical regulations conflict and separate conformity assessments are required. the proposal in question based on the new approach replaces some 11 existing old-approach directives which allow for national legislation to exist alongside community provisions and are technically outdated. harmonisation thus allows firms to gain from economies of scale and to improve the competitiveness of european firms in the global market.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the next part-session is scheduled for the following day: see minutes. (the sitting was closed at 11.30 p.m.)
mr president, there is no doubt that the union's role, together with that of the united nations and the african union, is very important in preventing conflict and bringing peace to the african continent, which is still torn by conflicts and armed conflicts. the situation in côte d'ivoire is a typical example of tension based on social and ethnic differences. the murder of the french journalist jean hélène, correspondent for radio france internationale, reveals the depth of the crisis and the contempt for the marcoussis agreement. the cotonou agreement, together with the cotonou agreement, offers a very good framework for the settlement of crises and respect for human rights and democratic norms. however, in general, when we talk about democracy and peaceful coexistence in a region where violence is a daily reality, we must take into account two serious factors. first, traditional and local approaches to dispute settlement. sustainable solutions depend heavily on the ability of local communities to build relationships of trust and cooperation between conflicting groups. experience has shown that solutions based on local values and mediation techniques have a much better chance of lasting peace. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of the euro, including the creation of a european monetary fund. secondly, the role of women in crisis management and the reconciliation process needs to be taken seriously, and i thank mr antonione for mentioning this. the european parliament's committee on women's rights has been repeatedly concerned with this issue and we have elaborated relevant positions on the role of women in peace processes. the un has also analysed the situation and the greek presidency has referred to the conclusions of the thessaloniki european council. the council and the european commission must therefore take this factor into account and support the initiatives of women in the peace process with the appropriations of 250 million euro, which is a respectable amount. finally, mr president, i would like to mention that on 10 december, the international day of human rights, the mano river women's peace network was awarded the 2003 human rights prize by the un. this is an organization made up of women from three countries, liberia, sierra leone and guinea, and it played a critical role in preventing hostilities between the three countries, forcing political leaders to return to the negotiating table, and earning the praise of the un secretary-general in april 2002. i have mentioned this to emphasize the importance of the role of women, which is often overlooked.
in writing. - (el) the european parliament's withdrawal of its proposals on the status of members has ruled out any possibility of solving the problem during the italian presidency. today's resolution is an attempt to restore, once again, the possibility of solving the problem and that is why i voted in favour of this resolution. the european parliament is exposed to public opinion; the court of justice has also ruled that the national court may not act as a public prosecutor in relation to the other institutions of the community while its own cases are not settled. as regards the system of travel expenses in particular, we must make every effort to solve this problem before the european elections.
in writing. - (el) the recommendation on a code for medicines is extremely important, because it is a very sensitive area for european citizens, but one which is governed by the commercial interests of large companies. that is why i voted in favour of all the amendments which aim at: - controlling the market independently of the pharmaceutical industry; - protecting the public from obsolete medicines; - reducing the period of commercial secrecy required by large pharmaceutical companies, which has the effect of preventing the marketing of cheaper medicines; - limiting the advertising of medicines; - creating databases independently of pharmaceutical companies.
in writing. - (el) the role of foreign forces is particularly evident in the military conflicts that are tearing côte d'ivoire apart and have already claimed tens of thousands of innocent victims. at the same time, the european union has turned the country into an experimental laboratory to test its policy of "crisis management", which essentially consists of imposing its imperialist intentions. the european union has nothing to do in côte d'ivoire. french troops must withdraw immediately and the problem must be examined under the aegis of the united nations and the african union. meps representing the greek communist party voted against the resolution, not only because it makes no mention of the parties responsible, but also because it welcomes the interventionist role played by the european union. with such positions, all the interesting elements in the resolution become nothing less than a wish list.
mr president, on the weekend of 6 and 7 december 2003, another 15 children were added to the innocent victims of the criminal attack by the us armed forces in afghanistan, killed in the course of bombing by the occupying forces. since the beginning of the invasion of afghanistan, thousands of children and civilians have been killed, under the pretext of persecuting the taliban, but with the real aim of occupying afghanistan. we are in a similar and worse situation because of the illegal and barbaric invasion of iraq by american and british forces. however, while the european parliament showed particular sensitivity to the dead among the attackers, observing a minute's silence in their memory, it was indifferent to the countless victims they caused. mr president, i would ask the bureau to invite the house, during the next partsession, to observe a minute's silence in memory of the children and the thousands of other civilians who lost their lives during the above attacks.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for your support of our initiative on the interoperability of tolls, which is an essential element of european policy on infrastructure charging and demand management. this directive is one of the proposals in the white paper on transport policy and is obviously a preliminary step towards the introduction of the new euro-vignette systems and towards making it easier for users to pay the costs of using road infrastructure. the directive has three objectives: firstly, the interoperability of toll systems; secondly, the establishment of a european toll system; and thirdly, the introduction of satellite technology. the principle of interoperability makes it possible to remove obstacles to the completion of the internal market in tolls and thus to avoid barriers; it also makes it possible to extend tolls on a larger scale and to limit congestion in tolling zones. the european toll service we are proposing, like the interoperability of the systems, responds to a real need of users, especially transport operators, who want to have a single electronic means of payment for the whole network as soon as possible. the service we propose, based on the principle of the single contract, provides both users and operators with the protection of a clear legal document which can be used in the event of litigation. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. as regards the migration from the current tele-tolling systems, based on microwave systems, to satellite technology, i would say that this is the only solution for the future which will allow us to respond to the diversity of the european union's pricing policy needs and which will also allow for a considerable improvement in the quality of road transport, thanks to the introduction of new telematic services and new possibilities, especially safety systems such as speed limiters, anti-collision devices, monitoring of the traffic of dangerous goods, information to travellers - depending on their position - on the situation of the various roads and on the flow of traffic at the various points, etc. mr president, the absence of a firm commitment to satellite technology would not be entirely consistent with the decisive policy which this commission and this parliament in particular, as well as the council and the european union as a whole, are pursuing in favour of the galileo system. i would like to say that there are many member states - with the notable exceptions of germany and italy - which wish to continue to use microwave systems in parallel with satellite systems. this desire, which is understandable given the investments already made, can be met by including a firm recommendation of the satellite solution - rather than acquiring the full and closed commitment - which will allow it to become a reality in the medium term. the council also agrees. i shall listen to the rest of the debate, but i hope that, thanks to the work of the rapporteur, mrs sommer, and the co-rapporteur, mr turmes, and thanks to the work done by the council, we will be able to adopt it at first reading - very important, i repeat - to facilitate the use of toll systems on the roads in the future. mr president, we were not going to discuss the 'euro-vignette directive' today, but i would like to tell mr turmes that the transport working party has already met on several occasions to make progress on this complex directive, and that we are trying to achieve a result as successful as the one i hope for with the 'tele-tolling directive', that is to say, that parliament and the council can adopt it at first reading - before the end of the current mandate of the parliament.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs renate sommer, on the work she has done on her report. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and i am sure that the council will accept it. but in any case, that does not mean that we should not recall that mrs sommer worked in a very good and systematic way and managed to get the commission's original proposal accepted by almost all the members of our committee. at the same time, it has also made an agreement with the council so that we can move very quickly towards what is necessary, which is the interoperability of toll systems at european level. the commission proposal is in principle acceptable to us because it makes life easier for users, i.e. drivers, who in cross-border transport can have fewer difficulties with this approach. we have just a few objections, which are concentrated on two points, and we are glad that both the commission and the council understand them. firstly, when will this new concept of tolls be introduced? we are proposing to move the timetable from 2005 for buses and lorries to 2007 because we believe that it takes two years to adapt all those who need to adapt in order for the system to start working. secondly, whether or not to apply exclusively the new satellite positioning system which has been introduced in germany with many problems. i think it is to the credit of the rapporteur that she shows a genuinely european approach to this matter, that is to say, she does not want to impose exclusively the german system and she proposes, together with all her colleagues, that this decision be taken in agreement with the relevant sector, the member states and the other parties concerned, so that we can really be sure that the systems will be interoperable and effective for everyone.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the rapporteur, mr paolo costa, asked me to represent him because the agenda had changed and he had to be in italy. the conciliation procedure for the costa report on the transit of lorries through austria was extremely difficult and, if you like, psychologically torturous for all of us who took part, because it was a regulation which concerned a specific member state, namely austria. there were colleagues, austrian members of parliament, who, in my view, had every reason to be aware of the issues we were discussing, because the austrian people were, and still are, particularly aware of this issue and that is why there was a protocol on this when austria joined the european union in 1995. but the validity of these provisions has expired and, for this reason, the european parliament's view from the first reading was that 2006 should be the last year in which there should be specific arrangements for austria, all the more so as there was also an improvement in environmental protection, which was also recorded in the statistics provided to us by the european commission. you know that there have been differences of opinion between parliament and the council. the parliament argued that austria's preferential treatment measures should be limited to the alpine zone, while the council argued that they should apply to the whole of austria. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the two institutions' views were reconciled during the conciliation procedure. we accepted the council's view that the special measures should cover the whole of austria, but the council has come closer to parliament's views and some of the trucks for which the council proposed no transit or transit under quotas will now be able to do so freely, because that was the logic of parliament's proposals and it concerns only some of the trucks and not all of them. finally, there was a question, as the number of trucks subject to quotas was limited, namely how many eco-points should be available, and on this point parliament, in solidarity with austria and its austrian colleagues, called for the total number of eco-points to be reduced by a significant percentage. finally, this view of parliament was accepted by the council and we thus reached the result of the conciliation. the austrian colleagues voted against it because they considered the measures too strict for austria, and there were other colleagues, such as mr ferber from bavaria, who thought that the result of the conciliation was too favourable for austria and therefore voted against it. i have to tell you, both as a member of the conciliation committee and as a representative of the european people's party, that the result was balanced, the agreement we had was a good agreement after all, and this is also shown, if you like, by the fact that the various parties directly concerned have voted against it, some because they consider the measures to be lenient, others because they consider them to be strict. in any case, after such long and difficult negotiations, i can only recommend to all my colleagues today, mr president, that we support the outcome of the conciliation procedure, because these measures must be in force and the deadline will be 2006. if progress is made in the meantime on the euro-vignette, the agreement will also apply to austria. however, from 2006 onwards, austria will be subject to the same rules as other european countries, and the main reason is that, at least according to statistics, there is an improvement in environmental indicators, to which the improvement of the truck fleet is a decisive contributor. so we have an improvement in the environmental performance of trucks passing through austria. mr president, we as the european people's party will vote with a large majority in favour of the outcome of the conciliation procedure. i am aware, of course, that some colleagues are not happy. i would like to say to my austrian colleagues in particular that we have taken their comments very seriously, as well as those of the austrian government, which has fought very hard to uphold the austrian positions. we have not been able to go any further, nor have our colleagues from the other political groups. we could not get any closer to the austrian positions, because then we would have had problems with colleagues from other delegations. we have therefore got a good result, the best that could be achieved, and for that reason i think that it will be approved by a large majority of colleagues in the vote.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, and in particular its chairman, mrs cederschiöld, and the rapporteur, mr lisi, on the excellent work they have done on such a complicated matter. this regulation is intended to reduce the frequency with which two totally reprehensible practices occur in the field of air transport, which cause serious harm to passengers, who sometimes feel - we feel - that they are treated as baggage, not as persons, not as citizens, not as consumers with rights. one of these practices is that, having a perfectly formed ticket, with all its conditions met, we are denied boarding when it comes time to use it. the other practice is that, having a perfectly formed ticket, that is to say, a contract with an airline, the airline suspends the flight, not for extraneous and extraordinary reasons which prevent flying - such as a foggy situation - but for commercial reasons such as, for example - i suppose it has not only happened to me and some of your honourable members have also been in the same situation - that there were few passengers for that flight. the provisions proposed here seek to establish compensation which will provide airlines with a lack of incentive or disincentive to carry out these practices and also to minimise the inconvenience and problems caused to passengers and citizens in these situations. i shall not go into details, because the rapporteur, mr lisi, has explained them very well. i hope that, with the entry into force of the regulation, there will be a drastic reduction in the number of passengers denied boarding and that, if this happens, the use of the auction or voluntary system - which is set up with this system - will cause the least number of difficulties and problems to citizens. i know that some of you are concerned, and that representatives of some airlines have spoken at length with some of you, defending their legitimate interests. i understand your concern, but i want to tell you that the airlines are clearly coming out of the rut they have been in for the last few years. the commission is the first responsible body and the first concerned body for the economic success of our airlines. in this respect, we have taken a number of measures over the years to support, support, sustain and defend our airlines in europe and beyond. i would remind you of some of these measures: the single sky initiative, which will mean reducing costs and improving fleet turnover, the authorization of alliances, the fight against distortions of the conditions of competition - in particular, the question of support for our airlines in the face of anti-competitive or predatory practices by third countries - and the support we have given them with issues such as insurance when there have been difficulties in the past. ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are concerned about european airlines and defending their interests, which is what we have to do: we are now negotiating agreements with the united states in particular, so that there is a common transatlantic aviation area between the united states and the european union. but it is not just that, because we must also take care to defend the rights of passengers, of citizens. and that is what we are going to support and reinforce with these measures. i would also like to say that the most serious and responsible companies are already implementing most of these measures on a voluntary basis. mr president, i hope that this parliament will support the outcome of this conciliation tomorrow, and i would like to repeat my thanks to the president, mrs cederschiöld, and to the rapporteur, mr lisi.
mr president, i think we can all agree that the passenger, or at any rate the person who has planned to travel by air and goes to the airport where he is told that he cannot fly or that his flight will be too long delayed so that his journey will be meaningless, should be given some sort of substantive protection. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the other hand, we have seen the interests of airlines, especially in this critical period in the aviation sector, and for this reason the european parliament has from the outset been in favour of balanced measures which would serve the consumer on the one hand, without harming airlines and their competitiveness on the other. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i personally supported the agreement with the council during the conciliation procedure and will be voting in favour of it tomorrow, because i believe that it provides a good framework for protecting the consumer, the traveller, without harming the airlines. some airlines i know still have some objections. i take them into account, but i don't agree with them. i think they're exaggerating. i think the agreement we have is a good one and we should accept it as it is.
the commission this question gives me the opportunity to clarify this point, because it seems that not everyone has understood it yet. my responsibility for relations with the acceding countries is complete and undivided until 1 may 2004. that means that everything that still needs to be discussed with these countries is done through me, and if representatives of minorities wish to talk, or if there is something to discuss with the governments, i am of course happy to do so. it is quite by chance that i met the representatives of the german minority in poland in wroclaw just a few days ago. so if there are any concerns, i'm happy to take them up. after 1 may after accession then the commissioners will be responsible for the respective acquis areas falling within their portfolios. so in the case of minority protection, i think that after 1 may 2004 my colleague antonio vittorino will take over the relay and, as i know him, he will certainly work with great commitment to ensure that the rights of minorities are respected everywhere.
the commissioner knows that our party, the communist party of greece, has on many occasions raised the problem of the rights of the russian-speaking minority in the baltic states. this is an unacceptable situation. a third of the population in two of these three countries do not have the right to citizenship, did not participate in the referendum on the accession of the countries to the european union, do not have the possibility of studying in universities in their own language and a number of other things. we have not received any satisfactory response from you, nor from the european union in general, and i really cannot understand how it is possible for you to show such sensitivity, for example, to the rights of the albanian-speakers in kosovo and to bomb kosovo, to bomb serbia, to talk about the rights of some of the replacements in cuba and not to have the slightest interest in the policies, which i do not hesitate to call revanchist and neo-fascist, of the governments of the baltic states. it's a case of extreme hypocrisy in my opinion.
the commission, madam president, has already made a number of proposals. the turkish republic of northern cyprus is not recognised by any country in the world except turkey, and i have no intention of changing that. the elections which took place last sunday must therefore be regarded as a political process with consequences which, however, can be important for us. the commission first of all considers that, three days after these elections, there is still a chance of achieving a just, lasting and functional solution to the cyprus conflict by 1 may 2004. the commission continues to urge all parties concerned to seek a comprehensive solution to the cyprus problem on the basis of the kofi annan plan. as regards the link with turkey's application for membership, the commission stated in its strategy paper of the beginning of november that it sees such a political link. and the commission has found that the lack of a solution could become a serious obstacle to turkey's eu aspirations. the european council last weekend welcomed the commission's suggestion to establish such a political link. the council has, however, opted for the form of an incentive, not the form of a warning, as the commission has done, and has pointed out that a solution to the cyprus problem would make it much easier for the eu to pursue turkey's aspirations. but this is, of course, essentially the same statement and for the turkish government it means that not only the commission but also all 15 member states and the 10 new ones see such a political link between the two issues, without us thereby creating a new condition or a new criterion. the commission is prepared to offer all possible assistance for a rapid solution and to prepare the necessary measures for the rapid implementation of community law in the north of the island. i would remind you that the commission has offered to host an international donor conference in the event of a solution, in order to find international funds to compensate for the economic and social backwardness in the north of the island. i would also like to reiterate that the european union is prepared to take account of the modalities of a solution in community law and that the union has already provided aid of eur 206 million for the northern part of the island in the event of a solution. i would like to conclude by saying that i very much hope that the turkish government in ankara will understand that it is in its own interest and that it is in its best interest to support a new initiative to resume the cyprus talks now and to use the window of time that still exists. the window is narrow, but it's still there. and in every respect it would be better to be able to organise the accession of cyprus on 1 may on the basis of a political solution to the conflict.
i am of course in full agreement with your view that these are political processes, commissioner, and i would like to ask you about mr giul's recent statement that turkey and the turkish cypriot side are preparing a compromise on the island, which will be made public next week. these are recent statements, yesterday or today. so i would like to ask if you know more about this compromise and also i would like to ask you about erdogan's statement that "no one can turn a blind eye to the will of the people" and that "the voters want to turn a page". so deal with the consequences. in your opinion, this is a recognition of the victory of the opposition in northern cyprus and do you think it is a change in ankara's position? i would like to end by raising another point: there was a group of observers from the faculty of law at the university of oslo, who sent out a statement today, saying that what they saw was a "voter fraud in order to increase support for the ruling parties in the last elections". i would like to ask you how you would comment on this matter.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have heard your views on night flights in general and i agree with you, as well as on railways, which cannot really be transferred. but when planes, to save a few minutes of flight or a few pounds of fuel, fly over populated areas instead of landing over the sea, as is done at athens international airport, and thus overload neighborhoods with hundreds of thousands of inhabitants, what happens? as far as i know, there must already be a complaint to the european commission about the athens international airport and i would like to ask you what is happening in this case.
vice-president of the commission. (es) the commission understands that the honourable member is referring to a case pending before the court of justice concerning, inter alia, the conditions applicable to crew members imposed by greek legislation on vessels engaged in cabotage services. in the request relating to this matter the commission did not distinguish between the rules applicable to bridge staff and those applicable to engine room staff. the crew rules apply to the entire crew of the ship. the commission's complaint against the greek state in this case is that it applies the rules of the host state to cruise ships for which regulation (eec) no 3577/92 provides for the application of the rules of the flag state. the application of the host state's crew rules for island cabotage is provided for in respect of scheduled services only. moreover, even in this case, the applicable national rules cannot be contrary to the principle of freedom to provide services. therefore, any requirement imposed by national legislation as regards crew cannot introduce restrictions which are not justified by overriding reasons of general interest and the restrictions must be proportionate to the objective pursued. in this context, the commission notes that the solas and stcw conventions - ratified by all the states of the union - contain rules on ship crews, the purpose of which is precisely safety at sea. as the commission pointed out in its recent communication on the interpretation of regulation (eec) no 3577/92, it considers that, as regards the rules on safety and training, any conditions going beyond the rules contained in these conventions would constitute a disproportionate restriction on the freedom to provide services.
i think that the commission's position is contradictory, mr president, and i would like to ask the commissioner a question to answer my question: i would like to ask the commissioner, in addition to the cruise ships, whether she thinks that the host country can regulate the manning of coastal ships not only for deck and engine room personnel but also for cabin crew and catering staff. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to it.
, in writing. decentralised cooperation is a form of intervention complementary to the union's development policy. it is mainly aimed at improving the quality of assistance and creating conditions for further action and cooperation. the main feature of the programme should therefore not be the amount of funding. moreover, the evolution of the legislative framework does not seem to have led to a greater absorption of funds so far, while the budgetary reference amount in the european commission's proposal for 2004-2006 provides for an average annual amount higher than that of the previous period of implementation of the action and corresponds in my view to the objective pursued. i agree with the objectives and the need to continue the action. moreover, the size of the aid and its experimental nature require a flexible procedure in order to optimise its effectiveness. it is clear, however, that the activities of these bodies and the management of community funds by them should be characterized by transparency and sound financial management. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. it is important that the annual evaluation of the action is not limited to a quantitative presentation of the actions financed, but also includes a qualitative evaluation of the cooperation, so that trends emerging for the following years are visible.
mr president, today's debate shows clearly that the bush pressures of last summer are taking on a life of their own. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the genetically modified organisms are not only allowed to be moved, but also to be cultivated freely in the european union. i should like to state at the outset our categorical opposition to the cultivation of genetically modified products and to point out for the first time the hypocrisy of the commission which, while implementing the revision of the cap, with the basic principle of supposedly improving the quality of agricultural products, guaranteeing food hygiene and safety, environmental protection, etc., promotes the cultivation of genetically modified products. the most characteristic example of its hypocrisy is tobacco, for which, under the pretext of protecting public health and sustainable development, subsidies are drastically reduced with the aim of abolishing the cultivation of tobacco for good. recently, michael meacher, the environment minister in the first blair government, made a statement published in the british newspaper independent saying the following: i don't see how the blair government could issue responsible permits for gm crops. all the evidence of the investigations turned out to be negative and this position of mr mitchel is of particular importance, since under his ministry in 1999 an extensive experimental cultivation of genetically modified plants was launched. of the 210 pieces grown, half were modified and half were conventional, and the results of the survey are particularly revealing of the potential risks to the environment and to consumer health. even the main argument of the multinational gm seed companies, mainly in the us, has proved to be false. during the multi-year trial, not only was the need for pesticides not reduced, but the specific pesticides required for the genetically modified crops proved to be more harmful than those required for conventional crops. the studies showed that the gm crops of olive, maize, and sugar beet were doing far more damage to the fauna and flora than conventional crops. in addition, nobel laureate professor sherwood rowland points out that once mutated organisms are released into the environment and found to be harmful to the environment, it will be impossible to stop their harmful effects. the mutated organisms will continue, multiplying continuously, their destructive work as weapons of mass environmental destruction. the european parliament's report is essentially aimed at conveying the idea that genetically modified organisms can coexist with conventional and organic products, raising some concerns about the conditions and arrangements for coexistence, while it is well aware that many studies point out that it is extremely difficult, if not impossible, to protect against infections when these crops coexist. as for the hypocritical appeal to the polluter pays principle, i do not understand how one can assess the environmental costs and the damage to consumer health on the one hand, and on the other hand, i fear that the responsibility, indirectly but clearly, is being placed on the producers themselves. in conclusion, mr president, the european parliament has only one obligation to european farmers, consumers and the environment: to say a firm and total no to the cultivation of genetically modified organisms. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
mr president, the honourable member has mentioned that 400 000 people in the european union suffer from multiple sclerosis, the largest proportion of whom are women, in a ratio of two to three. with today's scientific tools, the disease is diagnosed at an early stage and, with appropriate treatment, the progression of the disease is controlled or slowed down and the quality of life of sufferers is substantially improved. it is well known, mr president, that the community, on the basis of the treaty on european union, implements policies and measures aimed at ensuring a high level of health protection. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. the argument that the member states are responsible for dealing with the consequences of the disease in question is therefore not valid and should not be. it is necessary to prepare as soon as possible an epidemiological study on a european scale, in collaboration with who, in order to collect data to highlight the extent of the problem and to emphasize the need for intensive research and international cooperation. the report by the committee on petitions is revealing and enlightening and, of course, it is clear that i am in full agreement with the proposal to establish a code of good practice, because this will lead to the identification of uniform methods of care and rehabilitation activities. i also fully agree with the view that the health authorities in the member states should promote self-care programmes for patients with ms, which, together with the implementation of specific working conditions, will be two important factors in maintaining good mental health, which as we know is greatly compromised by the very nature of the disease. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and mrs louise mcvayn on showing us that it takes one person and one fight to have results for many!
mr president, the debate on the information society and globalisation may not prevent or even facilitate globalisation, but it does help us to decipher the terms and conditions under which it takes place. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. european citizens are waiting for answers to the dynamic processes that are dramatically affecting their lives in the 21st century. the international telecommunication union had the initiative for this first global conference on the information society held in geneva, but the un also put its stamp on it, enabling, in particular, developing countries to demand equal opportunities for their citizens and to call for a more just knowledge society. the creation of a solidarity fund is, in my view, the main demand. internet access and mobile communication needs should be met by 2010 so that the majority of remote communities in third world villages can have real access. the action plan is very important for this purpose. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the united nations charter and the united nations charter. the above are essential tools for dealing with the new circumstances. but there are a whole host of issues that need their own answers. electronic democracy is perhaps the most central. but we are also interested in education, health, intellectual property, security, human rights, and economic and social practices. all of these are looking for their own operating framework within the digital environment. and the answers are not always easy. the european parliament must therefore follow them closely and be able to be present with its own views. i regret that this debate is taking place so long after the conference. we must in future participate effectively so that we can have our say there.
mr president, at a time when two thirds of the world's population are suffering from poverty, hunger and disease, it seems rather strange that the un should be holding a world summit on the information society in geneva. it is a question of whether the ultimate aim of this debate is nothing other than to increase the sales and profits of the information monopolies, namely ibm with computers, microsoft with software and the telecommunications companies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the goal of having half the world's population connected to the internet by 2015, and the goal of having everyone on the planet with access to radio and television by then, is not supported by any measure. the commission has also not addressed the issue of financial assistance or regulatory issues for the internet. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the problem we have to solve is not that people, when they have nothing to eat, will be stuck in front of a screen, typing obsessively. the problem is the welfare of mankind and the necessary condition for that is peace. but this will not be solved as long as the monopolies exploit the wealth of our planet for their own account, as long as they control information, as long as the imperialists slaughter our fellow men. it will be solved by the struggle of the peoples for a radical revolutionary transformation of society.
the european parliament has recently adopted the own-initiative report i drew up on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities on the position of women in the new information society. i am particularly pleased that the geneva declaration included the need to promote the integration of the gender dimension, i.e. gender mainstreaming, in the information society. however, the adoption of legislative and regulatory measures is not enough for the proper development of new technologies, since it is known that the financial resources available are very limited. the need to update the ethical rules governing the use and development of the information society should have been stressed more strongly in geneva. so we are talking about digital democracy. the participation of women in this can be very important, because women are able to bring out a different moral dimension, based on the different value system that characterizes them. unfortunately, so far, in the public debate on the development and implications of new technologies, attention has focused mainly on the economic impact, ignoring the analysis that considers the issues of democracy, but also the gender dimension, with the consequence that technology issues are misinterpreted as "neutral" towards democracy and towards gender. the lack of access to new technologies and digital illiteracy are increasingly developing into new forms of social exclusion, which directly endanger women. the report i have drawn up on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities lists the causes that sustain this situation, such as social stereotypes and cultural prejudices, which limit women's choices and put barriers in their careers, resulting in more general negative consequences for the economy from the unreasonable use of human resources. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that the united nations world summit on the information society will contribute to the public debate on what kind of information society we want.
in writing. - (el) although the eu budget for 2004 is one of the thinnest in recent years and although we are seeing a reduction in expenditure under the structural funds and the cap, the 'defence and security policy' offensive and the 'reconstruction of iraq' are very generously funded. this funding is in line with the decisions of the european council, which unanimously decided that 'the stability of iraq is in everyone's interest', while stressing that the eu 'is committed to supporting the political and economic reconstruction of the country'. but how can you finance a country that is under occupation and why does no one talk about it? objectively, this money will not go to the iraqi people, but to the administration of the occupation forces and a few "non-governmental" organizations. this money is being given without any basic conditions being set to stop the killing of innocent victims, the destruction of the country's infrastructure and the environment. in essence, it finances and legitimizes the invasion of the country by the united states and its allies. this is further proof of the eu's excessive hypocrisy. we condemn the funding proposal and vote against it, because it was put forward only to give the eu its share of the spoils. what the iraqi people need is to see the conquerors go so that they can take their own destiny into their own hands.
in writing. - (el) we, the meps of the greek communist party, voted against the resolution because, unlike the european parliament, the workers have no reason to mourn the failure of the intergovernmental conference on the "euroconstitution". although the failure was largely the result of internal disputes over the distribution of power, from an objective point of view it offers new opportunities for popular reactions across the eu against the monstrosity of the new treaty. the brussels intergovernmental conference once again confirmed the communist party of greece's assessment that the debate is far removed from the popular interests, since no one in the debate questions the introduction of neoliberalism, the consolidation of the eu's role as a police state alongside the united states, or the damage to democratic rights and freedoms.
in writing. - (el) the brussels summit was no different from previous summits in the anti-popular nature of its decisions. we note in particular the new step taken towards submission to us imperialist plans with the text on transatlantic relations, the continuation of the offensive 'security' policy in the second solana document, improved and modified in relation to the one presented in thessaloniki, and the readiness to send a 'euro-army' to bosnia-herzegovina. for the ninth time, they congratulate turkey on its 'reforms' while repeating their wish list for a solution to the cyprus problem, without daring to close the door to accession to turkey otherwise. we also note that the attack on democratic rights has intensified with police and judicial cooperation, joint border management, confirmation and specialisation of the thessaloniki decision to introduce biometric data in passports. in the economic field, they confirm their gifts to monopolies in the form of transeuropean networks, and they promise to improve competition, to accelerate anti-labour reforms, to increase the 'adaptability' of enterprises and employees. although it expresses some reservations about biometric data, the european parliament resolution fully endorses the council's decisions and even regrets that most member states have not transposed the 'european arrest warrant' into national legislation. that is why we are voting against.
