mr president, i would just like to explain that the reason why we are asking for this item to be removed from the agenda - and we would be in favour of adding the item on illinois - is that we would like to ask, at the appropriate time, for a statement on north korea to be put on the agenda of the mini-summit, in view of the announced withdrawal of that country from the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. we think it would be better to deal with this matter at a more solemn and detailed time than to deal with it as one of the urgent matters at the last moment.
mr president, i entirely agree with the proposal by mr barón crespo and with the clarifications by mr poettering. i just want to tell mr watson that there is still a little something going on in his country. a british court is due to rule on the extradition request of the chechen deputy prime minister at the end of the month. it seems to me to be something quite different from marginal, and i am surprised that the president, who comes from this country, has forgotten it.
speaking of matters concerning the death penalty, i would ask the president to send another letter. in this case, the bad news is that 26 congolese have been sentenced to death for the murder of laurent kabila. we are waiting for news of the possible pardon, which will be granted by your son, but it seems to me that it is worthwhile that our president also draws attention to this issue.
mr president, first of all i should like to say to mr posselt that my group voted against the reduction in urgencies; i think, however, that he was practically the only one, unlike his group. however, what i wanted to say about north korea is that, as i said a moment ago, we think it is important that there should be a statement and a debate in this house on north korea's withdrawal from the non-proliferation treaty, and a statement by the council and the commission. that's why we're asking for this to be added to the mini-night's agenda.
mr president, i want to report on an unprecedented event that took place last friday in italy, in the city of verona. some 30 members of a neo-nazi organisation stormed a local television station where a debate was taking place and brutally beat the representative of an islamic community. now, the fact that this person expressed very questionable positions, bordering on provocation, has of course not prevented all democratic forces from condemning this very serious fact. the most serious thing, however, is that a member of this parliament, mr borghezio, a member of the northern league, not only justified this act but said that he was in favour of such incidents. you will understand, mr president, that it will be very difficult for me personally to remain in this chamber when this person is called upon to speak.
the rapporteur. mr president, it is on the initiative of the committee on constitutional affairs that the european parliament is tackling for the first time, with a specific report and a draft resolution, the issue of the role of regional and local authorities in european integration. it is not difficult to understand the reasons and aims of this initiative. in fact, especially in the last decade, there has been a widespread phenomenon of decentralisation, regionalisation and the growth of local autonomy in the member states of the union, a phenomenon which should be appreciated and taken seriously into account when reflecting and discussing the state of the european union and its future. regional and local authorities have acquired a significant weight in the transposition of community legislation and the management of community programmes within the individual states. they must therefore also feel involved in the preparation of union policies and acts. in this connection, the draft resolution which is now before parliament for a vote in plenary contains significant proposals: to incorporate into the new constitutional framework the principles of respect for regional and local identities, and thus the application of subsidiarity, not only in relations between the union and the member states but also towards regional and local authorities; to commit the commission, also on the basis of its white paper on governance, to involve representatives of regional and local authorities in the preparation of its proposals; urge the member states to promote and enhance each of them according to the characteristics of its constitutional order the participation of regional and local authorities in the decision-making process of the union. with the resolution we have prepared, which, if supported by a broad consensus in the vote, will represent an important point of reference for the next debate, at the beginning of february, in the brussels convention, the cause of the recognition of the role of regional and local authorities in the construction of europe will take a significant step forward. i hope that, even through amendments which correct or clarify the text adopted by the committee on constitutional affairs, some of the concerns expressed by myself and other colleagues in committee will be taken into account and that we will avoid coercion and unilateralism which would harm the cause in which we believe. i would like to reiterate the criteria i used as rapporteur: first, it is necessary to refer to all the autonomous territorial entities operating within the member states. as we all know, they vary greatly in size and nature, but all of them, from the largest to the smallest, whatever their role and weight, represent certain common values: the value of closeness, of the closest adherence to the feelings, opinions and needs of citizens, the value of the most immediate and widespread democratic participation possible, and all of them must therefore be recognised in the european constitution as playing a decisive role in achieving the objective assigned to the convention on the future of europe: the objective of a stronger union closer to its citizens, of a union that grows not only more efficiently but also more democratically. i therefore did not propose in my draft report any division of the regions or local authorities into different categories. the granting of special status and rights to a part of the autonomous territorial entities would give rise to difficult and counterproductive disputes, including the very definition and delimitation of one or the other category, for example that of regions with legislative powers, and would obscure the value of the recognition of the whole reality, the whole universe, of regional and local powers. secondly, care must be taken not to burden an institutional system and procedures which, by all accounts, must be simplified. and when i say 'institutional system' i also mean the court of justice and its functioning. in general, care must be taken not to aggravate a decision-making process which is already subject to many influences by means of a complex of filters and more or less rigid brakes. in conclusion, i trust that my colleagues will reflect on my remarks and facilitate a broad convergence in the votes tomorrow. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that mr napolitano's report, to which we owe our thanks for the difficult and complicated work he has done, should be an opportunity to stress, with all the institutional strength of the european parliament, the need for the new europe, the one which will be based on the constitutional treaty which the convention is drawing up, to give full meaning to the application of the principle of subsidiarity, without any distortion. this means that the result will only be achieved if subsidiarity is not limited to relations between the union and the national states, but extends to territorial collectivities, regions and municipalities, while strictly respecting the constitutional order of each country. it is only the territorial collectivities - the regions and the municipalities - that give substance to democracy of proximity; it is they who make it possible to strengthen the very roots of democracy and to bring citizens closer to the institutions, including the european institutions. the convention is the place to untie this knot. it started by concentrating its attention only on the first level of subsidiarity, that between the union and the states. we must get out of this trap because if we sanction this double level of subsidiarity - between the union and the states and between the states and the territorial collectivities - we prevent - i believe this is the knot around which we are all getting a little tangled - the recognition of the direct link between the european institutions and the territorial collectivities that already exists and is bearing promising fruit, if it is not misinterpreted or, on the contrary, if it is not killed in its birth. it is a trap that we must avoid. to do so, i hope that the convention will draw on the debate that has been taking place in europe on this subject for a long time, especially in the council of europe. i hope that the convention will succeed in recognizing and enshrining the right to local and regional autonomy, a right which will be regulated in the laws of the individual countries but which must be such, the uniqueness of subsidiarity, the equal dignity of the levels of government, the right of local authorities to have their own financial resources and the right to bring cases to court, which can find ways of balancing the technical requirements to prevent this from becoming a boomerang against the needs of the territorial collectivities, but which cannot prevent this from happening. perhaps the idea of strengthening the channel through the committee of the regions can be the solution we all need.
mr president, i too would like to thank president napolitano for the excellent work he has done and to concentrate on what has been the most controversial point in his report, namely paragraph 8. it seems to me that the obvious and normal consequence of the european union's transition from a system based on an international treaty, negotiated by diplomats, to a federal political union, based on a constitution, is that of organisation, of strengthening the instruments of constitutional control. the argument that direct access by certain regions with constitutional, and therefore legislative, powers would result in a deadlock in the court of justice seems to me to be a very weak argument indeed, because if that were the case, then we would have to find a way of strengthening the court of justice, making the system stronger and better able to accommodate these appeals. it seems to me, moreover, that there is a need to make these constitutional remedies - as mr duff has already said - more immediately recognizable and accessible to the citizens, and this not only in the case of the regions but also in the case of violations of the fundamental rights of citizens. i think this is an important aspect of the future european constitution, and that is why i think it is frankly exaggerated to over-dramatize the possibility offered by this report, which is also the most innovative and original part of it, and to consider it a kind of drama that we would not be able to handle. it seems to me, moreover, that the proposed compromise has two fundamental limitations, because it proposes two filters, two filters which are themselves insufficient: the state cannot be the filter of the region because it is very often in conflict with the region itself and its powers, and the committee of the regions, which was created deliberately weak, cannot be an additional filter for the powers of the legally recognized regions, also because it introduces, maintains the idea of a false neutrality, as commissioner barnier said, and a false equality between the regions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the regions are not treated in the same way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the napolitano report deals with one of the most controversial issues facing the convention: the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. i think it is right that the proposal on the union's powers should not interfere with the national laws. we cannot, however, ignore the fact that some national constitutions confer important legislative powers on the regions, and the convention will have to recognise this, without, however, creating privileges, without disturbing the internal market, without dissolving the need for a political europe. in the light of all these considerations, i think it is right to give the regions with legislative powers the possibility of appealing directly to the court of justice when their prerogatives are affected by european decisions. i think it would be a mistake to ignore that some regions or länder in germany, italy and spain represent territorial collectivities of a much larger size than many of the realities that have been consolidated into national states. the search for a broad consensus on this report, which president napolitano rightly urged, is a requirement of a constituent process which must encourage the participation of the regions and local authorities in the future of community europe.
mr president, the napolitano report is not a simple subject, especially in the context of the process of european union integration which is currently under way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is an undeniable tension between the supranational and the regional dimensions: this tension stems from a historical fact, because the more the dynamics of european development took on supranational connotations, the more we forgot that within many states processes of regionalisation were developing with characteristics and with philosophies of decentralisation different from what we were building in the european union. so a kind of grey area has been created, and at times even legal vulnus, if we think about what has happened in recent years. we have seen a process of europeanisation of the powers conferred on the regions by the constitutions; we have seen a lack of or relative participation of the regions in the community decision-making processes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are thinking of the participation of the länder, through the bundesrat, in the federal legislative process and the state legislative initiative which is the responsibility of the italian regions; let's think about another element of punishment: the expiry of guarantees, in particular with regard to judicial protection for infringement of the right of jurisdiction. i think that the napolitano report attempts to give a very interesting legal answer to all this. it is the basis of a debate which will be brought to fruition in the convention, probably at the beginning of february, and which, through the amendments tabled, may well require some additional reflection when it is too open to the possibility of appeal to the constitutional court. it allows this parliament to offer the convention the construction of the europe of the citizens we want.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mrs swiebel for the excellent work she has done, or at least what we consider to be excellent work. we share the contents of the report and, above all, the courageous approach it has taken in pointing out, in a timely and objective manner, the names of states which have committed violations of human rights or have not signed or ratified international conventions relating to their protection and defence. among the many problems identified in the report, as this debate shows, two are particularly important and sensitive: firstly, the concern that a blind fight against terrorism could lead, if it is not already happening, to a lowering of the guard on the promotion, protection and defence of inalienable civil and human rights. in this connection, there are already some people in the united states today who are proposing to introduce torture legally. this is a debate which is of great interest to us and which we must vigorously oppose, by opposing the weapons of law and legality to those of violence, however legitimate it may be. the other issue that the rapporteur has courageously highlighted is that of the recognition of same-sex marriage. we believe that the right to freedom of the individual in the broadest sense, which is the very meaning of freedom, should also be introduced into legislation. as other colleagues have pointed out, more attention will have to be paid to the work of the commission and the council on human rights. we, the radical members of parliament, have long been denouncing the fact that the lack of action by the european institutions in respect of human rights, both in third countries and in those of the union, too often takes on serious and disastrous characteristics for citizens and for the institutions themselves. articles 6 and 7 of the treaty on european union, as well as the so-called democratic clause, are, first of all, the responsibility of the council and the commission, and are therefore devoid of any meaning. in other but more concrete terms, the principle of respect for and defence of human rights is entirely virtual. on the subject of articles 6 and 7 of the treaty, the european parliament for the first time used the procedure laid down in rule 108 of its rules of procedure to request community action against italy for serious and persistent breaches of human rights and the rule of law in relation to the prolonged and unlawful absence of the plenum, provided for by the constitution, of the parliament and the constitutional court. the violation in italy continues in a dramatic way. a few days ago the italian parliament stabilized the so-called 41 bis, the special detention regime, the application of which we have documented as a real democratic torture: the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. but we shall have to deal with that at another time. in the meantime, the radical members will vote with conviction on mr swiebel's report.
commissioner, you have described this report as wide-ranging and ambitious. i shall start with these two adjectives to propose a few small considerations: it is certainly wide, too wide for the subjects that are being discussed. ambitious? it is too unambitious for the conclusions it reaches, limited to a couple of political objectives, let alone the same ones. the rapporteur puts too many different and too distant ingredients in one shaker to produce a digestible, harmonious cocktail with a line to be proposed for acceptance by all member states: a line containing common and shared principles to inspire legislation and behaviour in the commitment to guarantee fundamental rights for all citizens. in addition to some shared principles, for example in the fight against discrimination and xenophobia, the rapporteur is putting too much emphasis on the freedom chapter, allowing herself to put the police and judicial systems, as well as the information systems, of some member states on the back burner for incidents linked to street riots caused by black blocs and their supporters in white suits. the rapporteur, listening to some fairly imaginative bad advisers, advisers of the party and of the party, squanders and mortifys the opportunity she had to speak seriously about human rights, instead losing herself in empty polemics and in gratuitous accusations, worthy of a low-profile debate: the magistrates of some member countries, the guardians of order, are described as torturers, beating up innocent people. this is unacceptable, and it is out of line with the line of a report as important as this one, just as the family model proposed by the rapporteur is certainly not acceptable, consistent with a personal conviction but in clear contrast with the tendencies of the vast majority of european citizens, who certainly do not see homosexual unions and free adoptions as the ideal formula for building the european society of tomorrow.
mr president, finally a report with a genuine community dimension, although it starts with a technical and specific subject such as the management of the union's external borders. this is a very topical issue, as has been stressed, given that the current external borders will be profoundly changed and extended in may 2004, when the twelve new member states will join the physical and political geography of the current european union. it is therefore only fitting that the model which has been supported so far should be proposed today, on the basis of the experience gained among the 15 current member states before it is opened to new applicants. the rapporteur, mr pirker, has put forward some concrete proposals on how to achieve integrated management of the external borders, without interfering with the territorial sovereignty of individual states, but instead indicating the ideal formulas for harmonious cooperation. this is a very good proposal, which will lead to the setting up of a community border guard in the next few years, but not immediately, but after refining techniques and methods through adequate training of staff and cooperation between the various border guards. the experience of mixed patrols, which, as far as my country, italy, is concerned, has been very successful in this area. these patrols have been carried out on the borders of certain member states, such as france and austria, but also on the borders of third countries, such as switzerland, and on the borders of a candidate country, slovenia. the chapter dealing with the problem of combating illegal immigration is of great innovation: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but the problem is not just for these countries, but for everyone, because thanks to schengen, illegal immigrants who manage to land on the adriatic coast are automatically projected towards many other member states, at least those in the schengen area, which is thus a great opportunity but also a great responsibility. the rapporteur's proposal to call on all countries in some way to contribute and bear the costs of external border controls, whether or not these countries are affected by the borders, is therefore correct. it is clear that for an efficient control and verification service to be in place, especially in the hot spots of the current illegal immigration, a real river in full flow which is pouring in new illegal immigrants even as we speak here, everyone should be involved, because the problem is not only those who are directly involved in this struggle on a daily basis, but also all those who are the natural recipients of these irregular flows.
mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs on their ability to work together, because the logic of the package implies that the reports are in some way interdependent. i would also like to say that the committee i chair has done a good job on this, as always. it is no coincidence that in 2002 the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism published 34 reports on transport, seven of which were devoted to the modernisation of the railways. it is quite clear, however, that certain delays in the council are a matter of concern to the committee, which has made this known in more or less official terms. i have also personally written a letter to the danish presidency and i will repeat the same things to greek minister verelis, who will be visiting the committee next week for a hearing. the first railway package is closely linked to the second railway package and, like the wagons of trains, they have to move forward, otherwise there is a real risk of a sort of railway jam. the second railway package is important, and i would like to say that ours is not a key to an ideological reading in favour of the railways, as we are sometimes reproached with. i think that the case of freight transport is extremely significant. the use of railways continues to decline, despite all the goodwill being expressed. i think that is absolutely unacceptable, given the specific cases which are particularly dear to me, such as the crossing of the alps. unfortunately, there is no real european railway system: we are building it with these directives. it is a bit of a paradox that, if all sovereignty were to disappear, the only thing that would remain for the states in europe would be a sort of railway sovereignty, which we must break down in a european logic.
mr president, i was going to say something quite different, but the remarks of the last two speakers have allowed me to wander off a bit and take up another point. we have heard things which are actually things of the past - and thank god they are now history - where there is only intervention and class struggle, where there is an attempt to build up confrontations. i think that was the wrong way to go. history has condemned these practices, and whoever is late is punished by life, as a very famous man who had his roots in this system and who finally brought it down because he knew it so well, namely president gorbachev, said. we want more environmental protection, a greater shift of goods from road to rail, more equality and thus more protection for the consumer. more protection for consumers: i will give you an example of what happened two days ago in my own country, at the brenner pass, where dangerous transport which today has to be carried by road because the railway is not sufficient for this, caught fire, with a very worrying development for the environment, for the people. we've slipped past the brink of an environmental disaster. that is our intention: we want to make transport safer, and i would like to thank mr jarzembowski in particular, who has been working on these initiatives for many years. we hope that these reports - and his in particular - will be a major step in the right direction. i would also like to thank mrs palacio, who has a special sense of humour and is trying to find a balance. we hope that we can continue on this positive path. (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. mr president, i think that the order of votes is questionable, because i think that amendment no 9 is the one that is the furthest away from the text adopted in committee. i'm still going by the president's decision.
mr president, i have slept very well these last few nights and i have had many dreams. in one of them, at the casino of the palais de l'europe, which does not exist in reality but is in my dreams, at the gaming table sat four players: jarzembowski, sterckx, ainardi and savary. they played very lively and very friendly with each other. mr jarzembowski, dressed as a head coach, was talking to the other players and saying: the railways must be upgraded! it illustrated his report, advocating with great enthusiasm and wisdom the development of railways in europe. he did it so well that he convinced me to vote in favour of his report. what the other players said, i'll say when it's their turn.
in the same dream, mr president, again at the palais de l'europe casino, another player at the table was mr sterckx, who was dressed as a cyclist. why would you do that? who knows? probably the merckx/sterckx sound had me thinking of him as a cyclist, and particularly a very fast cyclist, since merckx won all the races, as we well remember. in fact, mr sterckx, speaking with the others, explained his report by stressing the importance of high speed on europe's railways and in particular the need for high speed trains to have facilities and special amenities for pensioners. now, hearing that, i could not help but vote, the next morning, as i did, in favour of mr sterckx's excellent report.
mr president, in her dream at the palais de l'europe casino, mrs sylviane ainardi was also playing a game of poker, in this case with the other rapporteurs on european railways. she was elegant, beautiful, surrounded by many young knights, but when it was her turn to play cards, she always said: "step, step, step" and to other players who asked her why, she would say: we must avoid interruptions while we play, just as we must avoid interruptions at the borders of europe to change rail systems. see how you're faster in the game if you don't interrupt? i could not therefore of course not vote in favour of the ainardi report.
mr president, mr savary also played in the casino of the palais de l'europe with mr jarzembowski, mr sterckx and mr ainardi, but he was dressed, in my dreams, as a fireman and he said to the others: i'm dressed as a firefighter for two reasons: firstly, because my report is a rescue for rail passengers, who must be safe rail passengers. second, who better than me to ensure railroads are safe? my name is savary: in english the word "safe" is safe, so save, that is save, savary. i'm the best person to make railway safety a reality! in fact, when i read your report, i saw that this was the case and so i decided to vote in favour of mr savary's report on railway safety in particular.
this, mr president, is a revolutionary proposal, my own and that of the party of pensioners, and i hope that it will be listened to very carefully by all the many qualified members of the european parliament here. the markov report regulates, among other things, the working and resting hours of road transport workers. my proposal is as follows: we regulate the hours of work, but we don't regulate the years of retirement in this way. ten years' service, followed by five years' pension; then another ten years of work and five years of retirement; then another ten years of work and five years of retirement? in this way, you could start enjoying your pension safely, for example from 25 to 30 years of age, from 35 to 40 years of age, and so on. i'm not doing the exact math, but i think the concept is clear. i propose that we decide to start collecting pensions and taking time off from work not when we are old, but gradually, during our working lives, as i think i have explained very well.
mr president, i would simply like to say that i voted in favour of this message to the convention on the recognition of the role of the regions and local authorities in the construction of europe, which had been rather silent on this point. in the face of the phenomena of regionalism, devolution and decentralisation that are taking place throughout europe, the importance of the region is in the facts. the napolitano report probably wanted more genuinely federalist solutions, taking the principle of subsidiarity to its deepest and most genuine consequences: this remains a goal to be achieved in the coming years. the report unfortunately betrays the expectation that regional electoral bodies should be set up for the european elections. the request for direct participation of the regions with legislative powers in council meetings was rejected; the proposal to give the regions the right to appeal directly to the court of justice was unfortunately rejected. i think that these are matters which the convention will have to return to for the sake of regionalism.
mr president, i also had a dream last night about mr napolitano. mr napolitano, who is the rapporteur for this document on the role of regional powers, was in my dream the president of the umr, that is to say, of the world union of regions. yes, because in my dream, a one-world government was realized, made up of the regions: the national states had disappeared and the regions had become so important that they formed, together all over the world, the umr, the world union of regions, chaired by mr giorgio napolitano. i know that this is a dream and it will be difficult to make it come true, but since in the dream these regions were no longer fighting each other, as some states unfortunately still do, i hope and wish that, step by step, as is the case in the proposal in the napolitano report, we will really arrive at the umr, the world union of regions. that is why i voted in favour.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report, although i am well aware that it is not a deliberative document but merely a guiding document, and it is not known how it will be received. i hope that the commission and the member states will take account of many of the points that were voted on, although i regret that some fundamental parts were rejected, for example those which provide for the participation of the regions with legislative powers in the european council of ministers. i think it should be a matter for the member states. my political group has already been the promoter of amendments and legislative proposals in this respect in italy, and i hope that the european regions will be able to count more, provided that this discipline must remain, for the most part, within the national states, without interference from the union.
the commission (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, apart from the fact that - as i say - there seems to be a clear dialogue between the greek authorities and the european council, i would like to say that the council of ministers of the european union reached political agreement in december 2002 to put forward a directive on minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers in the member states of the union, on the basis of a commission proposal from may 2001. the formal adoption is still pending from the parliamentary reserve of a member state of the union. however, this directive - which was also supported by the greek government - provides for material facilities for asylum seekers, including accommodation, food and clothing, as well as a daily allowance, to ensure an adequate standard of living and the subsistence of the applicants. states should also inform applicants of the advantages they can enjoy, give them access to the labour market in certain circumstances and ensure that they receive the necessary medical care. they shall also ensure that the level of reception conditions is adequately monitored and controlled. finally, they must ensure that violence is prevented in the premises intended for accommodating applicants, at the border and in accommodation centres. all these measures will be applied in favour of asylum seekers who are allowed to remain in the territory as such, even if they are obliged to remain in a particular place. ladies and gentlemen, greece has joined that agreement and - although the commission will follow this matter - we know that the dialogue between the greek authorities and the european council on these complaints to which the honourable member has referred is continuing.
- mr president, i think mr papayannakis also raised the question of control. in one member state, italy, it is possible for members of parliament to visit prisons and similar institutions at any time of the day or night without prior notice. would the commission be prepared to make a proposal for meps to be able to visit all such institutions and prisons throughout the union?
commission. – the commission fully shares the motives and objectives of the honourable member, in particular in strengthening the pressure for a better respect for human rights by improving the availability of information. our differences are on two points: firstly the eligibility of this specific proposal in terms of the current funding policies and criteria, and secondly the cost of the proposal both in investment and running costs. projects of this nature are foreseen neither in the communication of may 2001 on the european union's role in promoting human rights and democratisation in third countries, nor in the 2002-2004 programming document for the european initiative for democracy and human rights. the programming document which governs the selection of projects sets out eligible themes for support, including freedom of expression for the independent media, which were then refined in the context of programming identification missions to 29 focus countries of the european initiative for democracy and human rights. these refined themes, which effectively excluded the possibility of a project with a regional character, formed the basis of an international call for proposals launched in july 2002 with a deadline of 5 november. it is nevertheless likely that, with future calls proposals, the criteria concerning the selection of projects under the general theme of strengthening democratisation, good governance and the rule of law will be modified to allow projects of a regional nature. in this context it would be possible for an applicant to present a project concerning a ‘voice of europe’. however, this brings me to the problem of cost. any application would be admitted only provided it satisfied the general conditions of eligibility applicable under the published guidelines, including the condition that the grant is to fund specific project activities rather than general operating costs. whichever comparison is drawn, the cost of establishing a radio station would be high and it would probably require permanent annual core funding for which this budget line is an inappropriate instrument. achieving the same objectives by the use of the internet might be a more appropriate way forward.
- commissioner, thank you for that answer which opens up a number of possibilities. i intend to read carefully the written version that will reach me. you did not specifically answer the question of the difference in numbers between the cost of an initiative like voice of america, which costs 130 million dollars, and that of another extremely effective radio, and recognized as such by many in asia, which is radio free asia, which costs only 30 million dollars a year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but my question is more specifically: if our parliament votes for a significant increase in the budget line for human rights, would you be inclined to move to an operational phase of the 'voice of europe' project?
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in financial markets, where market liquidity is closely linked to the confidence of traders in the reliability of payment and securities settlement systems, the inefficient operation of these systems can be a source of risk for the markets themselves. reliable payment and settlement systems require a clear legal framework, rules and procedures governing the holding, transfer, lending of securities and related payments, and the setting of securities-related encumbrances. clearing and settlement, which are essential elements of all securities transactions, are therefore of fundamental importance for the smooth functioning of integrated financial markets. it should be noted, however, that despite the growing foreign securities market, there is still not only a high degree of fragmentation in the eu clearing and settlement infrastructure, but also excessive and certainly uncontrolled crossborder cost incidence. however, to achieve concrete objectives, it is necessary to know the operational situation of the sector in order to make appropriate adjustments. the two largest markets are the united states and europe. the us has chosen the depository trust and clearing corporation, which includes both clearing and settlement systems and is traceable to a single management body, whose proven functionality has resulted in significant cost containment. the european model, with as many as 20 csds, is a fragmented reality, the advantage of which is that competition is limited only to the acquisition of new areas of influence. no price war has ever occurred, as market liquidity is channelled through a single operational player. the examination of the existing framework and the in-depth investigation carried out by the giovannini working group have revealed that a multiplicity of technical, legal and fiscal obstacles are at the origin of the high costs and inefficiency. the removal of technical obstacles should be the first objective to be pursued and can be considered easily achievable. the standardization of computer language, like the standardization of paper documentation, does not require any particular operational effort. the harmonization of legal and fiscal rules is certainly more difficult. the ambitious objective to be achieved would be the establishment of a single securities code, which would provide a real guarantee for traders; but reaching agreement between member states on this is certainly difficult because of the delicate and sensitive issues linked to the diversity of rules in property law and in company and bankruptcy law. the establishment of this code must therefore be seen as a long-term objective. a fact sheet should be drawn up in the near future to inform market participants of the differences between the laws in force in the member states. as regards tax obstacles, the difficulties arise not only from the diversity of systems but also from strong resistance to change and harmonisation on the part of some member states. given the need for a post-trading re-ordering aimed at eliminating the confusion between infrastructure and functions and to cancel out existing natural monopoly positions, a formula for core settlement services operated on the legal basis of a service owned by the user and regulated by a non-profit-making, non-profit-making statute is necessary. this choice would ensure market integrity, easy access for users to services, effective surveillance against operational risk. there could be no distortion of competition, because the guarantee is provided by the fact that the service provider participates in the management of the institution. innovation and technical progress could also be achieved as the formula in paragraph 11 of the report states that non-profit comes after the necessary investment needs have been met. the separation between essential and value-added functions is also considered essential. the latter could in any case be carried out by the csds, but with separate structures, including logistically, through subsidiaries or joint ventures. the clearing and settlement service includes guarantee, margin, clearing, settlement and liquidation activities. a simple reading of the text shows that these are all public utility activities. the value-added services offered by banks or separate depository structures are: securities lending, collateral management, cash management, corporate actions, income management and tax services: all activities of a purely commercial nature. finally, strong cooperation between states is also considered essential for proper surveillance.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a subject of great importance to all european citizens. we are talking about health, about the elderly, and i would say that the health systems of all the member states of the european union are experiencing similar situations, although with different intensities. they are already facing major challenges, particularly in the area of health expenditure containment and coverage. the ageing of the population, advances in medical technology and the growing demand for healthcare services have led to a significant increase in the costs of the healthcare system, sometimes unsustainable for current economies, and of care for the elderly across europe. some figures to illustrate: in the european union, the share of the population aged over 65 will increase from 16.1% in 2000 to 22% in 2025 and 27% in 2050, a third of the population. at the same time, the proportion of the elderly over 80 years, which was 3.6 percent in 2000, is expected to reach 6 percent in 2025 and 10 percent in 2050. although the provision of healthcare and care for the elderly remains essentially a matter for the member states, we realise that such a trend, with its considerable and complex implications, cannot be effectively and comprehensively addressed at national level alone. these issues need to be integrated into the framework of wider european cooperation in order to achieve effective results, as expressed in the principles and objectives of the community action programme on public health and the specific objectives set out in the un action plan. to achieve these objectives, the cooperation of all health care professionals is needed. there is a need for better cooperation in the exchange of information, good practice, research, the creation of a database for the social and health sector, with statistical analysis and projections, the development of common qualitative and quantitative standards, thus defining health indicators and developing common standards for the monitoring of health services. the barcelona european council of march 2002 also stressed the need to establish and develop cooperation between member states in this field, by exchanging good practice and information and by addressing common challenges at european level. the european union has already stressed on several occasions the need to develop a comprehensive strategy that embraces the economic, employment and social implications of demographic ageing, mobilising the full potential of people of all ages and strengthening solidarity between generations. in line with the principle of solidarity and access to care for all, both social protection and the provision of quality health services in the member states will need to be maintained and improved in order to fully achieve the objectives of financial sustainability, accessibility and quality. this should eventually lead to the creation of a single market for health services and products: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. another important aspect to consider is the risk that the objective of financial sustainability is overvalued in relation to the costs of accessibility and quality. solutions should be indicated as soon as possible: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. finally, greater attention should be paid to certain aspects of the development of health and social services for the elderly, in particular those which are not self-sufficient and which represent the major and most important problem, such as the treatment of mental illnesses linked to senility, the maintenance of the autonomy of the person, integration, access to rehabilitation and rehabilitation services, prevention, care and support for families taking care of the elderly, the fight against maltreatment and neglect. the commission yesterday issued its eighth warning to become the world's most competitive economy by 2010: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. well, the aging population knot is a very important knot in this regard. therefore, in the hope of seeing the european parliament soon more actively involved in the elaboration of the broad economic and health policy guidelines, i invite the commission and the council to take account of the decisions contained in this report in preparing the joint summary report for the 2003 spring european council and the european convention, which i believe should include, as a general objective, a high level of health protection. only in this way, with the social europe, will we, i believe, move from the europe of banks and coins to the europe of people and nations. (applause) i would like to thank
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr mario mantovani on his hard work in identifying the difficult challenges facing health care systems and public health policies in the countries of the european union in view of the ageing of the population and, not least, in view of enlargement. although the provision of healthcare in general and care for the elderly in particular is essentially a matter for the member states, wider european cooperation is needed to deal with these problems, given the general state of major difficulties which persists. the difficulties include the shortage of nurses: the need for nurses will be ever greater. the increasingly long life expectancy of europe's growing adult population will pose the difficult problem of staff who will have to assist them, staff who will also have to be increasingly qualified because of the specific nature of the diseases affecting the elderly. the demand for nurses has already seen employment growth twice as high as the average over the last five years: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed. secondly, it is easy to foresee that this shortfall will be felt more strongly when, thanks to enlargement, the mobility of patients from the ceecs, whose health systems offer less than those of the community, will be more accentuated, because recourse to cross-border health services will be natural for them. in this context, the issue of ensuring a high level of human health protection, as set out in article 152 of the treaty of amsterdam and as envisaged in the objectives of the community action programme on public health, which calls, inter alia, for universal and equal access to health services, the continuous improvement of such services and the promotion of the social inclusion of persons with disabilities and the most vulnerable groups, is of particular relevance. quality principles in healthcare are achieved through the creation of postgraduate specialised masters for nurses, funded by european training funds, which encourage higher professional qualifications in key branches such as oncology, transplantation, cardiac surgery and all age-related diseases. with the launch of the master's degree, we guarantee european citizens access to health services, a high level of quality of care and the financial sustainability of care systems, which is one of the three objectives proposed by the barcelona european council. however, to ensure care for all, an initiative by the member states of the european union is needed to raise awareness among young people of the nursing professions. the solution to this problem must be managed in a short time because it affects all member states. it is good to raise awareness of the profession among young people in the member states, but at present there are not enough of them, so that the number of nurses with a degree is far below the needs of the countries. it would therefore be appropriate to extend this opportunity to the ceec diplomas, in order to solve a double problem in the short term: respond to the nursing emergency in the member states and to the demand for work of the many immigrants in europe. it may seem provocative what i am about to say, but i cannot help mentioning another serious problem which concerns the citizens of all european countries, namely the reduction of 500 000 jobs in the metalworking sector over the next four or five years, as i have been informed by an international trade union source. this employment problem could be partly solved by shifting skilled resources from one sector to another. the mobility and retraining of unemployed metalworkers with upper secondary education can be facilitated by providing them with information on nursing. i would like to conclude by inviting everyone to reflect on what i have said in relation to the need to overcome as soon as possible the nursing shortage affecting the european union, the need to respond with postgraduate master's degrees to the quality standards of care required by the community action programme, the need to respond to the specific employment needs of the citizens of the member states with responses such as mobility and retraining and, where this is not sufficient, by using those human resources from the countries of central and eastern europe.
mr president, yesterday the greek presidency said that the priority of its mandate was to make the motto 'our europe' - sharing the future in a community of values - effective. however, values must not only be defined; justice, poverty, peace must be practiced on rough roads. in fact, the more we talk about peace, the more wars are waged; we talk about negotiations and prepare troops. how long will this duplicity last? how long will bullets kill palestinian children, human bombs kill israeli civilians, russian soldiers kill in chechnya, the us wherever it thinks it has an interest, and so on? i can't go on, the world is so big and terrible. rhetorical or pathetic? i'm not going. political and moral indignation, a warning to build a europe without a forked tongue, as one indian chief said while his people were being destroyed and put into reserves. one year after the bonn agreement, there is no doubt that many positive steps have been taken. the commission's figures and the exceptional analyses made by commissioner patten are impressive, and i shall not dwell on them because he has read them very explicitly. we all know that in a situation of such devastation, there are no shortcuts to achieving general interests without destroying specificities; developing civilian infrastructure, rebuilding houses, roads, schools, hospitals; and do not let the returning refugees die of hunger or cold; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i saw for myself the progress that was made this year especially in kabul - schools reopened, girls learning journalism - but at the same time i saw and heard that key players like the military leaders and the united states made possible the failure, which is still visible, to respect human rights. i am not just talking about the abuse and discrimination against women in the workplace, on the streets, in the media, not just in the herat area where the notorious khan is, but across the country; i also speak of social discrimination, favouritism, nepotism, towards everyone but above all and this is mainly the responsibility of the usa in providing arms, aid, political support to military leaders who should be before the international court of justice. helping the central government, the ministry of social affairs the minister for equal opportunities, habiba sarabi, appealed to all of us to also within the european commission to have more help and more support for gender policy, women's policy to make democratic elections possible in 2004: all these things are indispensable. it is also essential, as commissioner patten said, to extend central power to the different areas of the country, to separate above all military power from civilian power, to give strength to the human rights commission, not only to the afghan commission. i met in kabul with representatives of unama who could not travel around the country for fear not only of the warlords but also of the marines, for fear of speaking out and saying what the human rights violations were, of which we were complicit. there is therefore a need to conduct surveys for unama. the passage of time, however, does not help the democratic forces: i am not saying that we should not be able to do this. maybe in 1980 we could have done more. i think that the donor countries should listen more carefully to the voices coming from the government but especially from women's organizations who say forcefully that we must block the power of the warlords, and rebuild in law and democracy, because there can be no democracy if there is torture or massacres like in mazar-i-sharif. europe must continue to play its part; we can 't look in any other direction . we must continue our work and our commitment.
mr president, it is worthwhile to commend president karzai for his efforts to draft a new constitution and for the formation of a national army, which are essential building blocks for the construction of a secular, democratic and functioning state. the data from the petersberg conference are encouraging: 830 million already allocated by europe, with concrete impacts in the areas of health and medicine, education - an education to which girls finally have access today - security, through the removal and treatment of unexploded bombs, agriculture, the recovery of urban spaces, the reconstruction of infrastructure, return and assistance to refugees who finally return to their country. but there is still a long way to go: many funds from europe are still blocked, and a stronger commitment by our governments is needed for the democratic development of afghanistan. a key development problem is the expansion of agriculture, which is taking land away from the cultivation of oats. it is clear at this point that not only the union but also the individual national governments, their agriculture ministers, perhaps also in concert with the national farmers' organisations, must help afghanistan and afghan farmers more urgently to convert their crops, including through the help of technicians and experts in the field. the terrorism emergency remains open and europe must renew its political and moral commitment to help the secular governments of those muslim countries which want to fight fundamentalist extremism. the insiders of the various terrorist networks not only still operate in areas of afghan territory not yet controlled by the government, but also live and operate in neighbouring countries and are functionally linked to areas that have become centres of radiation and recruitment, such as parts of somalia and southeast asia. support for afghanistan goes beyond the purely political or economic principle of international cooperation to become a very concrete challenge in defence of civilization, the dignity of peoples, present and future freedom. as regards the women's issue, this is still a wide and open problem, but it is worth remembering that in afghanistan there are women ministers, such as the minister for the status of women, and that the first counsellor of the afghan embassy in brussels is a woman, who works and actively collaborates with the government to improve the status of women. finally, in this first report on the activities of a free afghanistan, we cannot forget the figure of commander massud and the response of europe to his call for help, just a few months before he was assassinated and before the tragedy of the twin towers. we therefore renew our call on this parliament to establish a sakharov prize of remembrance or, better still, a massud prize, to be awarded to those who have tragically lost their lives in defence of their people and freedom.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is interesting to see certain reconstructions in which we make fun of today, forgetting totally or pretending to forget yesterday, that of the taliban, or, as is done in other contexts, criticizing the actions that will eventually lead to a war in iraq and forgetting the thousands, hundreds of thousands of people who were massacred, tortured and exterminated by the regime of saddam hussein. i say to mrs morgantini that if there are human rights violations in afghanistan today, if we had listened to her and her friends and the international community had refrained, as they asked us to do, from intervening in afghanistan, there would have been no human rights violations in that country simply because there would have been no human rights at all. so i think these ex post lessons should be a reflection of what was there before and what the international community and the karzai government are trying, with great difficulty, to put in place. i would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, a fact which happened two days ago and which i consider extremely important. the afghan government has acceded, ratified the treaty establishing the international criminal court. and it's a remarkable fact, if you think about it, for the afghan reality, when many countries -- unfortunately, starting with the united states -- are against it. i think that this parliament should take note of this and encourage this desire to be fully integrated into the international community, because who knows whether tomorrow that court will be operational to try the crimes that have been committed in that country.
mr president, i should also like to thank the president of the council and commissioner patten for what they have told us here. i too, like other members, was recently in afghanistan with a delegation from the european parliament, and i can testify here to the truth of what commissioner patten told us. let us not forget that we have found a country devastated by 23 years of war and years of drought. the things that have been achieved in the year since the first bonn conference are truly remarkable, and i think we should applaud the determination, the self-sacrifice and the competence of our commission officials in kabul. all of this is true: schools have been opened, some health facilities have been rebuilt; the commission's role is to provide the necessary information to the member states. in this connection, i would ask commissioner patten not to forget this aspect of the specific training of staff, including customs staff, which is fundamental. it is also true, however - and i believe that the last bonn conference has shown this to some extent - that the most committed donor countries are asking the karzai government for some more determination. some criticisms have been made: reforms announced by the karzai government itself are delayed; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. safety is still a serious problem; there is no judicial system; the national defence force is not present; there's no police presence yet. all of this is true. the european union, which has done so much, must therefore insist on this. finally, i would like to make a final point on women's rights. i would like to make the following appeal to the european parliament, which the minister, mrs sarabi, has addressed to us: each donor country has chosen a specific area of intervention; but no one has chosen the specific field of women's rights. it is a pressing appeal to the european union and to all of us not to forget this: there is no way forward and no way out of this situation unless women are involved in this process firsthand.
the rapporteur. mr president, the oral amendment is a measure of a social nature. in paragraph 14 (s), where recognition of assistance to those living in rural communities is mentioned, i would add a mountain letter. this is also a tribute to the international year of mountains and to the many mountains we have in europe.
mr president, i was very pleased to vote in favour of the report by mr dagmar roth-behrendt against animal testing of cosmetics. why did i vote for it? i must say that the fish, which i have been helping and supporting for some time in the reports concerning them, have spread the word that mr fatuzzo helps and listens to animals, and so the news has spread from them to many other animal species. and so many of these creatures have asked me to make sure that in my little, by my vote that these experiments, which they don't like very much, stop. they also asked me to do everything possible so that they don't make fur with their skins: i hope that this will be achieved soon. in the meantime, we have got what i voted for in the conciliation on the roth-behrendt report.
mr president, paragraph 55 of the swiebel report, which was approved by the house, calls in the last two lines for a directive to be adopted as soon as possible on the basis of the treaty of amsterdam to abolish all the other types of discrimination not yet regulated, which are mentioned in article 13, including the prohibition of discrimination against citizens on grounds of age and disability. in italy we still have a law which does not grant an invalidity pension to elderly citizens, while this pension is granted to younger citizens. i believe that when you're sick, it doesn't matter how old you are. has been ill to the same extent; i believe that if you have no income, you are equal, young or old. in particular, i believe that it is discriminatory not to give an invalidity pension to a european citizen just because he is over 65 years old, whereas it is granted earlier, and i therefore very much welcome this report.
mr president, as has been said, by just five votes this parliament has delivered to the news one of the most disappointing, and even shameful, pages of our work in this house: the report was entitled 'on fundamental rights in the european union' and, conversely, it has violated, or is violating, many of the rights most closely associated with citizens. let's think of one of them: the institution of the family, which is, to say the least, distorted by this report; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not able to take account of the needs of the individual. and then, again, the model is proposed of a country - the netherlands, for example - where, in addition to all this, there is official euthanasia and free drugs. if this is the model of society that is emerging from this parliament today, i dissociate myself and dissociate myself. this is the weak point. only two or three follow the dutch model indirectly. there will now be an institutional impasse, because neither the commission nor the council have already said so and are not prepared to accept this approach. we have missed an opportunity to be more coherent and clearer.
in writing. - (it) i believe that the defence of fundamental rights cannot and must not become the war horse of one group or another, but must be the heritage of all citizens. on the contrary, it is clear from the pages of the swiebel report that this important commitment to the rights of all citizens is being transformed into an accusation against some people: against italy in particular and against those who in italy have allowed themselves to vote in a way contrary to what the rapporteur wanted. in the field of defence of the family and the values associated with it, the report adopts a partial position, which is certainly legitimate for a political group, but which cannot and must not become a common position of the european union. beyond the religious aspects - which, however, i believe cannot be completely ignored, given the importance of christian culture in europe - the report completely forgets the strong social and educational value that the traditional couple, considered as the fundamental cell of the social fabric, undeniably has. while it is right to defend the right of individuals to live their relationship in the way that suits them best, the european institutions cannot, in my view, equate this type of relationship with the social institution of the family in the traditional sense. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
mr president, the party of pensioners, which i represent here, wholeheartedly endorses this report on the european union's activities in support of the control of the external borders of our 15 member states, which will soon be 25 and shortly after 27 countries. it is important, in my view, that the european union's economic strength and support be given immediately, especially to these new candidate countries which, in two or four years' time, will constitute the external borders of the union. it is clear that this is the weakness of the frontiers, and it will be the first months, in which these states will be de jure and de facto part of the european union, that will be the most dangerous for a violation of the new european external frontiers.
mr president, many pensioners buy securities in an attempt to make a better life for themselves in their old age. the document which we have approved by mr generoso andria is aimed at these small savers, citizens who do not have much money but for whom it is even more important to have a reduction in expenditure when they invest the few funds at their disposal in securities. i therefore welcome the initiative of this report and the content which my friend, mr generoso andria, has proposed to the house and which the house, with my personal participation, has voted on today.
mr president, the proposals contained in the document we have approved, presented by mr mario mantovani, on the future of health services and care for the elderly, are perfect, absolutely to be approved in every line, which i have done. i would like to stress the importance, in my personal opinion and that of the party of pensioners, which i represent in the european parliament, of more substantial european funds for the development of the technique of remote surgery. today, a surgeon can operate from rome on a patient - mostly elderly patients - who is in finland, or belgium, and vice versa. that means living without frontiers, and here we must give the greatest possible help from europe to all citizens, especially the sick.
mr president, i am pleased to have a grandson, silvio nardini, my sister's son. he does not know that i am nominating him to the european parliament. he's a topgun, as they say in the movies, but with his feet very much on the ground. he said: i was and am in the uae directing air traffic from italy to afghanistan. i'm very happy and proud of what i'm doing, it gives me great satisfaction. this is not war; it is bringing peace and consolidating it where it is needed. that is why i voted even more enthusiastically for this report on afghanistan.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr commissioner, the association agreement between the european union and lebanon marks a step forward in our relations which have now been in existence for ten years. lebanon, as has been mentioned several times, is a country that has experienced 16 years of civil war and has now managed to make its ethnic, cultural and religious pluralism the basis of a process of peace: a complex country that is crucial to its history and its geopolitical location. we hope that the closer relationship which this agreement will bring about will help to make this process irreversible and to mark further progress in respecting human rights and in consolidating democracy and the rule of law. for this reason, the article of the agreement which refers to human rights must be taken seriously by the lebanese authorities and the european institutions. this parliament insists on this point because the economy and trade must be able to progress in tandem with freedom, democracy, the role of women, freedom of information. we welcome the signature by lebanon of the international convention on the rights of women and the convention against torture. we hope that the process of ratification will proceed from signature and, continuing along this path, that the abolition of the death penalty, lebanon's accession to the international criminal court, the truth about the disappeared, and a reformed legal order that distinguishes the limits and role of military jurisdiction will be achieved. this process should be supported by the meda programme, which provides explicit support for the autonomous development of civil society. another crucial issue is the end of the israeli-palestinian conflict, the pacification of the region, which can only find a lasting solution through the establishment of a palestinian state. the israeli withdrawal from lebanon was a very important event, but it did not bring peace. but precisely because peace is never a mechanical achievement but requires a great deal of political will, it is important that, starting with the countries of the region, the will to achieve it is affirmed. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. i would remind you that it is not only the host country's responsibility but also that of the entire international community. it is therefore essential that refugees benefit from the meda programme and that europe is particularly generous in this respect. finally, we hope that the agreement will support the already important economic reforms and trade. today's meeting, however, is also an opportunity for a more general reflection on the euro-mediterranean partnership, as the president of the council has done after the completion of the enlargement process, in the context of the reform process initiated by the convention. today we are called upon to redefine the external relations of the enlarged union and to give europe a more significant role in the world. the partnership, which started in barcelona in 1995, was conceived with 12 countries. today we need a broader and more organic view of this process, including the mediterranean, the balkans, the gulf countries. secondly: what policies? president prodi has repeatedly stated: everything but the institutions the european parliament, for its part, has long been in favour of a euro-mediterranean partnership which includes all the policies we have shared with the accession countries. the call is therefore to go beyond the decisions, important as they are, of the last interministerial conference in valencia. finally, the institutions: in valencia - as you, mr president, have mentioned - it was decided to give the parliamentary forum the status of a proper parliamentary assembly. this step can be very important, and if it is to be successful it should take account of the considerations already made on the geopolitical and policy dimensions. in becoming a true institution, the parliamentary assembly should acquire real powers in the decisions that this process entails and be the active subject for that great meeting of cultures. the most important thing is that it should have the means to make real progress in the field of rights, democracy and freedom.
mr president, there is no doubt that the eu-lebanon association agreement goes beyond the relationship with the lebanese government and assumes an extraordinary importance in the fabric of dialogue and cooperation relations in the mediterranean and the middle east, especially at a time like this, when the winds of war are blowing so strongly and risk undermining the development of cooperation between our peoples and affecting the still vulnerable lebanese government. many years of war, with foreign interventions and invasions and not yet definitively resolved, with syria but also with israel; the european union has been the victim of a civil war that has devastated social and family relations, even though the international community's negligence has done its damage. lebanon's rebirth may lie in that strength that has been its weakness: it is a mixture of cultures and religions, rooted in the country but different from each other. it is important to recognize that the lebanese government has managed to maintain a balance between the parties and to want to rebuild a sovereign country in a difficult democratic process, because there are still clear violations of freedom of expression, human rights, social inequalities and corruption. i am thinking in particular of the situation of the palestinian refugees, who are legally denied any possibility of work, assistance or movement, and it is hypocritical for the lebanese to claim that this is done because the refugees must return to palestine. in this sense, i believe that in developing relations and projects with lebanon, we must insist on finding ways of respecting the agreements and commitments that are made, even if the example of the eu-israel agreement and the flagrant violation by israel of article 2 certainly do not guarantee to other countries that this will be respected. i think it is extremely important that this step be taken, however, in the clear and certain knowledge that it is essential to help the reconstruction of that country. but it is essential that that country rebuilds itself with the clarity of freedom of expression and human rights.
mr president, mr president of the ebrd, mr commissioner, this first decade of the european bank for reconstruction and development has been a time of lights and shadows. mr markov's report tends to paint a very positive picture, especially as regards the last few years, which is understandable in many respects, but in the past, including the recent russian crisis, problems have emerged which have led to unsatisfactory or even bankruptcy results, as in the case of the russian crisis, which involved the ebrd together with many other international financial institutions. this probably stems from one of the main points of contradiction in the institutional activities of the ebrd, which is to promote the market economy through a non-market instrument, i.e. a loan guaranteed by public funds, with the possibility - as the markov report also says - of taking risks that other institutions would not take. this brings us to a very sensitive point in the activities of the ebrd, which i am well aware is well known to the heads of the institutions, namely the risk of the private venture capital being displaced by the ebrd's financing of the development of endogenous credit in these countries. it is a difficult balance to strike, but one which i believe must be carefully managed. the eib's intervention must not end up undermining the growth of a private credit sector. two more points to close: i believe that in future the focus will shift more and more to the neighbouring countries and less and less to the countries which will be joining the european union, precisely because in these countries the risk of displacing the emergence of a private market economy is greater. finally, i address the european union as the majority shareholder of the ebrd: we invest, for example, in ukraine through the ebrd. it is a worthy undertaking, but with one hand we give and with the other we remove the trade restrictions which are very heavy on a country like ukraine: it would be good if both hands agreed on the action.
mr president, commissioner, president of the ebrd, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me congratulate the rapporteur on his careful analysis of the ebrd's activities. the choice of economic activities must be able to combine the local and international dimensions and require the provision of credit to encourage not only the emergence of well-established initiatives in the territory but also their spread to other markets. the task of the ebrd is certainly to strengthen this aspect, but it is more important to seek it out and to strengthen it in the countries with low industrial development which are in greatest need of support and revival. if this objective involves risks and, in some cases, unforeseen losses, it is not necessary to abandon planned initiatives and investments, but to draw on new experience in order to manage credit more carefully and to interpret risks more thoroughly. the bank also takes an ethical approach to its credit management. the institutional commitment is to invest in all countries that are inspired by democratic principles and are committed to promoting the market economy. the first time, the bank asks customers for valid projects at current market prices; it also requires that there are no conflicts of interest or dominant positions in the operational area to be financed and that, in any event, the interests of the community are respected. in the public sector, the ebrd calls for maximum transparency to ensure competition and equal treatment of market participants. the rapporteur's view is commendable and acceptable when he encourages the commission to support small local banks which, in turn, must deal with the management of small loans. at this point, mr president, i would like to sound a warning. the credit system of small banks is disappearing or is shrinking considerably. this is a worrying fact because no economic or financial manoeuvre, however good, can replace the support that small banks have always offered to small and mediumsized enterprises. we must also note that small loans are totally neglected in many member states, particularly in those which are in the process of enlargement, and this is increasing day by day the financial exclusion, which is understood as the existence of serious gaps in the provision of financial services in the form of microcredit in the economically weaker areas, where a form of discrimination based on geographical criteria, red-lining, is taking place. the ebrd, which has already chosen to operate from albania to ukraine, from kazakhstan to moldova, is to help ensure that these marginalised economies are fully integrated into the international economy.
mr president, commissioner, i think we really all have to be grateful to mr martin, not just for the good work he has done, as has been acknowledged by everyone, but because he actually enables all of us to make a stand on this subject of aquaculture. it has been said before: i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the fisheries sector, and that it has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the fisheries sector. as other colleagues have said, it is the numbers that speak: this is a sector where employment is growing; it is a sector that meets a growing demand. it is a sector which alleviates the difficulties of many coastal areas which otherwise would have no alternative. it is also a sector that helps us to fight the battle we face with the decline in the stocks of extractive fisheries. moreover, unlike the fisheries reform, this is an area where the commission and parliament are quite in agreement. i am glad to have heard today from commissioner solbes the appreciation he has for this report, and we can all see that there is a convergence on the issues of food safety, research, the environmental compatibility of this sector. so we are at a good meeting point. i would just like to ask the commissioner to pay more attention to the two points which parliament is making: one, as regards the amendment of the fifg regulation, of the financial regulation, in particular as regards the admission of young people and the conversion of installations; the other, as regards the natural disaster fund. it is not possible, mr commissioner, to affirm the value and usefulness of an economic sector without being consistent in the measures to support it.
mr president, i too am grateful to the rapporteur because i believe that this report will enable us to make a few definitive points: the commission has also been active in the development of aquaculture as a substantial source of supplementary income, especially for fishermen living and working in marginal areas, but also in its capacity to reduce fishing activity and preserve our resources. however, some problems remain, especially for small-scale and artisanal fisheries. conversion to aquaculture needs help because it is expensive: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the financial instrument for fisheries guidance should provide for specific and timely concessional credit measures, otherwise aquaculture will remain a choice for the privileged. the commission's target of 8 000-10 000 additional jobs is an ambitious challenge, but it requires a concrete commitment to promote the economic viability of aquaculture. another objective - one to which this parliament is particularly attentive - is food safety, environmental impact and animal health. this requires a code of conduct with well-defined rules and parameters, and above all, it requires that all products from third countries be subject to our standards of hygiene, food safety and animal welfare. this is not only, as it seems, to avoid unfair competition, but above all to make a real contribution to the quality of our sustainable development.
- you're against it, mrs. myller, but if there are not 32 members opposed to the amendment, it will be put to a vote. (parliament adopted the resolution)
- mr posselt, i think that as far as the location of the next european parliamentary assembly is concerned, it is a little too early. it is appropriate to wait a while before making guidelines and decisions on this matter.
- this concludes voting time. (the sitting was suspended at 12.45 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
madam president, we have been discussing here various human rights violations in north korea, violations which offend our morality and our concept of civilization. but i, having visited this country three times, believe that the most aberrant, the most monstrous form of violation of those rights is that if north korea today had free, democratic elections, as we have here, the current leader kim jong-il would emerge as the winner. this shows, on the one hand, the monstrous ability of the north korean leadership to keep their country isolated from any outside interference - and in today's global world this is not an easy thing - and, on the other hand, the degree of prostration, humiliation to which the population is reduced; the rape, the violence that affects not only the bodies, with hunger and concentration camps, but also the minds, made aseptic, unable to reason, as in the soviet gulags; north koreans reduced to beasts blindly following their leader. this barbaric and at the same time grotesque regime must be contained. i am one of those who believe that the policy pursued by the united states is right, especially in these last days: they have moderated their demands, they have avoided a crisis with south korea, they have engaged china, which is a key country in resolving the crisis in the region. the contribution that europe can make, that we can make, is, i am sorry to say, very little on the political level. we can do more on a humanitarian level, and we must do more: i am not saying that we should not send aid, but we should make sure, as we have said many times, that it reaches the right hands, those who need it. despite various statements and testimonies to the contrary, i am not at all sure that this guarantee exists today: i would very much like to have it, i would very much like the commission to give it to us.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the text we are about to vote on is simply outrageous, odious. the same members, the same colleagues who for two years blocked all the demands from this parliament for milosevic to be indicted, are the same - mr oostlander is not here at the moment - who today are pursuing this 'realistic' policy towards the russian federation and mr putin and who are concealing, whenever possible, the reality of the situation in chechnya, which is a genuine genocide. we say we are disappointed by mr. budanov's acquittal. i think we should, at the very least, be extremely outraged. we regret that we cannot go to chechnya, when this visit has been postponed four times, when it is two years since the european parliament delegation should have gone to chechnya. we get confused, we lose all the clues. we forget that in the years 1940-45 there were acts of resistance in our countries, acts of resistance against the symbols of the occupying power, against vichy, against quisling, against people who collaborated with the occupier. today, it's the attack on the grozny headquarters, which personally, as a nonviolent, i would not have imagined, but which is an act of resistance. and we accuse the chechens, who are targeting the heart of the collaboration with moscow, of carrying out terrorist attacks. these are not terrorist attacks. it was a nest of people who worked for the fsb, and therefore a strategic target for the fighters, for the chechen resistance. we've completely lost all sense of direction. we confuse everything with the term terrorism. this is extremely serious, just as it is extremely serious to advocate a political solution on the one hand and, on the other, to support a referendum which is being organized by the occupier; the european parliament has been very active in the fight against the chechen people, and it has been very active in the fight against the chechen people. we know very well that article 14 (3) has enabled us to draw up blacklists of yugoslav or belarusian personalities and that we can draw up a 'white list' of chechen personalities. if we want to talk about politics, we have to talk politics with political interlocutors. in this context, we are really starting to become accomplices to genocide. it is time for this parliament to wake up. otherwise we will have to repeat the disgraceful things we have experienced with bosnia, with croatia, with kosovo. i think we've already paid enough for that.
mr president, all the statements made by any government or by any government official to point out differences of position and diplomatic incapacity are sudden, whereas diplomacy should have brought us in europe to common or at least homogeneous positions. i therefore regret that instead of seeking a european position, or at least a mediation through a council meeting, we have split into unilateral axes or positions which are of no use either to the cause of peace or to the building of a common foreign policy, a common foreign policy which remains one of the objectives of the work of the convention. the united states is not the only guardian of peace or justice, nor the only one empowered to declare war when it is necessary and inevitable in the interests of the common good. what has happened in the past few days through contradictory statements is serving the cause of the dictator saddam, and not the construction of a difficult path to peace. that is why, mr president, i call on the council, in synergy with the other european institutions, to work towards creating a more serene and cooperative climate between the countries of the union, so that we can reach a single agreement to tackle together the increasingly serious problems we face every day. i thank president berlusconi for the initiative of mediation he has taken in these hours and i hope that everyone will work for peace, just as we all must work to combat terrorism and dictatorships, even at the cost of declaring wars.
mr president, mr high representative, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is a peaceful thing: no to war. you see somebody walking around saying, "yes to war"? all the pope, the anti-pope, the communists, the fascists, all say: no to war. but what is the alternative to "no to war"? in particular, it is the war that is likely to explode and to which you refer in fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty days. the european union's big success, it seems: i think that the european union has finally agreed on something concrete, if i am not mistaken in asking for the inspectors to be given a few more weeks: give them a little more time, a little more money, a little more resources, a little more support. and then, after 20 days, is there a different strategy? what is europe's objective? the alternative to destruction called war, what is it made of, for us and for you? the alternative is there, and it's not peace; there is peace. for the moment there is no war, you say, says my friend jean-marie le pen, for whom the value of freedom, the value of fundamental human rights do not exist. and his opinion! you know, jean-marie says the things he says, and they're suggestive too. you can all go together: jean-marie went to saddam with fini twelve, thirteen, fourteen years ago; now you're all going together. there's a logic to all this, i think. we radicals have put forward a proposal: in four days, we received a "yes" from 66 countries. in italy, up to now, we have had it from fifty-seven members of parliament, half centre-left, half centre-right, including former prime minister andreotti and other personalities who support this proposal. what do we say, what do we put you through? the alternative is called democracy, the alternative is called law and rights, the alternative is to finally put into effect the written international law that is in force, but not in force, as often happens in our country, that international law that in its entirety has now identified a kind of subjective right to freedom and democracy of the living beings in this country, and by this country we mean the global country. we have the choice of what the european union wants, whether there is war or no war, whether saddam goes away because, despite watson, he is accompanied, he basically resigns with a safe passage to the place of his exile, and i would even advise my colleague watson to read the treaty establishing the international criminal court to know that he cannot be called into question in this situation anyway, but what we can and must do is to know that the un, the security council have an obligation to intervene. it's not about changing the dictator, it's about changing the regime. it is necessary in that part of the world where the gun pointed, for good or ill, at saddam's head now gives him only the choice between falling for a coup that his intimates are preparing, shooting himself, killing himself in a bunker, dying in the middle of a massacre or leaving, as has happened to many dictators, accompanied elsewhere. this is the proposal, the "alternative to war". i also told cohn-bendit, and that is: provisional government i put it in quotes un for two or three years, until establishing fundamental rights in that country we take amartya sen for the economy, we take others; interim governments existed in japan, germany, elsewhere -- a government tasked with giving back to the people of iraq and the middle east what their rights have been violently taken away from them. this is the proposal we put forward, and to others we say: peace is absolute, peace is eternal. i think we 're choosing something else: to be alive in freedom, in right, in building a life worth living and not one that is just petrified in the face of the terror of death. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, may we ask what mr solana and mr patten are doing to translate into action their professed will to avoid war, beyond reassessing the need to disarm the awful iraqi regime, beyond formally relying on the security council to do so or even trusting mr powell to testify as an eye witness that bin laden has been bedding with saddam hussein? the problem is that the decision to bomb iraq into a morgue unfit for the dead was taken a long time ago on the potomac. people all over the world have understood this and are angry and are mobilising against it. it is all very well to say that we must announce the role of the united nations. but, may i ask, who is demeaning that role and proclaiming every day that, with or without the united nations, war will be unleashed, probably by 6 march 2003, whatever the security council may or may not say? regarding solid evidence, we do not know for sure if this bloody dictator still has these awful weapons and neither does dr blix. what the united states is asking from saddam hussein, however, is not to prove his innocence but to provide evidence of his own guilt, that is, to put his own neck in the noose to be hanged or be bombed to smithereens. if this were a criminal case, it would be thrown out of any court in this world. so, to adapt the words of mr solana and mr patten, there is quite a lot of ambiguity, obfuscation and the undeclared will to follow the warmongering lead of washington, hoping only that the united nations will provide the desired fig leaf. this, we must say, probably for the last time, is a defining moment for europe. this union must reclaim the moral and rational initiative and, first of all, save itself from some of its leaders.
mr president, i belong to that generation of europeans who have always, even for temporary reasons, seen the united states as our champion of democracy and freedom. the country that had liberated italy and europe from nazi tyranny, the country that for decades led the struggle of western democracies against the threats of the soviet union. it is with sadness and concern that i see the united states today embarking on a path which threatens to deprive it of its moral leadership of the world, although it will certainly have its political and military leadership. the european union has been able to take a very positive attitude towards the arab, islamic and iraqi terrorism, and we have now moved from a position of reasoned firmness to a position of unilateralism, which cannot be accepted without realizing that we are taking the international legal order backwards by many decades. what will we do if tomorrow a china or a russia unilaterally assumes the right to invade a neighbour? is saddam hussein the most dangerous state, or does korea not show that there are greater dangers? and that is why, while reaffirming the great sympathy and value of the united states, we must today tell them, as allies and friends who we truly are, that the path is wrong and that they must stop and listen to the international community. the sadness has increased, however, at the european spectacle, at the spectacle of a europe divided as never before, where the real problems, namely the inability to have a political and strategic vision of the world, are brutally brought to light and where the european differences, legitimate and even just, are then cancelled out by the inability to act together. i am sympathetic to the franco-german rapprochement, even if i do not share all the positions; i am sympathetic to it because it has always been the motor of europe and can be so in the future, but if it does not want to be limited to declarations of words, simply irrelevant, as it has been so far, it must translate into a position that leads, tomorrow, to a european defence policy, because only when europe speaks with one voice will it be as important as the united states.
mr president, we all agree that peace is a good that must be defended with all our might and that it is the duty of all of us to work to prevent war. i too share the messages against war, but for this very reason the international community must recognize itself in the united nations and its decisions, and therefore give strength to the role of the united nations. the choices made by the un up to now have been very clear, mr president, starting with the message sent to saddam hussein: all weapons of mass destruction must be eliminated. if iraq does not respect the will of the international community, armed intervention will be inevitable, which of course must take place only after a decision by the un. so, the floor goes to the iraqi dictator. it's saddam today, who has to prove to the world that he doesn't have banned weapons. if you really want to avoid war, you must tell the inspectors the truth. unfortunately, saddam has so far been opposed to the un representatives. just read hans blix' report to the security council: clear doubts about nerve gas and chemical bombs are emerging. i read it verbatim: on 7 december 2002, iraq presented a declaration of some 12 000 pages to the security council. unfortunately, the statement, which is largely a reprint of earlier documents, does not appear to contain any new elements that would eliminate the questions or reduce their number. the same goes for nerve gas: iraq had guaranteed that the poison had not been weaponized, but unmovic was able to gather different information; there are indications that iraq has produced more than what was declared and that the nerve has been converted for military use. i would like to quote again the report presented by the security council on chemical bombs: 6,500 are missing from the call. i repeat: 6,500 chemical bombs are missing. iraq also stated that it had produced some 8 500 litres of anthrax, which it said it would have disposed of in the summer of 1991. iraq always says the report has provided little evidence for this production and no convincing evidence for its elimination; there are strong indications that iraq has produced more anthrax than it has claimed. and so on and so forth. today, fortunately, saddam is isolated. in addition, we should not underestimate putin's statement yesterday, calling on the iraqi dictator to cooperate with the inspectors, otherwise moscow will also be forced to change its position. the pressure on saddam must be multiplied. that is why i am appealing to those members of the european parliament who are thinking of going to iraq to give up their intention. saddam would use their mission to argue that europe is divided, that there are those on our continent who support him. this instrumentalisation must be avoided at all costs. the choice between war and peace today depends above all on the decisions of saddam hussein, and europe must ensure that the iraqi regime makes itself available to the inspectors. in this very difficult game europe has a duty to play an important role in promoting peace. the union document, approved by the foreign ministers the other day, has shown that divisions can be avoided on our continent, divisions which saddam could exploit to buy time and create further difficulties for the united nations. speaking with one voice, europe persuaded the us to accept a delay and gave the inspectors strength. the old continent can do a great deal for peace, and that is why the initiatives which the italian government is taking in these days must also be followed and supported with great attention. the talks and meetings today, tomorrow and monday could be of great importance, also because i believe that the italian government is carrying messages from the other countries of the european union. the search for peace must not, however, make us forget, mr president, that all of us are committed to defending the values of freedom, tolerance and respect for human dignity, values which were wounded by the attack of 11 september. so it wasn't just the united states that was affected. we've all been affected. today saddam must prove that he is not an accomplice to terrorism, that he has no links with al-qaeda and that he intends to bow to the will of the united nations. i mean, he's responsible for what happens in the next few months. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the high representative began her speech this evening by saying: let us try to address this crisis from the point of view of europe. we must acknowledge his speech, but also the work of the greek presidency, which has played this card with conviction and has achieved, up to now, results that were even unexpected, starting with the agenda and also the timing. i would remind you that we have spoken not only about iraq but also about korea, the middle east and macedonia, all of which are part of a very complex international situation. i believe that this parliament will have no difficulty in following you, mr high representative, on the four points you have mentioned as a european strategy, specifying that, with regard to the role of the united nations, we - in particular the socialist group - believe that there is neither an automaticity in resolution 1441 nor the fact that, should there be a mismatch between declarations and reality, war must necessarily be used. however, to give credibility to the aspiration - which you rightly said was the aspiration of the majority of european citizens - to want neither war nor dictators, i believe that europe must rely more on itself, be more coherent, and above all more united: more consistent in the sense of believing more in their values and being partly proud of them; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. i would like to conclude with a question on this matter: the european union is not prepared to accept the newly created european union, which is not a new europe, but a new europe. and then: what will italy, so praised by my colleague mr tajani, do in the next presidency? how do you see the continuity between the greek and italian presidencies, given that our president of the council, on even days, is on bush's side and on odd days, seems to be more open to the european position?
mr president, mr solana, commissioner patten, i think we are all aware of the responsibility that the world and the european union in it have towards all peoples in order to ensure development, progress and peace. i find the behaviour of those who display a long-standing ideological pacifism, calling themselves champions of peace, childish, as if others were advocates of war. we are all for peace, we are all against war, we are all against weapons of mass destruction. so how do the peace activists plan to eliminate weapons of mass destruction if saddam hussein does not reveal the sites and stockpiles to un inspectors? it is not your responsibility to make the world appear divided, for or against peace: the civilized world, every civilized man, every man who is aware of his own dignity is against war. i therefore ask everyone not to divide this parliament, because division is instrumental on this issue. i am among those who believe that the role of the un should be strengthened and that international policing should be decided by the un, even though it is in need of profound reform. but i am also convinced that we must definitively abandon the logic of yalta and that all the states which have a significant role in the world must participate in discussions on the dangerous situations in the world. we can show our gratitude to the usa in many ways, just as the usa can show its solidarity with europe by avoiding exporting economic myopia driven by selfish blindness. it is a common european and american need to have very strong relations with russia. it was wise to co-opt her into the nato council; we must continue this positive process and involve it in the world's decisions. this is important for the construction of europe, which must continue to progressively associate the balkans and to assess all other requests for membership. i would like to stress again that the decision of the arab league to approve the un resolution is important, just as it is important that the states governing the peoples of the muslim religion approve this resolution, because we must isolate fundamentalism, fundamentalism, totalitarianism, imperialism. we must tell the world that islam is a religion to be respected and that terrorism, which is born of fundamentalism, must be condemned without reservation and fought. today it is not possible to rule out an international police operation to disarm saddam hussein, but this must be done following a decision by the un, after having experienced every attempt made by the inspectors to carry out a bloodless operation, as requested by mr morillon. i also think we should thank the united states for keeping the spotlight on the iraq problem and for deploying a powerful military machine ready to intervene today. the situation is perfectly in line with the american logic and will probably serve to avoid armed confrontation if iraq creates the conditions for peace. that is why europe is so far dependent on the united states, and why it must find its place in the world, not only by creating a rapid reaction force but, above all, by strongly coordinating its foreign policy. we must make a commitment to find a sense of the european dimension, not just in iraq but in all matters. that is why i think we should ask ariel sharon, today, with the strength of the positions given to him by the voters, to join an international conference on the middle east, to try to find a peaceful settlement of all the areas which must give priority to the abandonment of the culture of hatred in order to cultivate mutual respect and the healing of the states. europe's role today is important and will become increasingly so if it succeeds in involving not only russia but also the american continent in western culture, in the commitment to respect freedom and, at the same time, in the affirmation of the principle of solidarity. this culture of ours will have to face titanic challenges and it can do so if it is fully conscious of its responsibility to humanity.
mr president, i am pleased to note that on the north korea issue both the countries of the european union and parliament have reached a common position more easily than on iraq. it is a demonstration, i believe, that the danger posed by korea to global security is felt to be more serious, more real, and this was emphasized this afternoon by both commissioner patten and high representative solana. of course, military action to destroy nuclear installations in korea is out of the question. the commissioner, in his history of events, which we who deal with these problems already know well, spoke of a possible american attack. i think it 's out of the question . there would be a danger of war, possibly even nuclear war, on the korean peninsula; the european union has a duty to help the people of iraq, and to help the people of iraq. first, the isolation of north korea; second, diplomacy, the search for dialogue. the united states, which was for isolation at the beginning of the crisis, now seems to be leaning towards dialogue. i think that this is something that the members who were here a short while ago and who have now left the chamber holding up signs saying 'no to war' would agree with, not realizing that by doing so they are making war more likely. every initiative that supports saddam's arguments makes him more intransigent and more reluctant to give in to our demands, to our pressures. now, in dealing with north korea, we must avoid two mistakes: first, falling into the trap of pyongyang, which is trying to insinuate a wedge between the united states and south korea, an operation facilitated by the fact that relations between the north and the south have not been so good for a long time, so much so that the outgoing president went so far as to declare that kim jong-il is a very intelligent person, whereas, judging from where he has brought his country, from how his people, his population live, one would be led to think the opposite; second, to make other countries, other would-be dictators, like kim jong-il and there are , believe that they can just violate non-proliferation agreements and then be rewarded by the united states with aid and assistance. but in negotiating with north korea, there are two conditions that must be met: first, we cannot tolerate the existence of a military nuclear programme in that country; secondly, any agreement must include very strict and invasive control measures to avoid being fooled again by north korea. on this basis, the conference, on the initiative of the european union, which we propose in our joint resolution, would be very useful. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i love criticism and i am sorry that i am also a victim of pessimism about the future of the world at the moment. beyond our loud declarations of principle, human rights violations involve too many, too many countries: chechnya, china, african countries at war, israel, the us with the death penalty, and so on. responsibility lies not only with those who violate these rights but also with those who assist and fail to intervene in the effective application of international law. in this sense, unhcr's work is often conducted in the indifference of governments, and the guidance is a dead letter. i feel, like many of you, indignation when fundamental human rights - the right to life, freedom of thought and movement - are trampled even in countries that call themselves democratic; and today, illiberal and deadly actions are being carried out in the name of the war on terrorism, which must be fought, and i am thinking of the massacre in mazar-i-sharif. i would like to see a practice adopted in march which would ensure that israel, for example, which is a signatory, complies with the geneva convention, if not with the un resolutions on ending military occupation. collective punishment, destruction of homes, schools, hospitals, workshops, shops, uprooting of olive trees, arbitrary arrests, torture, extrajudicial killings, vandalism and theft of israeli soldiers, which i myself witnessed in ramallah, are the tragic daily reality in palestine, as are attacks on civilians in israel: 350 palestinian children have been killed in the last two years and 80 israeli children, innocent people who are paying for our inaction. we have the opportunity to do so, but often we use two weights and two measures: it's our alliances that count, not our values. europe is founded on the principles of democracy and the rule of law: if we are not consistent, first of all in the european context, using all our means, including the suspension of association agreements with countries whose human rights violations are clear, what credibility do we have as promoters of these rights at the un? the unhcr's financial and human resources need to be properly allocated to allow for greater effectiveness. at the march conference we must take concrete decisions, for example the deployment of a peaceful intervention force in the palestinian territories to protect the civilian population; we must not allow israel to obstruct or even fire on humanitarian missions. the resolution we are voting on sets out priorities and commitments - for example, the functioning of the international tribunal, the monitoring of rights in iran and the cooperation of the institutions with civil society associations and ngos - that are effective and valuable in strengthening education and respect for human rights and democracy.
mr president, i would like to draw the attention of the council and the commission to certain issues, to certain dossiers which have been widely reported in the international press and which, on the other hand, often seem to be somewhat neglected in our political activity. the first concerns an african country torn apart by daily acts of violation of the most fundamental human rights, namely zimbabwe, where a head of government and a regime violently and ferociously racist against the settlers, against farmers of european origin, have given rise to a series of behaviours which, together with those affecting the democratic rights of the local african opposition to this regime, put this country really totally outside the area of democracy. it is astonishing that our european authorities seem to be bogged down in a debate, as if there were a doubt as to whether or not to allow the head of this bloody and violent regime which tramples on human rights to participate in the franco-african talks in paris next february, or in the euro-african talks in lisbon, scheduled for april. i believe that the council and the commission must act very decisively, as i believe that they must not be overlooked by a committee which has its motivation in the defence of human rights, a series of violent behaviour... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i appreciated the reference in the words of the council representative to a serene and pragmatic position, and i am thinking above all of the need for pragmatism, for example by calling for the ratification of all international conventions, which are the operational instruments available to states and citizens for the protection of their human rights. i would like to mention two in particular, which are considered particularly marginal: the convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families and the convention on the elimination of racial discrimination. i think it is useful to insist on a moratorium on the death penalty, also because we realize that, beyond all fatalism, beyond all inevitable fate, it is even possible to convince some governors of the united states of the futility of this barbaric practice: the governor of illinois is showing us, with 167 commuted sentences, that this is a battle we can win. we call on the european union, above all, to fight so that there are no free zones in the protection of human rights. a free zone can be the fight against terrorism, which must be based on the respect of international humanitarian law. another free zone may be the fact that the rome treaty for the international criminal court continues to be regarded by some countries, the united states first of all, as a completely marginal matter. the strength and effectiveness of this treaty is threatened to be weakened by the behaviour of the united states and the choice of bilateral agreements with certain countries. finally, mr president, i would like us to take to geneva a conviction which i hope we all share, namely that the first and highest defence of human rights is achieved by avoiding the disgrace, the shame and the violence of war.
president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that we have welcomed with interest, almost with a little passion, the choices which have been made in recent times and which are now set out in these documents with regard to public participation. the public is understood in the sense of public structures, public institutions, and here instead the word public is understood as an expression of participation of citizens, associations in this process: the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is a process that is not new, a process that has already been mentioned in previous acts of the european union and which has initiated an assessment by citizens, within certain limits, of transparency, objectivity and their interest in environmental problems being dealt with in a certain way. today, we are faced with something more, something different, and that is positive. what is actually happening through this process? it is hoped that the stimulus to act will be given even before the moment of decision will be passed on to those who are closest to the territory, to the inhabited centre, to nature, and that it will then be collected and transformed and handed down in guiding acts, prescriptive acts, if necessary acts of repression, bound by certain rules, by those who have the authority to do so. in essence, it is a question of giving the citizen the right to intervene in a field which affects him in any case, even if he does not want to, because the consequences of environmental damage fall mainly on the citizen. i should like to conclude by saying that it will not be easy to harmonize the various national laws with the european regulations and directives.
- colleagues, we are resuming our work. i was warned the commissioner would be very late. although we are sorry, we cannot waste half our morning waiting for it, so we begin the discussion with the speakers present.
- the agenda calls for a commission statement on world hunger and the removal of trade barriers with the world's poorest countries. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no one among us who does not see that the world is divided by a deep dividing line between those who can eat and those who cannot, between those who can read and write and those who cannot, between those who can access health care and those who cannot. statistical reports multiply: the most recent, from the world food programme, warns that in the next few months, 38 million people could die from lack of food, of clean water, of medicine. yet we must say it openly the international community is still not doing enough: this is not the central theme of the political agenda, as it should be. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in the future, historians will recognize that our civilization bears a very grave responsibility if we do not change the order and timing of our actions, if we are not able to govern the processes of globalization in the name of environmental and social sustainability. let's think about diseases that are related to poverty, malaria, tuberculosis. think of aids, a scourge that has already killed 25 million people, the 14,000 people worldwide who are infected with hiv every day. prevention is essential, but it is not everything. it's going to be hard to make excuses, one day, for the fact that we can't treat 95 percent of the people with aids. it will seem like a real crime, considering that medicine today can do a lot to turn it from a certain condemnation to a chronic disease and, most importantly, to reduce mother-to-child transmission. the european union must therefore take strong action against the united states to ensure that an agreement is finally reached which excludes intellectual property rights and patentability for those medicines which, if used freely, will save the lives of millions of people: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the decision to give free access to the european market to products from the least developed countries is also important. the european union now has the task of bringing the principles and positions we are discussing today to every international forum, starting with the world trade organisation. only then, with new global governance, with more participation and transparency, with concrete decisions and actions, can we fight against hunger and poverty and overcome this greatest challenge facing humanity.
mr president, as the world's attention is focused on the enormous crisis in iraq, it is the duty of our parliament and all people of good will to give priority to the fight against hunger, as the european parliament is trying to do today, also in the light of the disappointing results of the latest conferences and international meetings. i would also like to mention, quite frankly, the difficulty that a genuine push, which is being made by many non-governmental organizations, for young people to make a change and for critical associationism to be translated into a positive push for change, for reforms. i would remind you of the recent statements by the president of the world bank, james wolfensohn, who called on the institutions to do more and on civil society to focus the critical thrust towards the shortcomings of globalisation in a positive direction, with significant goals. i would point out that, in the instrument before parliament today, greater attention should be paid to the appalling situation in parts of africa, particularly in ethiopia, where millions of people are facing real danger. it is clear to all, and it is clearly stated in the document we are about to adopt, that the situation can only be improved by correcting and modifying the structural errors and the appalling inadequacies of so many governments which have kept spending in the wrong direction, despite the fact that experience has shown that it is necessary, in the light of the facts, to reorient actions to eradicate the roots of poverty, the roots of hunger, malnutrition, lack of information, which then lead to a terrible crisis from the point of view of health, as well as conditions of lack of access to schooling, training for tens or hundreds of millions of people; it is also clear to everyone that the trade barrier is in many cases, mr president, another crucial element to be removed: more freedom, therefore, more competition, more opportunities, and urgent humanitarian action. this is the effort of the european parliament, and i think we should all join in today.
- the commissioner finally overcame the traffic difficulties and joined us. i think it would be better if he could hear the debate to the end and then give him the floor to comment on the speeches he is now going to hear directly.
mr president, i shall be glad to hear commissioner nielson's words, although i think we should have discussed them with commissioner lamy today. in a question i put to the commission, which was signed by a great many colleagues, to whom i am grateful, and which then led us to today's debate, a problem was at the centre, namely the problem we have faced and are facing in part of the link between trade protectionism and world hunger and poverty. you see, i believe that opening up markets is much more politically costly than giving aid. in my view, too many plans are being discussed in today's debate. i think it would be better to concentrate on this and to press the commission on it. opening up the markets means calling into question the sales positions of very powerful lobbies, in particular the agricultural lobby in europe and the united states, the textile lobby in europe and the united states, and so on. it is a difficult policy, much more difficult, i repeat, than granting aid, which perhaps no one, i am talking about taxpayers, is aware of. but it is by opening up markets, much more than by granting aid, that we can offer hundreds of millions of people a real and lasting chance to free themselves from hunger and poverty and to lay the structural, even legal, foundations for economic growth - but also civil growth - in freedom and democracy. the european union is not doing enough, and we must say so. it's playing the game with the united states, but it's not doing enough: the commission has not done enough in doha, it is not doing enough in the proposal for the so-called modalities for the round of negotiations on trade in agricultural products, which doha will follow, by maintaining too high levels of protection, by still providing for tariffs that are going to fall too far down the road. this resolution is a compromise resolution, and it suffers from that fact: let's just say that the device is 27 points, so it contains all the human knowledge about world hunger, aids, poverty, and so on. it retains some important points, one in particular: the request to the commission to speed up the implementation of the everything but arms protocol by 2003; we have made a worthy commitment to liberalise our markets for all products except arms for the 48 poorest countries in the world, but we have said that for three key products - bananas, rice and sugar - we will postpone the end of tariffs until 2009. if this makes sense, and it does for the fight against poverty, please let's do it now!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the statistics are now showing a dramatic picture. but beyond the numbers, i think we should be impressed by the trend these statistics are heralding: this population of potential death row inmates, in fact, despite humanity's efforts, continues to increase. statistics show that it has more than doubled in the last 30 years, and that is what we really have to worry about. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of aids, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which has been very helpful in this respect. this endemic situation of poverty, hunger and disease is made even more acute by the chronic economic and social crises which are gripping these countries in a spiral with no way out. the commitment of governments and individuals to achieve self-sufficiency in these countries is no longer enough, it barely copes with the contingency, the daily emergency. the economies thus fall back under the weight of public and international debts. to cope with these emergencies, the european union has opened its markets, as we know, and has not only expressed solidarity but also provided direct aid. the efforts of many governments to reduce or cancel the debts incurred by these countries in the past are still not enough. in this connection i would like to recall a passage which has been rather neglected: at the g8 in genoa in july 2001, on the initiative of the italian government, the summit of the most developed countries was preceded by a meeting with a large group of representatives of countries affected by the problems of public debt, hunger and poverty. well, it wasn't just a symbolic or ritual gesture. on that day, almost a third of the huge, huge public debt of these countries was forgiven. unfortunately, this result went unnoticed in the face of the street riots that catalyzed the entire importance of the mass media. finally, i should like to say a word in this dramatic context to the precious and irreplaceable role of the non-governmental organizations in all the community and non-community countries, which have always been at the forefront of this war against hunger and death from malnutrition and aids. the commission must seriously strengthen the programmes for them. it must be said that these volunteers alone are carrying out a much more important action, in terms of quality and consistency, than all the western governments, but above all also because of the spirit they are able to transmit in this commitment, where they bring resources and solidarity, strong in the conviction, mr president, that no one can say that he is free and happy if others are not around him.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr wijkman, on his excellent report and his practical contribution to the fight against poverty-related diseases, a report which was unanimously approved by the committee on development. this further confirms the need to speed up the adoption of this proposal for a regulation, as it now appears, already at first reading, to allow its rapid application, in line with the responsibilities of the european union towards developing countries. this contribution, although not entirely satisfactory, is certainly a significant contribution to the recently created global fund for the fight against aids, tuberculosis and malaria, a fund which was also strongly supported by the italian president of the council at the g8 in genoa, and i would add that it can be used in record time compared to the times to which we are often accustomed. but the situation is still alarming and there is no time to lose: and we can, i think, do a lot more than that. i repeat again and again that a coordinated approach between development cooperation, research and health policies is needed to combat these diseases, including through the development of health systems in third countries. the data are known to all, and among them i remember one: every day, 12 to 14 thousand people worldwide contract the aids virus. as my colleague deva said, it is a disease that is now coming into our home too: just think of the thousands of children in romania who have contracted this virus. so while the problem is global, it is particularly acute in developing countries. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget, but i would like to say that the commission has taken a decision on the budget. the problem of medicines, the cost of medicines and access to care and medicines. is it possible that today only 10 percent of research, both public and private, is devoted to these diseases, of which 90 percent affect developing populations? i wonder what has become of my request, made with my colleague, mr tajani, more than two years ago, to urge, right here in this house, the development of a joint plan, in collaboration with the pharmaceutical companies, more focused on the fight against poverty-related diseases. i believe that, given the scale of the phenomenon and its transnational nature - and that it is now reaching our own homes - these poverty-related diseases require a systematic response from the entire international community.
mr president, what an honor! i had the pleasure of being followed in my voting statements by your excellency as well. i have also learned that i will be followed today in the explanations of vote on the iraq report by another great leader who will make his own oral explanation of vote. i therefore welcome mr marco pannella to speak on iraq. a great leader follows mr. fatuzzo: well, that's certainly a pleasure. as regards the mulder report, i should like to explain what 'settling of accounts' means in english: 'liquidation' means 'to liquefy, to make disappear, to liquefy'; 'counts' is a title of nobility; so, "settling accounts" means "getting rid of the nobles". so, is it a story against the monarchy? while i was thinking about this, i spilled it on my pants. but is this report - which actually seeks to recover the €2 245 million stolen from europe - not also a fantasy?
as i said, mr president, this morning i was drinking coffee in the members' bar on the third floor. i forget to put sugar in it. how bitter this coffee is! but then i thought: "how sweet it will be to vote for the korhola report, which will allow the pensioners' associations to be informed when the centre of milan will be closed to car traffic to make the environment cleaner, and pensioners will then be able, after consultation, to ask to be able, with their car, to go to the doctor to be treated, even when these decisions are taken! "
this morning, mr president, as i left the hotel where i am staying here in brussels, on the chaussée de vleurgat, it was 7.30 a.m. and it was snowing. the snow was falling in big flakes. "what a beautiful landscape, what a fairy-tale landscape!" i said to myself. and then: 'fatuzzo, you must vote for mrs hautala's report, which calls for quality petrol, which will make us live in better environments. i wonder, then, if mr hautala, with this report, will not be able to make us live in the fairy-tale landscape of his own region, his own finland, throughout europe!
among the comics i read as a boy, mr president, there was one whose hero - a hero of the wild west named pecos bill - had the same look, the same figure, the same face as mr wijkman. this pecos bill was a hero, and i must say that mr wijkman, who has presented this report, is a pecos bill, a hero of the wild west, because he is asking for funds to be given to the states where so many people are getting sick because of their poverty. and all of us who voted for it, as i did, are pecos bill and calamity jane. so how can we conclude this explanation of vote, mr president, except by saying: "yippee-ya-yay yippee-ya-yoo"? what is that?
this report is too important, mr president, to be voted on without consulting the elderly and the pensioners who, with the party of the pensioners, have brought me to this important parliament by voting for me. all these old people have said to me: "fatuzzo, fatuzzo, fatuzzo, how little memory many deputies have, how little memory many people have! they have forgotten when the united states, britain and others, in the second world war, saved italians, germans, japanese, etc., from so many dictatorships and so many dictators, who would be well off if they were cut off before they did any damage, before they committed their injustices, which we all know!" (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this vote by the european parliament has three results, and one result only: firstly, it is continuing the policy of munich, which is to make peace with dictators and war with one's own democratic countries. secondly, there is an attempt to divide europe from america, from the united states. thirdly, the attempt to divide europe: it's the ollenhauer germans, not the adenauer ones; the french are not schuman's, but debré's and anti-european gollism's. these are the three connotations. we say: "freedom for iraq! the european parliament, the americans are right: you are old europe! we will change it for freedom, democracy, law and therefore for peace, from the communist, nationalist, clerical, fundamentalist and eternal one!
mr president, i voted with conviction against the resolution on iraq, which was adopted by a red-green coalition in the name of that young europe of free peoples who do not recognize themselves in the old, compromising politics, in a false and hypocritical pacifism that closes its eyes to the terrible threat to the security of our europe, represented by the saddam regime, against which we face a real clash of civilizations. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the matter by the end of the year. in the face of this, europe has a moral and political duty to take its stand on the side of the freedom of the peoples and against the looming threat posed by the terrible weapons of extermination, namely islamic terrorism, to which saddam's regime is subtly linked.
the report by mr mccartin aims to reduce fraud and fraudulent use of european funds: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of europe. i was thinking this morning, as i was going to the café - which i have already mentioned many times today - about how to explain the vote in favour of the mccartin report. i closed my eyes for a moment and saw the bassotti band walking through the corridors of the european parliament, and then i was inspired to explain the vote in favour and, above all, to make a suggestion. i suggest that europe should ask the bassotti gang - that is, the swindlers themselves, those who swindle our money - how to avoid being swindled in the future by paying them regularly, on a payroll, the fair share they deserve. perhaps this is the only way to defeat the fraud that is being carried out to the detriment of europe's budget. and now, enjoy your meal!
mr president, a very serious matter, a very serious situation, is the situation in cambodia. despite the seriousness of the anti-thai riots in cambodia and the responsibility of mr hun sen for these events, at least in their management, it is not clear whether the political groups have decided to take up this issue at our next session. i think that parliament should intervene sooner, because what is at stake is democracy, the consolidation of democracy in this country. i would therefore ask you, mr president, to write to the president of the cambodian parliament to tell him how much importance the european parliament and the european union in general attach to this situation. i have also asked the chairman of the delegation for relations with the asean countries, mr nassauer, to invite the cambodian ambassador to strasbourg this week. i hope he can come. i think we should support this country, if we don't want to risk a counter-revolution.
mr president, this was the last time that the porto alegre social forum and the world economic forum met on the same dates. the porto alegre forum was held in a context of mobilization and also agitation against the possible conflict in iraq, and the davos economic forum was concerned about the future of the world in an atmosphere which one very authoritative commentator described as more sad than ever. i think it was very significant from this point of view that the dialogue, which has been very lacking between these two events, was represented by the presence of brazilian president lula da silva, who in both cases supported the need for broad structural reforms - the same as he has committed himself to in his country - of the world economic order, condemning without any reticence the rhetoric of free trade at any cost, which in reality only applies to poor countries, since rich countries can afford to be protectionist whenever and however they want. even for those who firmly believe that the union's role on the international scene is not to be a vassal but to work for democratic globalisation, it is clear that the election of president lula and his government represents an element of hope and enormous expectation, which will certainly not have escaped you, commissioner lamy, since you were in brazil immediately after the porto alegre days. in porto alegre the movements confirmed their vocation to become a sort of outpost of an attentive and active world public opinion, and this was also very clear to the 700 members of parliament who met there and agreed on an agenda which i think it is worth recalling here. first of all, the mobilization against the war: four brazilian parliamentarians took part in the much-maligned delegation to iraq and there was a very broad support for initiatives to get parliamentary debates a little bit everywhere in the world, in addition to the events scheduled for february 15. however, the challenge which we consider particularly relevant for our institution and for the european union is that of the cancún conference and the reform of the international financial institutions. unlike the iraq question, europe exists on this issue and you, commissioner lamy, represent it very authoritatively. europe can make a difference. what we ask of you is simple and important: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i don't think you should be afraid of that. the courage is needed to take positions that are sometimes uncomfortable but which can make it clear that the european union is not following the united states in its footsteps and is taking its global responsibility seriously: for example, do not go back, commissioner, on the agreements you reached in doha on the question of medicines and on trips.
mr president, commissioner, i will not repeat what i have already said about globalisation and the supposedly neoliberal model. i 'm trying to get to the bottom of this . the point is that what we can do, what europe can do to answer so many sacrosanct questions is to fight on one front: the open front, which is more sensitive to north-south relations and to free, or create the conditions for freeing, hundreds of millions of people from hunger and poverty, is the open front of protectionism, regardless of the slogans, the many things that have been said even now. when you say, for example, "the rich can still be protectionist", you are saying something that is sacrosanct, but we saw it in doha: to do protectionism for rich countries means to talk about social clauses, to talk about environmental clauses, to talk about food security and to use these tools - as in doha we were confronted by indonesia, brazil, india - to do protectionism. please don't give us milk, don't give us your agricultural products, because it's unfair competition against peruvian farmers. practice what you ask us to do, open the markets. open the markets because trade means work. if we can't place our products we will have more poor men and women: that is what president toledo of peru asked us to do a month and a half or two months ago in this chamber in a solemn session. i think we have to answer these questions. i take advantage of the presence of commissioner lamy to say that the modalities for the post-doha round of negotiations on agriculture, presented by the european union, are too timid. we need to be braver. we must not give the united states the credit we are giving it for being the true liberalisers of agricultural trade. the united states passed its farmer's bill last spring: the commission has already made a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. i think that on this point europe must be much more courageous, if all that we say is true, if all the attention we have, and others would not have, to the third world countries is true. this is a concrete political choice that must be made, knowing that going against protectionism has a cost. it 's not a nice word that everyone can use . we must challenge the textile lobby, the farmers' lobby. do we have the courage to do this, or don't we?
mr president, not only because i was in porto alegre and not in davos, but also for other reasons, i believe that of the two forums held at the end of january, the one in porto alegre was certainly the most significant. it outlined a series of positive proposals for global policies on the environment, peace and freedom of opinion, the fight against hunger and disease. in particular, it is important that the european parliament takes account of what was said at the forum about the forthcoming work in cancún of the world trade organisation. we know that an agreement on services is in the offing, but we do not yet know what services will be covered by the agreement, with a view to their being subject to the rules of free international competition. the concern of the forum, and i believe also of this parliament, is that among the services to be liberalised there may be some basic social services such as education, health or some essential collective goods such as water. any subordination of such services to the rules of the market would violate fundamental rights enshrined in the charter of nice and other solemn international treaties. the commission should inform this parliament in advance of the list it intends to propose and support in cancún, so that it can be evaluated and the voice of european citizens can be heard on these very sensitive issues. the forum also recognised and enthusiastically welcomed the possibility of the european union becoming a model for other structures of supranational and regional democratic governance, primarily as a tool for conflict mitigation and peace building. it is not a matter of indifference from this point of view that the porto alegre forum was held in brazil and that president lula has now spoken. the european union can not only become the model for a similar political initiative in latin america, but its very existence and independent international character can receive a decisive impetus in a world where, thanks in part to president lula and latin america, the multipolarism is developing, which these days seems to be put to the test by the plans for a unilateral war on iraq by the united states and some of its most loyal allies.
the commissioner, i am sure that the subject under discussion tonight is one of the great themes of world and european politics. for example, the first is that world agricultural trade and the negotiations which define and will define its aspects and procedures represent the moment of confrontation between the liberalization of markets and the will of governments to pursue the objectives of protectionist agricultural policies which go beyond mere production and which also invest the so-called non-trade aspects, such as environmental protection, food security, the protection and promotion of quality, the safeguarding of rural areas. we have listened to you carefully tonight, commissioner, and it is clear from your words that the european union has expressed a strong desire to negotiate an agreement for further liberalisation of trade in agricultural products. but we believe that the agreement must be balanced and that it must be a win-win agreement. i think this is also the position repeatedly supported by commissioner fischler for community agricultural policies, who, not more than a week ago, in the committee on agriculture stressed that the rules which will emerge from the new negotiating rounds next autumn must be equal and fair for all. the idea that emerges of reducing export subsidies is certainly an attractive one, and one that can certainly be supported, but only if other subsidies that distort international trade are also regulated in the same way. and then we have another big political theme that runs through tonight's theme: we need a holistic view of the system. the current economic context, which will involve and capture future scenarios in the agricultural sector, cannot be limited to international trade, because international trade is directly involved in the proposal for a revision of the community's agricultural policy. what was supposed to be a mid-term review of the analysis has become a real form in which european agriculture is given a new look. the community's policy guidelines in this area, in addition to looking at the market as an instrument of economic development, are directed at consumer protection in europe: the european food safety authority has recently introduced a new approach to food safety. this principle of food safety has been brought up and acquired at the wto level as well, but it has been acquired as an idea; the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the quality of our products is protected. production costs in the european agricultural economy differ significantly from those in developing countries, as standards of quality, safety and hygiene are different. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one. in a globalised world, european farmers must invest in the quality of their products in order to win over particular market segments that are sensitive to new consumer demands. production standards have now been refined towards traceability of production from the stable to the table. in this sense, the possibility of marketing european agri-food production on a world scale must go hand in hand with the economic development of the less wealthy countries, with mutual respect for local agri-food production, in a global context of balanced growth, regulated both by the economy and by certain rules, but above all by the common sense of growth that benefits everyone at the expense of no one. the basic theme, therefore, which we have to deal with at this moment is that in the proposal which you, commissioner, have presented to us tonight, there is a principle: we need a common agricultural policy which continues the forms we have known. in his words and in the documents before us there is a principle which we accept with great difficulty: the commission's proposal for a mid-term review, which includes the decoupling and abolition of the blue box, takes precedence over the negotiating procedures in the wto, which instead provide for an attempt to defend the aid in the blue box introduced by the mcsharry reform. this implies the need to reconsider the negotiating procedures, effectively tearing up the blue box chapter and thus definitively renouncing the possibility of defending direct payments in a multilateral context. if this were to happen, we believe that it would be the beginning of a demobilization of the european agricultural sector, which is strategic not only for the sector as such but for the whole european economy.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank commissioner vitorino for this opening statement, which paves the way for my report. the directive we are discussing represents a real leap forward in the debate on citizenship of the union and the free movement of persons. for the first time, citizens are being recognized as having rights, not as subjects of economic interest but as persons, as holders of subjective rights which, together with objective rights, constitute european citizenship. the rights of free movement and residence are directly derived from the european treaty, come from a long way back, as the commissioner has said, and confer on citizens new and very important fundamental rights. it can be said that this directive lays the foundations for the dual citizenship - national and european - enshrined in the draft treaty, which is also discussed in the convention. the right of permanent residence which is being pursued is a concrete example of this. before examining the directive in more detail, it is appropriate to clarify its scope. it is addressed to community citizens and their family members, whatever their nationality. the principle of equal treatment of third-country nationals who are members of a community family has been enshrined in clear terms since the 1960s and this directive makes it even more effective and efficient. this is a right derived from that of the community citizen whose family they are members of. it should be made clear at the outset that this directive does not apply to third-country nationals, and in any event not to those who are not related to community nationals, even if they reside in a member state or exercise freedom of movement within the union. the great merit of this directive is that it contains all the previous provisions on this subject in a single text. another advantage is clarity, and i believe that some of the rapporteur's amendments have also helped to simplify the overly bureaucratic procedures as much as possible. the commissioner also stressed that the european parliament had a duty to ensure that the european parliament's powers were not undermined by the council's decision to suspend the application of the schengen acquis. the registration procedure should be simple and straightforward and, in any case, the principle of self-certification should be applied, as is already the case in some member states. this must also apply to means of proof, such as income guarantee and health cover. for thirdcountry nationals, proof of the relationship must be provided by an identity document, the sole purpose being to avoid possible abuse. another innovative principle carried forward by the directive concerns the expulsion of third-country nationals who have a right of residence in the community. the directive provides that expulsion may not be carried out under any circumstances. this approach applies the amsterdam principle of creating an area of freedom, security and justice without frontiers, but some member states will probably want to intervene with their own rules on this issue. i have left the most pressing issue for last, as is always the case when a debate is held in this house: the family, its composition, the definition of a couple and a spouse. in order to prevent such a large number of innovative regulations from becoming hostages to the usual iron fist, i have made a very open effort as rapporteur, pushing myself to the extreme limits of my principles and those of the political group i represent, in order to bring the directive as a whole to fruition. moreover, the definition of spouse is not open to question under community law, and the court of justice has repeatedly stated this. in this area, and also in relation to civil partnerships, the rapporteur takes up a number of amendments tabled and then withdrawn by the socialist group, which call for the laws of the various member states to redress the differences which still exist at community level. this democratic call for subsidiarity, for national sovereignty, i believe, respects all sensitivities and should avoid the usual crusades which risk devaluing the content of the report and undermining the scope of the directive. in short, each member state regulates family matters on the basis of national legislation and national sensibilities. it would be a real pity if we were not able to deliver a serious and agreed text to the council, given the tremendous opportunity we have to take part in the codecision on this matter. it is not possible to impose on 13 states a model shared by only two of them, or to give priority to symbols and dogmas over the serious rules which millions of citizens expect to regulate their lives. in conclusion, the rapporteur's line - it must be said - largely coincides with that of the commission, which has been able to provide a coherent and objective text interpreting, as we know, also the council's position. we have the opportunity to deliver new, modern and more secure rules to citizens. i hope that the vote in this house will enable us to approve them and i thank the rapporteurs for their opinions and all the colleagues who have made my work easier with their amendments and have certainly improved the content of the directive. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, the proposal for a directive on the right of free movement and residence of european citizens and their families within the territory of the member states marks a fundamental step towards building a freer and more open europe, and also seeks to simplify and rationalise a veritable jungle of provisions concerning employees or selfemployed persons, pensioners, students and ordinary citizens wishing to live in a country other than their own. the amendments voted in the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs have also made considerable improvements to the original text, providing greater legal certainty for workers, to protect them from the dangers of illegal immigration: the european parliament has a duty to protect the citizens of europe from these dangers. of course, much remains to be done, as was well explained by mr karamanou and mr medina ortega. in dealing with the expectations of the family members of those who want to reside outside their own country, we also focused on an effective expansion of the rights of freedom by removing discriminatory measures linked to gender identity, sexual orientation and the choice of forms of coexistence. we are certain that, just as rights such as divorce and abortion are rooted in the conscience of the great majority of women and men in europe, so too is there a need to give effect to the right of those who want to live in a country other than their own, who want to live alone or with a person of their own sex, or who want to start a family without being forced into marriage. i do not know whether the council will be able or willing to bear the political and cultural weight of the choices that this parliament will make, whether it will approve the report as voted in the committee on civil liberties, but we are sure that, if it does not, it will be in conflict, as my colleague terrón i cusí has already said, with the will of the majority of the citizens of the union, with the risk of increasing the distance between institutions and peoples.
madam president, we have been waiting for this directive on the free movement of persons for many years, perhaps too many, and now that it has finally come, we support it. i am also speaking, in fact, to deliver to the rapporteur, in both form and substance, the appeal of the transnational radical party, signed by 1122 people of 30 different nationalities, calling for full respect for the freedom of movement of persons in the european union and for the elimination of discrimination against same-sex couples. in this connection i would like to say in particular to the rapporteur, mr santini, and to mr pirker, that it seems that in some of the amendments and passages which have been tabled in the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs there is a desire to impose a single family model throughout europe through the directive on free movement. that this accusation is false, as the texts which have been approved show. what we are trying to do is not to impose a single family model in an inappropriate way, but to ensure that, in relation to the free movement of persons, and therefore in relation to european legislation, there are no differences in treatment, no discrimination on the basis of whether certain couples are recognised in one way or another, whether they are homosexual or heterosexual couples. that is what we are asking for. we do not think that the free movement of persons in the european union will automatically introduce same-sex marriage throughout europe, but if in one country same-sex marriage is recognised, the same-sex couple, when they move to another country, will have to have the rights that concern free movement recognised, not all the rights that concern family law. that is the point, and that is why i ask my colleagues in the other groups not to delete the reference to 'regardless of sex'. we are told that it is useless, that it is superfluous; we're not lawyers and jurists, we just believe that this formula, this expression, should be kept: if it's not needed, so much the better. so freedom of movement, regardless of the sex of the persons who have entered into a marriage or a de facto union.
mr president, we would like to have belarus as one of the neighbours of community europe and perhaps one day even part of it. if some countries are asked how far they can go to be part of europe, this is not a problem for belarus, because it is in europe. however, the latest review of the situation by the council of europe a few months ago excludes the possibility of inviting belarus to participate in its parliamentary assembly. the democratic conditions have not changed much, but the european parliament is patiently awaiting an initiative which can have an impact on the restoration of certain rights. at the beginning, it might even be a matter of agreeing on the meaning of individual definitions, because sometimes one has the impression of a dialogue between deaf people, between two parties who do not understand each other on the meaning to be given to the word 'democracy'. it is true that belarus has many reasons to be attached to russia, but it would be in its national interest to maintain a certain balance. the next municipal elections will be a test to see whether progress has been made in the area of rights. abolishment of the death penalty, freedom of the press, association, worship: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. geopolitics suggests it, history will bring it sooner or later. the very strong corruption, misery, disorder have projected in 94 to power lukaschenko, who has operated a cure too strong: it reduced some of the corruption, but the authoritarian temptation was combined with the kind of leadership that already brought down the soviet union, and not much has changed since then. let's hope it's not too long.
yesterday, mr president, while i was on the plane from bergamo to strasbourg, i closed my eyes for a moment and saw the face of the italian pantalone theatre, which is notorious for being squat and penniless, talking to mr santini. pantalone asked mr santini: 'what is the commission's position on this matter?' why don't you put me in your report and circulate me in europe? 'i?' replied mr santini. but you can move around! and throwback pants: this is not true, because the report says that those who want to travel are required to have the financial means to pay for the journey, the plane; i mean, you're asking for a certain economic well-being. i'm pants, and i'm poor, and i have no money. so i can't travel around europe! i do not agree with it, and i shall therefore advise mr fatuzzo to vote against it. and i did vote against it.
mr president, shortly after i saw the italian pantalone, who advised me on the santini report, i saw a mafia man. a member of the mafia came up to me, and he chuckled: - what? now you have the hernández mollar report which would like to prevent us mafiosi from moving freely in europe. i gotta tell you, fatuzzo, i like you when i hear you make your vow statements. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is not excluded from the decision-making process. would it not be better, then, to leave visa-free access to everyone and to check us individually, if you do not want us, to make sure that we do not enter and cause damage? other
let me turn, mr president, to the head of state of belarus. dear mr lukaschenko, i see in the marset campos report on page 13 that you no longer pay pensions to pensioners: you pay her a lot, but very late. i'd like to suggest a method that is used here in some european countries when you can't pay your pensions: in italy, for example, a law is passed which says that pensions will no longer be paid to a certain category of citizens. then why are you late with your pension, dear lukaschenko? pass a law you are powerful that suppresses a good part of belarus' pensions, so you can legally do what you now consider to be just bad administration.
(es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal was tabled on 20 december 2001 in response to the request made by the laeken european council. the commission considers, however, that the eco-points system is not a long-term valid system to solve the traffic problems associated with sensitive areas. the text we are presenting contains some significant elements, such as the deletion of the 108% clause which restricts the number of transit journeys by community lorries through austria to an annual limit. the proposal maintains the system in force throughout austria and also the number of ecopoints available for 2003. the system's objective of reducing pollution by 60% over the past 12 years will be achieved in 2003. the proposal is therefore in line with the wishes of the heads of state and government, it is an extension for a limited period - one year renewable twice in succession for another year, i.e. at the end, a maximum of three years - but it cannot in any case be the definitive proposal, but simply a transitional solution while we manage to put forward other solutions.
the rapporteur. mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a european question, even if the list of speakers is dominated by italians and austrians. let me say, however, at the outset that i understand the austrians' concerns as a mountaineer. the austrian case and the alpine question as a whole are the direct consequence of a transport policy which must be radically changed, as clearly indicated in the white paper, which, by a completely coincidental circumstance, we shall be discussing this afternoon. there are two requirements: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of goods and the single market, and on the protection of the environment, road safety and human health. in essence, what is called, in a somewhat fashionable term, sustainable development. what should be the transport logic? less lorries, more trains, less transport monoculture, more intermodality, fewer roads and road switches, more rail switches, an overall rebalancing of the situation which takes account of the freedom of the market but also of the need for guidelines, including clarity on the real costs of transport, consequent charging, the release of resources for railway investment, the european railway system package, safety with the appropriate tunnel directive and with common rules to make road transport safer; finally, there is a growing push for less polluting vehicles and, in conclusion, the use of systems such as the galileo satellite system for monitoring truck fleets. the austrian case: the same applies to other mountain ranges, such as the pyrenees. we are facing an explosion in freight traffic, and this phenomenon will increase even more with enlargement. historically, austria has had this eco-points system, which was about to expire, and we have seen a strangely undulating european council since laeken until midnight last year, when what the committee called a virtual solution was found, i.e. one that did not really exist in the real world of numbers. that is why the european parliament, by a large majority in the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, has chosen its own path, starting from the premise that a legal basis must be in view, namely the transport protocol to the alpine convention, which will be the only instrument that will also oblige the european union to regulate the flows of truck traffic in the alpine area. a new policy is needed which sees the swiss model as an example that must be copied in some way. the committee i chair has done its best to find a balanced solution: we have invited the ministers, we have also made sure that the date of the brenner basic railway is moved permanently from 2021 to 2012; we have tried, in the amendments we are putting to the house, to find a solution that goes beyond the logic of the ecopoints, but we found a solution, up to 2006, that was based on the need, as i said, to take account of the guidelines of the alpine convention, but i would say, more generally, of the sensitive areas of the alps: it is not by chance that amendment no 15 refers to other areas, such as the fréjus area in the north-western alps, the mont blanc area and the austrian alps, in short, the alps as a whole, because i believe that this is the overall picture we have to face today. we have tried very carefully, especially in article 13, to find this modulation of tir, this logic of the 2004-2005-2006 quotas, the logic of which in 2005-2006 will lead to the prohibition of euro 0 and euro 1, a quotas for euro 2 and a free passage for euro 3. finally, as regards the amendments: i do not think that the swoboda and simpson amendments, which substantially amend the proposal which was adopted by a large majority in the committee, are acceptable, nor is the rack amendment acceptable because it changes the cards in the deck profoundly, even in this case. i think the green amendment no 19 is interesting, because it is based on the future debate. finally, i think we should say 'no' to amendments nos 20 and 21, because they also change the whole of the proposal. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that as chairman of the committee, as rapporteur, i had the duty to strike a balance. i would perhaps, as a mountaineer, have gone further, but i think it would be appropriate for parliament to take note of the current state of the debate.
mr president, commissioner, mr caveri's report is an excellent report, but it does not remove the uneasiness with which we are coming to this vote: the council's attitude, which we consider to be formalistic and totally inappropriate, is that at a meeting on 31 december, at the beginning of the year, it is decided to reach a majority solution in a few hours, which takes away all common sense from the substance of this solution, since it is a solution which is not accepted, not accepted by the countries directly concerned, such as austria and italy. i am also very disappointed that it has been decided to grant a free derogation to two countries, greece and portugal, for certain categories of lorries, as if we were still at the beginning of the integration process and that it was necessary to make a number of derogations and exceptions. my discomfort, mr president, is also due to the profound contradiction that this system of ecopoints brings with it, without resolving the question that commissioner de palacio also mentioned. we are continuing to extend a transitional arrangement which was accepted when austria joined the european union only as a transitional arrangement, precisely because it is a derogation from the substance of the treaties as regards the free movement of goods and, in this case, also because it affects the alpine arc, which is already a natural obstacle to the movement of goods in some countries. as the commissioner rightly reminds us, the insistence on a solution that remains transitory is our third cause for concern, namely the slowness with which we are moving towards the natural solution, which is called brenner, which is called intermodality. it is also positive, as mr caveri recalled, that the commission has recorded a slightly closer, slightly less unlikely, date of 2021, the date initially proposed to the austrian government for the start of work on the brenner. finally, mr president, the discomfort is also due to the way in which attempts have been made, in this parliament, in a rather grotesque way, to construct a rather schematic opposition between those who are advocates and guarantors of respect for and quality of the environment and those who are guarantors of the interests of road hauliers. it's not like that! we find that an unacceptable oversimplification. our group - and i believe the whole parliament, which has made every effort to seek compromise amendments - has given priority to sustainable development and the quality of the environment in the alpine region. the value of the caveri report and all the other amendments which have been tabled is that they have found compromise amendments which reconcile in a balanced way the requirements of environmental protection and the fundamental principle of free movement. i would like to conclude, mr president, by reminding myself that the extension is not a solution but a postponement. now it's up to the governments.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his patience and tenacity. i too believe that the result of the committee on transport is a good result, unlike what the council has given us, and it is a good result precisely because it reconciles two things that are difficult to reconcile: on the one hand, respect, enhancement and intensification of all efforts to preserve the environment, here and there in the alps - there is an austrian side but there is also an italian side of the alps - and, on the other hand, respect for one of the key principles of this european union - if we believe in a european union - namely the internal market, the free movement of people, goods, the minimum foundations for a community of people, in addition to economic values. it is therefore a point of equilibrium which is finally being brought to an end, and it could not be otherwise if we do not want to lay the foundations of the treaties and the law once and for all, but we do recognize that a transitional period is still needed, with a timetable which we believe is better than the one proposed by the commission and which we ask the commission to assess. i therefore fully agree with and support this approach, which we have also been working on, but frankly, i would like to say one final joke to my austrian colleagues: i am a little saddened that our austrian colleagues in this house receive a lot of solidarity from their fellow citizens, from all political parties, of course, but none from colleagues in other countries. well, i invite you to think about that. ladies and gentlemen, our responsibility as members of the european parliament, at such a difficult time for the european union - and i am also referring to other issues - also requires us to explain to our citizens that belonging to a union brings advantages, benefits, but sometimes it also brings difficulties. it is not by stirring up difficulties that we help to find a european solution. i'm really begging you to think about it. we could have blocked this too, but we preferred a reasonable position. i believe that it is for the good of europe that your position should take on a more moderate and conciliatory tone.
mr president, if it is possible, i too would like to try to turn back the clock and start this debate in this house with a tone a little different from that which has characterized some speeches. mr lisi, my colleague, said before me that we would expect, at least from the exercise of our parliamentary function as representatives of the peoples of europe - i repeat, europeans - an additional contribution so that problems whose foundation we all recognize can be tackled without being held hostage by a reading that is at times renouncing, at times instrumental, resigned to the national interest. we will not make any progress if the sacrosanct protection of legitimate interests - the protection and safeguarding of the environment - can be achieved only by beheading others, only by obscuring others. we're not going to make a move! i believe that the solution adopted by the caveri report, in terms of once again being transitory, is the best solution under the circumstances. let us now try to highlight what should be encouraged rather than what should be restricted: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one, but that it is a good one. if we all decide to support responsibilities in this direction which national governments have ignored for too long and the resulting proposals of the committee, i think the next debate on this point will be more worthy of the role we all play.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget that we are talking, it is true, about the specific case of austria, but that our thinking must have a much broader horizon, on the whole alpine pass system, if we are to reason objectively and take decisions that are a little bit better for everyone. what happens to one gate has an immediate effect on all the others. as far as the brenner is concerned, recent history is, to say the least, convulsive. i would remind you that, apart from its natural appeal as a direct vertical line of connections from northern europe to the mediterranean, in recent history the transits on the brenner - then in austria, but also in italy - have increased enormously for very long periods, due to the closure of the mont blanc first, the gottardo later and due to the chronic crises of the fréjus and the other swiss crossings. all this has helped to sharpen the situation with regard to the ecological defence of austria, but we must not forget - and this has never been considered - that there is another side, and that is the italian side, where i live. we have never been awarded the same, identical ecological damage, which austria has been rewarded with eco-points and other means, as some of my colleagues have mentioned. there have never been ecopoints or tolls, as is the case for the europa bridge and the austrian motorway, which are among the highest in europe. i have therefore come to the conclusion that the solution proposed by the caveri report is fair. it is right to apply the eco-points scheme to euro 1 and euro 2, as it is right to exempt euro 3 and all subsequent generations of lorries. but it is also right not to talk about eco-points after 2006 and to think instead about alternative formulas for compensating for external costs, and not just for austria but for all the critical and sensitive areas of europe. finally, it is appropriate to think about major railway and intermodal projects, starting with the brenner tunnel, because it is really time to put the project into practice.
commissioner diamantopoulou, i too am very much in favour of increasing births in the european union, as is the italian government: minister maroni has said that a new law, once it comes into force, will make it easier for new couples. i also tell my pensioners to do everything possible to increase the number of newborns, and they assure me that they will do their utmost. the question i would like to ask you now is this: do you really think that just increasing births is enough to solve the problem of so many elderly people and pensions, or is it not just as important to create new jobs? as long as there are unemployed, having more young people does not solve the problem of the elderly: we will have more and more young people without work, without the ability to pay the pensions of the elderly. wouldn't it be better to have more jobs, as well as more births?
- the agenda calls for the debate on transport policy to continue in 2010.
- i wish you a happy birthday and a good evening, when you can celebrate the event with your friends.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur for his powerful work, but i must also make a personal remark: i am not very convinced, frankly, that it is useful to our parliamentary work to keep our assembly stuck for more than a year and a half with a document as powerful as the white paper - with over four hundred amendments and so on - also because the result is this debate, which is by nature very short, very succinct, and in which it is difficult to deal with a subject of this kind. it would be better, perhaps, to find a new methodology for dealing with these large chapters of the white papers and to proceed by sections: this is a suggestion because it is a great embarrassment not to know exactly what to say in two minutes on such a vast subject. i shall therefore concentrate not on what i share - which is a very, very large part of the white paper - but on what seems to me to be a still a shadow area, namely, madam commissioner, the subject of transeuropean networks. as mr jarzembowski has rightly said, if we want to concentrate the union's efforts, including economic ones, we should look in that direction, that is to say, at projects which are really of european significance. however, i cannot help but notice that the way they are dealt with in the white paper is an underestimated way, a way that does not measure up. we have updated a list of projects which are already suffering, are lagging behind, are not progressing, and instead of trying to understand why they are not progressing and finding ways of pushing them along a faster path, we have thought it wise to extend this list, including works which are also very demanding and very costly. you had a very good idea, namely the declaration of the european interest in some of these works, an idea which was not carried out. in conclusion, madam commissioner, it is clear that we need to focus more on the fundamental objectives, especially on the infrastructure issues that we have as the european union, by urging the member states to do so and by directing the work and resources of our committee as much as possible in this direction.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the white paper contains several elements of great and direct interest to italy, such as the problem of the alpine crossings, the financing of major infrastructure projects, the modal rebalance, sustainability and cohesion in europe. i believe that transport policy must make a significant contribution to the improvement of the economic and social situation in europe, and in particular it must take account of the specific character of the peripheral and island regions, calling for measures to be taken in respect of these regions to improve, as far as possible, their disadvantaged situation and to ensure territorial continuity. the essen and dublin european councils had identified 14 priority projects and, without waiting for these objectives to be achieved, the white paper added others, with a clear dispersion of resources. in this connection, i would like to stress that none of these projects relates to southern italy, where the situation is critical and where, after enlargement, there is a greater risk of remaining on the margins of europe. when i speak of a critical situation, i am referring to land transport, the transeuropean networks, maritime transport, air transport and transport safety in general. i would like to make it clear that we are talking about regions which have serious structural difficulties, shortcomings which are the result of wrong choices and policies. in parliament i represent the citizens of two large islands - sicily and sardinia - with a population of about seven million: i would ask that the commitments made by the european ministers in the treaty of amsterdam to the peripheral and island regions not be forgotten. i hope that the increasing liberalization of transport will be accompanied by guarantees of development for the less-favoured regions.
commission. - (es) mr president, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr izquierdo, for the work he has done, all the members of the rett committee for the quality of the report as a whole, and the various speakers who have spoken on behalf of various committees throughout this debate. i would also like to thank all the speakers, including those who were highly critical, because i think they bring colour, variety and, above all, they convey feelings and appreciations that must be taken into account when we talk about offering solutions for a space - as mr izquierdo said - as wide and as diverse, as well as sometimes asymmetrical and diverse as the european space. i would like to point out that i agree with the honourable members, and it is also very clear in mr izquierdo's report - which i consider to be frankly balanced - that we are talking about sustainable transport, and that requires, first of all, a competitive transport system. if we do not create a competitive transport system in europe, our whole industrial fabric, our whole productive sector, will suffer. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of transport by road, the introduction of a new system of road transport by rail and the introduction of a new system of road transport by road. and this is the exercise, not always easy, to which we must respond with our proposals. i have taken note of the clear support of mr izquierdo and of the proposal for a report by parliament. you have been slow, but ladies and gentlemen, the council is not moving any faster - let me be clear - in expressing its support for modal change, the opening of the railway, the creation of the single sky, the launch of the galileo programme, where there is indeed an urgent need to take decisions and take action. like us, their priorities include security and the need to respond to the investment needs in the transeuropean networks, in particular by charging, where appropriate, for the use of infrastructure. i am also glad that the report stresses the connection with the periphery, the economic importance of the road, the need to reduce traffic - when i speak of the periphery i also mean the archipelagos several thousand kilometres from the european mainland. i think that all these points are very interesting and worthy of our attention and that they deserve to be highlighted in this report. however, i would like to make a few comments on the important points made here and in the report. for starters, the highway patrol. i fully understand this idea, because it follows from the need to create a driving force which will enable all levels of responsibility to react against road safety while respecting subsidiarity and the commission's right of initiative. i think we should reflect on the steps that need to be taken to achieve this goal. i hope to be able to give more details in the new communication on road safety which i will be presenting to you in the near future, but there is little difference between an observatory and an agency. the idea, ultimately, is the same. i would like to take the text we are discussing and make a few comments on competitiveness, respect for the environment and the integration of quality of services, safety and quality of life. paragraph 9 states that 'the shifting of goods by road to other modes of transport should be encouraged by improving the quality of service of these other, more respectful modes and in no case by negatively influencing the competitiveness of road transport'. i think this sentence is essential. europe cannot afford to make road transport less competitive, which is at the basis of its economic development, growth and international competitiveness. the aim is to make rail transport as competitive as road transport. to those who flatly reject - a minority in this parliament - the liberalization of the railways, or the introduction of competition - we are talking more about introducing competition than liberalizing, because it is a highly regulated liberalization - i say that we already know what maintaining the present situation leads to: to having railways in museums, but not in reality. i think we should try to take other routes which have worked well in other transport sectors, but i would like to stress this phrase: it is not a question of penalizing, but of improving the quality of other systems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would point out that it is a question of incorporating enlargement into the concept of transeuropean networks and exchanges and that european area where transport is the one that guarantees the reality of a market and the possibility for people and goods to flow through that entire european area. we must insist on reinforcing the railways. it is an essential point and we cannot give it up. this is the subject of paragraph 36 et seq. i am aware that it is also a question of boosting the waterways, the maritime sector, but we cannot avoid, in some cases, building new roads because there are areas where road infrastructure is still lacking. it is not a matter of dogmatism, therefore, but of taking a practical approach to the reality of european transport needs. as regards the large transport finance fund, i certainly agree with mr izquierdo collado that we need more european funds to support and promote infrastructure, especially rail infrastructure, and to solve bottlenecks to improve the use of european infrastructure. can you pose like mr. left-handed does? i think that what we have to do is, in the light of the new financial perspectives, the broad outlines of which will be discussed shortly, to raise the need for more funds to be allocated specifically to the transeuropean networks. i think that is where we must look for the greatest funds, the greatest means, because what is clear is that we need to speed up the process of building infrastructure. the current funds allocated to transeuropean networks are insufficient and we must make progress in this area, because transeuropean networks have a european benefit, a european interest, regardless of the particular country they connect or cross. they are of european interest because they facilitate - i repeat - the completion of the internal market and the integration of the european area itself. the eib question: other ways of getting closer, of course, and we must also encourage public-private participation in financing. i shall shortly be presenting all these issues, including pricing, in that infrastructure package. mr costa is gone, but i mean the pricing, there are paragraphs 75 and 76 which speak of the simultaneous introduction of a pricing system for all modes of transport, both for infrastructure and for the external costs involved, and which say that it should in no way be penalising to anyone, but should favour a balance and allow cross-financing. i fully agree with this approach, ladies and gentlemen, with one exception, namely that cross-financing must be limited to exceptional cases involving alternative routes and that in no case can cross-financing, tolls or tariffs become a rent of a country's geographical location within the european area. otherwise, we would be back in the middle ages, where, for example, mastering a bridge over a river produced enough income to live oppiquely and even have a position of lordship. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission will draw up a communication on the transport situation in the candidate countries before 2004. we do not think that a specific communication is necessary in 2003 because we are going to produce two reports. first, a full follow-up report, six months before the date of accession, i.e. around november 2003, which will examine the degree of preparation of the candidate countries for accession in all sectors, including transport, and a communication in 2003 on cooperation with candidate and neighbouring countries in the field of transeuropean transport networks. all this in addition to the report by the van miert group, which already outlines the networks with this concept in 27 countries: the pan-european network. ladies and gentlemen, the 2005 interim evaluation report, as provided for in the white paper, will be the ideal opportunity to address these concerns and integrate all this information. mr president, i conclude this long and very important debate by thanking once again mr izquierdo collado for his work, a serious and balanced work, difficult because it is not easy to put things together and put them together. in conclusion, i hope that tomorrow, after what i have heard in the course of today's debates, it will be clearly established that the broad lines of transport policy for the next ten years in the european union are reflected in the vote in parliament with complete clarity.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following reports, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy: - a5-0025/2003 by mr van velzen, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reuse and commercial exploitation of public sector documents (com (2002) 207 - c5-0292/2002 - 2002/0123 (cod)); - a5-0016/2003 by mrs auroi, on the full deployment of third generation mobile communications (2002/2240 (ini)); - a5-0013/2003 by mr paasilinna, on the communication from the commission: 'eeurope 2005: an information society for all' (action plan to be presented for the european council in seville on 21 and 22 june 2002) [2002/2242 (ini) ]; - a5-0434/2002 by mr khanbhai, on the commission communication on the impact of the e-economy on european businesses: economic analysis and policy implications (com (2001) 711 - c5-0285/2002 - 2002/2145 (cos))
commission. – mr president, i am happy to see everyone with an interest in this field here tonight. i dream of a day when we can discuss this issue in the daytime - it may come. information and communication technologies are a powerful source of growth and productivity gains, which contribute to improving our living standards. that is why the recovery of the sector is so important at this point in time. the five reports which the house will deal with today and tomorrow give us the opportunity to keep the political momentum towards the achievement of the lisbon agenda, as many honourable members have said today. these reports also contribute to the process of building confidence in the ict sector. allow me first of all to thank all the rapporteurs, mr van velzen, mrs auroi, mr paasilinna, mr khanbhai and mrs read, as well as the shadow rapporteurs and political groups for their thorough work on these commission communications and proposals. i am also pleased to have the opportunity to inform you that the commission adopted four important documents today. these are: a communication on the situation in the telecoms sector; a draft regulation establishing a european network and information security agency, as has been mentioned here; the final report on eeurope 2002 and the recommendation on relevant markets. i hope you find them in your computers when you return to your offices. let me reiterate our common commitment to an efficient and timely implementation of the new regulatory framework. the framework will stimulate investment and thus promote facility-based competition, which is, in the medium to long-term, the best guarantee for sustained consumer benefits, innovation, and investment. with the recommendation on relevant markets we aim to give legal certainty and to help restore confidence to the sector. let me come back to the themes of tonight and say a few words first on the report on 3g. mrs auroi’s report, as adopted by the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, sends an important signal at a time when the first 3g services are about to be launched. at this juncture, 3g deployment is clearly a priority. we need to encourage solutions which favour a quick deployment of networks while also accommodating environmental needs. in today’s communication on the situation in the telecoms sector, the commission calls for a series of actions to overcome barriers to 3g deployment. amongst these is the clarification of network infrastructure sharing, the importance of which was also emphasised in the report. information to the citizens on the health aspects related to mobile communications and continued research are important. scientific findings need to be made broadly available. the commission will promote the diffusion of information, for example through a specific web site. the world health organisation is the leading authority in this area, and we are working closely with it. finally, i would like to stress the importance of 3g in the context of access to open and interoperable platforms. this is to increase consumers’ choice and thus to contribute to the establishment of an information society for all. inclusiveness is an overriding principle in eeurope 2005. the commission is committed to pursuing action toward openness and interoperability of platforms, as so clearly requested by parliament. let me briefly reiterate the main objectives of the eeurope 2005 action plan. eeurope sets out to stimulate the demand-supply cycle by, on the demand side, promoting content, services and applications, where there is a crucial role for online public services – egovernment, ehealth and elearning – as well as for ebusiness. this will stimulate and is stimulated by the supply side, by enabling the widespread availability and use of multi-platform and secure broadband. it is vital to ensure an inclusive information society. therefore we are promoting multi-platform access which includes digital television, 3g mobile, pcs, kiosks and whatever terminals are available. i am pleased to see that mr paasilinna's report gives such strong support to the main ideas of the eeurope action plan. we fully share the view that guaranteeing broadband connections at an affordable price, which is essential for a competitive and dynamic economy, requires decisive actions from member state governments. mr paasilinna asked how we could accelerate access for the member states. we continue to carry out rigorous reporting and benchmarking of the activities. at the same time, we have launched two presentations of european best practice in egovernment and ehealth. we will nominate these best practices and ensure they are widely diffused among the public authorities in all member states. in our recently adopted communication on the situation in the telecoms sector we call upon member states to commit to putting their national broadband strategy in place by the end of this year. as mr khanbhai’s report on the impact of eeconomy notes, smes are key drivers of economic growth and should be encouraged actively to engage in the eeconomy. i broadly share the views presented in mr khanbhai's report, for example, the need for smes to have easy access to legal advice on applicable law and on ict and ebusiness skills. we agree that european businesses, and especially smes, need support in ‘going digital’. the commission is currently working together with the member states to set a new policy framework for ebusiness policies for smes, including potential quantitative targets. network security has become a major policy concern and therefore a central issue in the eeurope 2005 action plan. parliament’s position on this matter of october last year was very much appreciated. as i mentioned earlier, the commission today adopted a draft regulation on the agency. the commission is also committed, through eeurope 2005, to promote a wider access to and greater participation in the benefits of the information society, particularly for disadvantaged groups. in addition to the specific measures foreseen by the modinis programme itself, the commission intends to promote and sustain several initiatives which will be organised in the context of the european year for disabled and which will follow from its earlier communication on website accessibility. eeurope 2005 will be implemented in part through modinis and, though it is not part of our debate today, i would like also to thank parliament for the support given to the commission proposal, in particular as far as the budget is concerned. let me now turn to the piece of legislation which we now have on the table: the directive on the re-use of public sector information. as mr van velzen said today and as he underlines in his report, the content is essential for further development of the information society. the message here is clear and it comes at a time when the financial constraints in the sector bring attention to the fact that public sector information is a key content resource throughout information society services. the key elements are transparency of procedures and of conditions for re-use, non-discrimination and fair competition. the directive will stimulate the creation of information services based upon, or incorporating, public sector information. it is important for the content industries and also for the telecoms sector, which needs to find ways to generate content for 3g services. i fully share the opinion of mr van velzen that the operators should work together to create a marketplace. we need cooperation and interoperability to create a market which can convince the consumers. mr president, i wish to thank all the members for this important debate and for their contribution to the whole process since we started work on the telecoms framework. (applause)
- thank you, chief. i hope that next time the debate will take place during the day. it would also be preferable for the one presiding.
- i was also mayor and i am curious to know if this was an isolated case or if all mayors were in this situation. however, this is not a question i ask you to answer right away. you will answer to me personally.
commission. – mr president, it has been a broad and very interesting debate. i would like to thank mr van velzen for his work on public sector information. we all very much agree that quality is one of the essential factors for the development of the new information society services and particularly 3g services. i would prefer to submit the commission position on the amendments in writing because the safety at work directive starts with the limits on our working hours! commission position on amendments: see annex.
- that's a very smart choice. thank you, commissioner. the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place today, wednesday, at 12 noon. the next item is the report (doc. (the sitting was closed at 12.10 p.m.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me return to the subject of the spring summit. the ultimate lisbon objective of making the european economy the most competitive knowledge-based economy in ten years has been seen by many as an optimistic and comforting slogan from the outset. in fact, it is becoming less and less so, as, three years later, little has been done to achieve this goal. the european economy is still at a standstill, the necessary reforms are being postponed or watered down from top to top, and the hopes of europe's unemployed to find jobs through growth are still tied to the relaunch of the us locomotive economy. the spring summit is likely to see the heads of state or government reaffirm - though in the present climate it is not certain - their commitment to the lisbon objectives. a letter has already been circulated to the greek presidency reaffirming the need and the will to re-energize the european economy through ambitious structural reforms. well very well, we would say but we radicals believe however that, instead of setting or re-proposing big goals, we must do right away good and right things: urgently reform social security systems, which for many states represent not only a serious injustice towards future generations but also a real time bomb for the sustainability of public finances; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms and will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms. a genuinely integrated european financial market needs to be created; it is necessary to reduce drastically the burdens that are particularly on small and medium-sized enterprises in europe - fiscal, bureaucratic, in terms of labour regulation - and which are one of the reasons why a substantial part of european entrepreneurship and micro-entrepreneurship - i think of italy but not only - is pushed into the underground economy, an economy that escapes regulation, that escapes legality precisely because of the excessive burdens that are imposed. these are the things that should be done if we are to avoid being deceived by slogans, by magic words - words which are used a lot in this house - such as the european social model or the social market economy. i think we do well to ask ourselves whether these models are, today, really capable of protecting the weaker bands, the outsider bands.
mr president, the difficulties of implementation, together with the potential of the lisbon strategy, lie mainly in its global and integrated nature. despite some tentative progress, the basic idea of integrating economic, social and environmental policies has not yet developed in a meaningful and coherent way, either at member state or community level. if we fully accept the view that social and environmental quality is not an accessory but a component of development and an essential factor in competitiveness, i believe that the open method of coordination must be strengthened. i therefore welcome the fact that, within the convention, the idea of conferring a constitutional status on it seems to be gaining ground. experience shows that such ambitious objectives, such as those called for by the concept of sustainable development, cannot be achieved without a strong and widespread involvement of all social and institutional actors. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the aim is to encourage all those concerned to adopt innovative and responsible behaviour, taking a medium- and long-term perspective. in this context, i consider it a serious limitation that this parliament has not yet succeeded in establishing an organisational and procedural framework for monitoring, evaluating and guiding sustainable development policies in a truly effective, i.e. multidisciplinary way. it is right to ask that the interinstitutional agreement ensure the effective participation of parliament in the definition of the broad guidelines, but we must also be better equipped for this purpose.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, in the light of today's debate in parliament and the vote on the commission's position on the wto, i ask the greek presidency: how can we deal with the problem of mediterranean products in the face of a desire to phase out aid and support for agricultural production? the desire to eliminate support and promote the free market is certainly a positive one, but how can this be achieved gradually, taking into account the needs of the developing countries on the one hand and the mediterranean countries on the other, which would certainly suffer an incalculable and serious damage if they were suddenly and excessively liberalized and deprived of support? this is a subject which i think the presidency of a mediterranean country should tackle, should take particularly to heart, also because 2010 is approaching and the free market area is an event which we cannot afford to miss, but for which we are doing little to prepare. i think that a great debate and a great campaign of awareness-raising must be promoted throughout the union on this subject. one final point about the european research area, which concerns me very much: our economy is inextricably linked to our capacity to intensify research, but many small, very small businesses are excluded from the sixth framework programme, not because it provides for it but because they cannot, on their own, seize these opportunities. i would ask that you think about an incentive for the grouping of small businesses, especially in those areas where this attitude of planning and programming together is not very present.
mr president, the fact that my seat is directly in front of you did not help to attract your attention from the start, but that's all right. the european union needs structural reforms, we have heard, and the reform of the labour market is a structural reform which will be put forward at the spring summit, preceded by thessaloniki. but, mr president, the labour market and welfare are two sides of the same coin: if one works, the labour market, the other works, welfare, because the labour market funds welfare. and vice versa: if the labour market is not working, then the welfare system is not working either, and commissioner solbes is starting to have problems. if, on the other hand, the labour market changes - either for regulatory reasons, or for market reasons, or for both - welfare must change too, because welfare cannot be out of sync with the changes that take place in the labour market. for this reason, mr president, mr minister, we must also embark on a strategy for welfare similar to that which we applied, a few years ago, for the labour market with the luxembourg process: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we must synchronise the two systems, we must synchronise the two reforms, we must synchronise the labour market and welfare. so open coordination, constraints and the qualification of the stability pact are all aspects which will have to be precisely qualified and quantified at the spring summit if we are to achieve the lisbon objectives.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, i have been unable to sleep for several nights. i am not sleeping, i am not dreaming, and that makes it difficult for me to make the statements of vote which i usually make in this house. i am therefore appealing to you, and especially to president prodi, not only because of his soft, calm, reassuring, almost paternal voice, but also and above all because of the statements he has made so far. why am i worried? because even many pensioners are not sleeping and are worried. the council president, like myself, knows that the council's presidents are trying to balance the budget, for reasons of economy, by all means, including by reducing expenditure on pensions. pensioners agree that you should have a balanced budget, but some of them live on their pension alone. there are no more than a hundred million people in europe, not counting the candidate countries, who live on pension alone, and they say: we agree that the budget should be adjusted, but why not cut expenditure other than that for pensions? other in some countries, for example in italy, there are laws, passed by previous governments but still maintained by the current government, under which a 99 per cent invalid who has worked for a few years is given a pension of 30 euros a month and widows of young deceased are given pensions of 18 euros. can we be reassured and therefore sleep peacefully that it will cut, yes, but with judgment?
mr president, chile is a republic which has changed its pension system by taking a measured, correct and positive action to save workers for their pension through pension funds. although the whole world looked incredulous at this initiative of the republic of chile, the result was positive: the chilean pension system has been re-financed to such an extent that i suggest that the european states should also study this system carefully and consider whether they should follow its example.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have rejected the report by my esteemed colleague, mr caveri, and i would like to make that point. i think that in this case it would have been better if parliament had remained in line with the danish compromise and taken it into account. i do not think that the setting of a new line is very helpful. i hope that the council will take further action in this context to find a common solution, as our group chairman, mr poettering, has just said. the fact is that the lk-4 scheme is not without problems either, since it places new environmental burdens on the areas concerned. we need to do something about this, and we need to understand this very sensitive area.
mr president, while i was studying this report on the plane from bergamo to strasbourg to decide how to vote, i read that the eco-points system was being extended, and i fell asleep again and dreamt that austria was winning the 2006 world cup. why would you do that? because he had more stitches. so the points are good for austria! the ones that will make her win the 2006 world cup, if my dream comes true - i believe it is also the dream of the austrians - but also the points in the caveri report that allow the citizens of austria to have less pollution, even if the problem is still not solved. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
mr president, mr van velzen has presented to us the commission's proposal for a directive on the commercial exploitation of public sector documents, particularly those of the european parliament. but then, i thought, even the voting statements can be used for commercial exploitation, and i think so. so, firstly, i cannot but vote in favour of this report, and secondly, i hope that i too will be able to exploit the voting declarations of these five years in the european parliament for commercial purposes. of course, the profit, if any, will go to the pensioners who will certainly not disdain a very modest help from the european parliament even in this form.
mr president, this report expresses an opinion on the entry and residence of selfemployed or employed persons from third countries. at the airport i met some beautiful pensioners and young pensioners who said to me: but is it possible that you, in the european parliament, are concerned only with the movement and residence of workers or citizens in general? and the pensioners, don't you take care of them? we too would like to tour all over europe, even if we are from third countries and are not workers but only pensioners. tomorrow, will there be a directive that will make it easier for pensioners to move, enter and stay in the european union? other "certainly", i answered. and that is why, in the meantime, i voted in favour of this report.
mr president, paragraph 66 of the document on european transport policy calls for improvements in road safety. well, that's great, but when are we gonna beat the fog? when will we be able to see through the fog and have fewer road accidents? today, technological advances enable us to see in the dark with special infrared glasses. we want to spend european money on better research so that every driver finally has the glasses to see in the fog? we are also spending money on this research, which will certainly lead to a good result and will allow us to have more security and a truly european transport policy which is the envy of the whole world.
mr president, i have a bit of an appetite and therefore i shall withdraw this explanation of vote.
mr president, i cannot waive this declaration. the document is entitled 'electronic europe 2005: an information society for all'. for all of us? but for everyone? silvio berlusconi sent a letter giving money to students to buy a computer. what about the pensioners? i would like to see the pensioners not forgotten in this electronic society. i propose that when pensioners receive their first pension, they should be given - i repeat, given - a computer as a gift, so that they too can enjoy the benefits, the wonders and the joys of electronics.
in writing. - (it) while we express our satisfaction with the proposals and the commitment of the presidency for the meetings ahead, we recall that a society in rapid change creates, in addition to widespread well-being, cases of social exclusion. it is the policy directed towards the weakest that determines the civilization of a human community which must also respond to the needs of these people. we must preserve the right to a life of dignity and the family as a reference point, by activating instruments for equal access to education and employment, and prevent the spread of child pornography and all forms of physical and moral violence. we need to pay more attention to the environment, to food security, to animal rights, because these are quality of life issues. we must prevent practices which affect physical integrity and personal dignity, such as female genital mutilation. framework rules are needed to ensure that each country provides for basic wages and pension, health and social security systems that correspond to the real cost of living; the participation of employees in the company's profits and results must be made a reality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think there is only one person in these days, in the confines of his 13 buildings, who is happy and who feels empowered by what is happening. this person is saddam hussein. this person - i do not know whether it is his evil genius or our own or your stupidity - has succeeded in a short time in making the european crisis, the nato crisis and, we hope, at least not the un crisis, apparent. the alternative to war, ladies and gentlemen, is not, for democrats, the status quo, this bloody and cruel dictatorial regime that many of you call peace. the alternative is politics, and it is up to politics to define what peace and what conditions, what rules. but here political ideas have not come out, except for a few platitudes, and like it or not to this supposed house, today, the only political proposal on the table is that of a free and democratic iraq under a transitional government, under the aegis of the united nations, which prepares the democratic transition for iraq and the iraqis. you see, you have nothing to blame but "peace". what does that even mean? peace for whom? for the oppressed iraqis? you will march in millions and be sold to the arab public as pro-saddam hussein, whether you like it or not. you see, the "free iraq" goal would have taken the weight off the opposing rhetoric and provided a position of strength that would have made it interesting even for saddam to choose his exit. no, you're not. watch the show. i hope that this single proposal, which has now been signed by thousands of people, will be the only point of summary at the european council which, i believe, will allow us to regain a little dignity.
mr president, welcome to this debate on the eve of the summit on monday, because europe must make its voice heard in favour of peace, in favour of any initiative that can avert war in iraq. the council, the commission and parliament can play a joint role in helping to change the situation in baghdad. but war can be avoided if saddam leaves his country or if he proves in concrete terms that he has destroyed all the prohibited weapons. the dictator has not yet done what the united nations demanded of him in the resolution of 1991. if iraq had behaved like south africa, belarus, kazakhstan, we would not have reached this dramatic situation. there is a substantial violation of the will of the un by the regime in baghdad. iraq is objectively in breach. i ask myself, and i ask you, whether there are still margins to avoid conflict. perhaps, but europe must be united, the international community must be united. every division, every surrender will be used by the iraqi regime to try to strengthen its position. that is why the union must find a single voice in seeking peace, but also in guaranteeing the security of citizens, who are still threatened by terrorist organisations threatening to use bacteriological and chemical weapons which may still be in iraq. this is why we share the position that urges the institutions and governments of europe to act along three lines: first, to strengthen relations between the countries of the union so as to have a common position; secondly, to prevent divisions between the united states and the european union, and in this respect we agree with the words of an italian politician who said that 'there can be no europe apart from or in opposition to the united states of america'. thirdly, to take every possible action to ensure that the credibility of multilateral organizations, nato and the un, is not lost. in conclusion, mr president, not to force saddam to comply with the un resolution is to deprive the security council of its role. this is the approach taken by the italian government, which will take over the leadership of the union in the second half of this year. this is another reason, i believe, why the mediation initiatives coming from rome should be followed very closely and supported. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i must confess that i am rather concerned and surprised after hearing the commissioner's statements. we are on the eve of a war that we will probably only launch on the basis of one suspicion: the suspicion that chemical weapons exist. i am concerned and amazed at the ease with which our suspicions are being swept away, the suspicion that depleted uranium has been used in some war conflicts and has caused serious health consequences for civilians. i would like to confine myself to three facts: first, nato has not banned munitions using depleted uranium, and the fact that it has not banned them makes us fear, makes us think that they have been used, that they can be used at a later time. secondly, a statement by the us secretary of state for defence in january last year, which reported an increase in radiation emissions from depleted uranium weapons used in afghanistan. thirdly, some medical analyses, carried out in afghanistan by a canadian ngo, which found uranium levels 100 times higher than normal, so that the use of depleted uranium weapons is at least likely. now, in the face of all this, it seems to me that it is too simple, too hasty to believe that we do not have enough information to be able to claim to make our voices heard so that these weapons are not used in any conflict, and above all that the risk of such weapons being used in iraq is avoided. that is the spirit of our resolution, but tomorrow it will be the task of the council and the commission not only not to exclude but to demand that this risk be absolutely and definitively avoided.
- the next item is the report (a5-0022/2003) by mrs encarnación redondo jiménez, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the monitoring of forests and environmental interactions in the community (forest focus) [com (2002) 404 - c5-0351/2002 - 2002/0164 (cod) ].
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the following shall be considered as a written declaration:
- the next item is the report (a5-0020/2003) by mrs sandbæk, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on aid for policies and actions in the field of reproductive and sexual health and rights (com (2002) 120 - c5-0114/2002 - 2002/0052 (cod)).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. mr president, we too, as the committee on equal opportunities, have had the opportunity to discuss this regulation. we had time to do so, given the opinion we expressed, i believe, in september last year. there was a feeling that it was important not to leave a gap between the adoption of a new regulation and the expiry of the old one. in the committee on women's rights we felt that we should stress above all the need to accompany the policies contained in this regulation with a programme to combat illiteracy, by promoting education, training, knowledge and culture, with basic training services on communicable diseases, hygiene, health and the rights of women and men. we have attached great importance and value to this aspect precisely because we believe that all the agreements we are going to negotiate must be accompanied by a demand for strict respect for the rights of men and women and, in particular, a clear demand for policies of equality with regard to the gender dimension, as a precondition for any policy towards the countries concerned. we are convinced that problems of reproductive health are also closely linked to problems of poverty and underdevelopment. we therefore believe that only by continuing along this path can they be resolved. of course, there is an emergency: i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
in writing. the work of sandbæk, martens and ferrer can be considered satisfactory in relation to the distance of the starting positions. we should always bear in mind the ability to formulate texts which give priority to respect for human rights, intangible property, self-determination and the empowerment of the individual. so the violent method of abortion as a means of mass planning would be ruled out. a regulation whose objective is to protect health cannot contradictorily undermine life, the supreme good of the person from conception. a second general consideration concerns the approach of countries to these instruments, which respond to the sense of duty that every state, every community, every person must have to defend life. information, preparation, appropriate equipment and personal empowerment must be implemented by the governments of the developing countries in cooperation with the donor countries, in order to free the populations from ignorance, taboos, superstitions and the archaic methods of underdevelopment. the last consideration concerns the question of the subordination of women to men. in the third millennium the culture of the hierarchy of power must disappear completely throughout the world. the third millennium is characterized by a culture of information and knowledge and will therefore have to ensure the conditions for the free exchange of ideas. women will have to face men without any sexist conditioning.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the italian radicals also have a negative view of this report. on occasions like this, when we can talk about drugs, this parliament, especially in the light of the catastrophic results of 40 years of prohibitionist policies and futile attempts which do nothing to stem the spread of illegal drugs but rather aggravate their social, health and human consequences, is missing the opportunity to say some very simple truths with the malliori report: the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of cannabis, which is not a drug, and to introduce a new system of controls on the use of cannabis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why we have launched a major campaign with other colleagues, with the international anti-prohibition league, to denounce the un conventions. that is our position and we shall therefore vote against the malliori report, because it does not bring anything new, but only highlights the seriousness of the problems without offering any solution, and in some cases even making the possible outcome worse.
madam president, when we talk about drugs, we are clearly talking about all-out war, we cannot stop at a few short-term battles. the battles we are talking about today are prevention and harm reduction, but it is clear that all these actions are in any case conditioned by the others, namely the fight against drug trafficking and consumption. it must be said that we must also start from a human condition: that of the addict. we must change a certain orientation: the addict must be regarded as a sick person, not as a criminal, and so we must adopt philosophies and therapies that lead to the recovery of the addict, not to social isolation. that is why, of the two forms of therapy still under discussion, we - many of us - still prefer the more humane intervention of recovery communities, the therapeutic communities, to that of chemical intervention with alternative and drug substitute substances. we disagree, except in extreme clinical cases, on the administration of methadone-like substances. it is also necessary to provide psychological assistance, not just medical and pharmaceutical, to those affected by drug addiction. the fight against the network of traffickers, who are unfortunately also active in these intervention and prevention measures, must be intensified. i would like to return to methadone for a moment. i would say that it is a substitute substance which does not solve the problem of addiction but, more importantly, does not lead to the recovery of the addict. it's a bit like drugging, anesthetizing a sick person without ever having to perform surgery. it was also mentioned by some colleagues - mr blokland, for example - the unfortunate outcome of attempts to liberalize, to legalise in this field: tracks, paths that you'll never cross again. that is why i have also taken the liberty of proposing a number of amendments, which mr bowis will be pleased to explain during the vote, and which he proposes to our rapporteur not as substitutes but as additions to what is contained in the report. these amendments are mainly concerned with prevention: amendment no 60 proposes some ideas for breaking free from addiction, thus striking at the root of the problem; amendment no 61 talks about drug-free treatment but with a lot of psychological help for the drug-addicted patient. amendment no 62 recommends great caution in the access to needles, condoms and syringes; amendments nos 63 and 64 deal with prevention and preparation measures, and in particular with those responsible for carrying them out. finally, the other amendments propose action against drugs in prisons, for the collection of data on prevention and, once again, against substitution treatment, which not only does not reduce harm, does not reduce consumption but increases, increases the illegal market.
i have to say, madam president, we had a situation where there was first the repression of the problem. then, gradually, we went from oppression to trivialization, varying according to the state and the particular form of society. i think that this report is a comprehensive approach. i think the report is positive in its entirety, although it can certainly be improved. the analysis is very comprehensive and good. if we look at the five different stages, production, transport, marketing, consumption and impact, we find that we as a society, as legislators, have to intervene in different areas and in different sectors. on the production side, i think we have to be more involved in development aid - that's another area, but it's very much involved here. because if we are not able to share voluntarily in time, we will probably have to share in the future. as regards transport and marketing and related crime, i believe that additional efforts are needed here, which should be accompanied by a strengthening of the relevant prevention and care measures. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about this, but i think that we should be concerned about the future of the community. consumption is usually presented as an individual problem. it is not just an individual problem, but a question of the individual, the family, the immediate environment and the larger and smaller society. the impact, as the analysis of the report shows very comprehensively, is also a public health problem. it is therefore a problem of society as a whole, and i believe that this phenomenon, which, after being trivialised, is now entering a new phase in which a corresponding holistic approach is being taken, can only be addressed through dialogue, with the help and willingness of the whole environment, that is, the local direct environment, in particular, to provide care. i hope that the attitude of society towards this will gradually change and that the willingness to commit more will increase, which is the prerequisite for a successful fight against this hostage.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mrs stihler on her report. as a surgeon oncologist and university researcher, i have read the report very carefully and i agree with many of the proposals contained in it. i think, however, that the argument was made in an overly alarmist tone, and i will explain why. for nearly 50 years, silicones have been widely used in consumer products - soft drinks, puddings, cakes, pharmaceuticals, paediatric materials, pacemakers, heart valves, lipsticks, creams, fabrics - and have been shown not to cause cancer in humans. for 40 years, silicone breast implants have been used around the world for both aesthetic reasons, for example in the case of serious psychological problems, and for reconstructive reasons, for example in the case of a mastectomy for breast cancer where no age limit can be indicated. in 1986 the university of los angeles examined three thousand women who had been wearing prosthetics for at least six years and found no increased risk of neoplasia or mobility. in 1992, the university of calgary, in examining eleven thousand women, came to the same conclusions. the american association of rheumatologists also sponsored two studies on the risk of autoimmune disease in women wearing silicone prostheses, always demonstrating good tolerance. the average life of prostheses is therefore between 15 and 25 years and spontaneous rupture is often asymptomatic. there are therefore no serious reasons to prevent its use, except for young women under the age of 18. i would point out that the report makes no reference to breast implants for preventive therapeutic purposes, when the results of predictive genetic tests, which are increasingly used in the field of cancer, have shown a high risk of carcinogenesis in patients, especially in the case of children of mothers who have cancer, and this is a practice which will become more and more widespread. as regards paragraph 10a, i would point out that in all the member states of the union the informed consent of the patient is already in use, a mandatory instrument signed by patients after receiving all the relevant information, before any therapeutic act, including implantation of prostheses. i therefore think it is superfluous to talk about a passport. i also think it is useful to set up a european register and a national register for the collection of data on breast implants, which are implanted for both aesthetic and therapeutic reasons. in addition, an annual check by a senologist with a free ultrasound is important, without the need for invasive examinations such as mammography and ct scans, which still subject the patient to radiation and prove to be more expensive practices for national health services. the collection of data on implanted prostheses and the regulated follow-up would facilitate the collection of case data for a more precise assessment, which would certainly give all women a sense of security.
mr. deputy, the relevant departments will check. however, the house has spoken and therefore we cannot go back on this vote. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
- this concludes voting time. (the sitting was suspended at 12.45 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, the political situation in venezuela deserves the utmost sensitivity and attention from the european parliament. my group condemns first of all the perpetrators of the coup of 11 april, who irresponsibly tried to overthrow the democratic, legitimate and constitutional institutions of the country. we condemn in particular the complicity of the council of the european union with the coup plotters. we have not yet forgotten that the presidency of the union will immediately issue a statement of support for the coup plotters, opening a black page in the history of european diplomacy. it is important to respect the venezuelan constitution, drawn up by a democratically elected assembly and equally democratically ratified by a very large majority of venezuelans. the anti-government action of that part of the opposition which is recognised in the democratic coordinator stands absolutely outside the venezuelan constitutional framework, and also responds exclusively to the economic and commercial interests of forces outside venezuela which, in order to continue to enjoy privileges and pursue particular objectives, have not hesitated to throw the entire country on the brick. this certainly does not mean uncritically endorsing every action taken by the legitimate venezuelan government. we support the moderation action of the mesa de negociaciones y acuerdos which is working in venezuela, as well as the mediation work of the carter foundation, which is based on respect for the will of the venezuelan people, who have repeatedly expressed themselves in a democratic way. it is important to recall here that president chavez has repeatedly said that he is ready to respect the venezuelan constitutional dictates and to submit to a popular consultation in the middle of his term. respect for the political experience of venezuela means respect for the dignity of a people who have decided to take their destiny into their own hands. it is also our responsibility to help this process and to ensure that the complexity of the situation in latin america does not lead to the continuing questioning of the autonomy of its peoples. that is why our group is asking for the motion for a resolution which we have drawn up together to be adopted without amendments. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the situation in venezuela continues to be very worrying, and this at a time when president lula and president gutiérrez, by their election, are raising great hopes for the democratization and rivalry of this continent. we hoped that we would no longer have to talk about attempted coups, about situations in which democratic institutions had to be overthrown. we must remember that president chavez himself, who is now under threat and who was threatened by a coup in april 2002, had himself tried to stage a coup. so we see that this type of method, however, has not yet been completely eradicated from that continent. we believe the worst is over today; we are pleased and therefore support the resolution which emphasizes this. we are pleased with the attempts at dialogue that are being built up and strengthened and we are also convinced that the international role, the positive role played by the group of friends and the organization of american states is certainly a positive innovation in latin america, where mediation in internal situations is certainly not a commonplace. we also believe that the crisis in that country, essentially the strikes and boycotts in the oil sector, have led to destabilization which is not entirely innocent. i wonder what the european union can do in this respect and i fully support what mr salafranca has just said.
mr president, i should like to take this opportunity of asking the commissioner, mrs reding, a specific question. i refer to the commission's decision, which is certainly a little embarrassing, to delete budget line b3-1026 in the sport sector, which supported the programme entitled 'sport: preparatory measures for a community policy', and this on the basis of call no 33 of 2002, published by dg culture and sport. the two themes were: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of sport. suddenly the commission said that there was no money because the costs had been absorbed by enlargement: this is a very incongruous explanation, especially since many projects had already been submitted and also because next year - you will remember this, mr president - will be the year of educating young people through sport. it was, this, a preparation program for this year, and it was suppressed: i'd like to know why.
i would like to ask you, mr president, to inform me about the european parliament's participation in the ministerial meeting of the committee on narcotic drugs, which will be held in vienna on 16 and 17 april 2003, to take stock, after the first five disastrous years, of the un's 10-year plan to combat drugs, which was supposed to lead to the elimination of drugs from the face of the earth by 2008, but which is instead leading to a renewed oppression and the suppression of individual rights and freedoms in this field. i have just returned from a trip to south america, particularly to peru, where the war to eradicate coca cultivation is destabilising the region and playing into the hands of terrorism. so there's another war to stop. there's an april meeting to take advantage of this opportunity: i hope that parliament will take part in the appropriate way and that the members will also mobilize their efforts with the governments of their countries to demand that formal requests be made for the reform and review of international conventions and international drug policies.
mr president, commissioner, i have heard it said that international trade does not create wealth. two great europeans, smith and ricardo, have explained to us that the wealth of nations derives great benefit from international trade, and so european wealth has grown. as commissioner lamy has repeatedly pointed out, further liberalisation of international trade in services is crucial for the european economy, which is mainly a service economy and can mainly export services. that is why i think we must take a very critical view of the fact that the european union, as mr clegg said a moment ago, is being pushed into a corner, on the defensive, not only in agriculture but also in international trade in services. by saying that the european union's objective is to defend and promote the european social model better, the commission is almost apologising for offering consumers more choice. you, commissioner, said that your objective was to reach negotiations in which the collective preferences or the values of our society were respected. i believe that the best way to respect the preferences of the european citizens is to open up international trade, including in the audiovisual sector. let the european citizens decide whether audiovisual products, whether cinema or otherwise, are better in europe, or whether they want those produced in europe or those from outside. and the widespread use of music and film on the internet is likely to create an age-old debate: the court of justice has held that the protection of cultural diversity in the context of audiovisual services is a presumed objective. let the citizens choose, as they do with education. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that too little is being done in the area of public utilities, water and other services. europe is showing that it can be liberalised in a regulatory environment and in ensuring the quality of services to citizens.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i disagree with the fact that parliament has betrayed the expectations of the electorate by working on this directive. i am in favour of the proposal for a directive and of the balance achieved, also thanks to the work of parliament. i believe that opening up the market can be a positive thing, also as regards access to port services, but only under the conditions which have been specified and introduced by parliament's amendments: the commission has also decided to initiate proceedings under article 93 (2) of the treaty in respect of the application of the principle of equal treatment to men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion. this must also apply to self-production. i am not ideologically opposed to self-production, but it cannot become an alibi for social dumping and savings on vocational qualifications and safety. this is competition in transparency. this also applies to new ports, to ensure that private investment is available. it should be possible and perfectly fine to manage services and benefits directly, but only if these conditions are met: the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. without these conditions, we would be calling things by the same name which are so different that they would not serve either the interests we represent or the objectives we want to achieve with this directive. i hope that the balance achieved by parliament can be safeguarded.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, i also thank the rapporteurs, but i would particularly like to thank president prodi for stating a political fact in a very profound speech: the european union must go forward with its plans and ambitions. the historic objective we are about to achieve - enlargement of the union - deserves the widest possible consistency in budgetary choices. in this respect too parliament intends to play its part, which is not that of the notary who simply documents and accepts the choices of others. the four main european policies that are relevant to enlargement are: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a common position on the following: cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy, network policy and cooperation policy for small and mediumsized enterprises. the way in which these policies are redefined and the weight they have in budgetary choices will be a major determinant of the success of enlargement and integration. i just want to say two things: firstly, i believe that the financial allocation of the tens and the union's contribution should be reconsidered, procedures simplified, the north-south axis relaunched alongside the east-west axis; secondly, i believe that the internationalisation of smes and their capacity to partner with smes in the candidate countries must be strengthened. to this end, it would be useful to strengthen the existing instruments, the current pilot project 'enlargement and smes' and to take the opportunity of the mid-term review of 'agenda 2000' for a clear strengthening of measures aimed at the internationalisation of small and medium-sized enterprises.
the rapporteur. mr president, today's vote on these four reports marks the end of a long process of modifying the comitology system in force since 1987, a process which began in 1998 with the commission's proposal and continued with the adoption in june 1999 of the new council decision and which we are now finally completing by voting on these four reports, the adaptation of all existing committees to the system in force since 1999: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. four years to adapt the hundreds of committees to the new system and to prepare the vote we are about to cast today. this alone is enough to show that there is still a lot to be done to give the union a system for implementing the rules which is transparent, simple and helps to improve the still unsatisfactory quality of implementation of community rules. parliament has worked hard to improve the comitology system substantially. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the patient and precise work of the rapporteur of those years, adelaide aglietta, who succeeded in getting parliament fully involved in the negotiations on comitology, something which was not at all achieved in those years. i am convinced that the proposals on comitology presented by the commission in december and those proposed in the recent articles submitted to the convention are also the result of that work. if in 1999 it was not possible to achieve what parliament has always sought, namely parity with the council and the possibility of revoking an implementing provision when it was considered to be contrary to the will of the legislator, this road seems open today. the intransigence and formalism of the commission and the council prevented us from achieving that result, and we had to content ourselves with a modest alarm system. today, thanks to that year and a half of patient and sometimes obscure work, the commission seems to have changed its position and the convention seems well-placed to overcome the bureaucratic reservations of governments. i hope very much that soon the reports we are voting on today will also be forgotten, will be outdated and that the comitology system with its mysteries will be bound to the history books.
mr president, this is merely a procedural remark. i think the honourable member has asked for a split vote, and there are rules for that. so if this can be done, well, it will be a precedent that we will hopefully use.
in writing. - (it) we can only agree with the perspectives presented; the priorities of accession of ten new states, stability and sustainable growth cannot be denied or postponed. and yet the vision of the immediate future is not as optimistic as it seems to be when reading the commission document. with regard to accession, with all that has happened in recent weeks between the president of a member state and the candidate countries and with the recent statements by the president of the convention about the risk that the convention will not be able to complete its work within the time limits, a doubt - which we hope is unfounded - hangs over our optimistic visions: will we succeed in enforcing the scheduled dates for accession? because otherwise many points of the strategy would be naïve hopes. the objective of stability is also a priority to be pursued. and yet we know how difficult it is to create all the conditions that can guarantee it. we must also work to ensure sustainable growth. and yet, with almost five million unemployed in the federal republic and with the negative rates also recorded in so many other countries - members or candidates - how can we be optimistic about this priority? (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
madam president, madam commissioner, there is no doubt that mr mann has done a very good job. its proposals are based on the highest community tradition in social and employment policy and incorporate, at the propositional level, also innovative and far-reaching aspects and fields, such as the knowledge society and its strategic implications. the following considerations are not intended to be critical, but rather to express a shared hope, even if they are feared to be rather ephemeral, such as the one concerning small and mediumsized enterprises, for which various aspects have been highlighted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the stability pact and its enforcement, especially when it comes to total exemption for the first three years, given their important contribution to national gdps; or the review of the subjects covered by the subsidiarity system; or the review of matters for which the council must vote unanimously. and this is not because of pessimism but, unfortunately, because of realism. as a further example on the financial front, it is sufficient to mention the desirable policies of credit to small and medium-sized enterprises, which, in contrast to the contents of the basel accord of 2002, seem to penalize the necessary provision of adequate risk capital for the small and medium-sized enterprises themselves and for their internationalisation. the same applies to employment-related incentives, as the rapporteur calls them, which are considered to be something other than flexibility and bureaucratic relief. if they are, then they directly challenge the state aid rules, which are based on article 87 (3) (a) and (c) of the treaty of amsterdam and which, as the rapporteur knows, apply only to areas identified in 1998, with no possibility of correction, except for changed situations over time. but the role of the social partners, which the rapporteur has rightly emphasized, is also worth mentioning. the european social dialogue has not yet been able to provide for minimum social standards for enterprises, especially in the countries of central and eastern europe, although a large proportion of these enterprises are from the present member states: this situation, which in those countries is usually combined with reduced taxation and a gradual awareness of the community acquis on environmental matters, is certainly creating new jobs, but it does not, however, give hope, even in the medium term, of the recovery of obvious social gaps. the last aspect concerns the knowledge society, which shares the same aims and expectations. the rapporteur is aware that this society cannot be achieved by increasing the number of computers in homes and schools or by better and more targeted training, which is necessary, but is based both on the full and congenial use of useful information and on the possibility of making use of such information. the feared truth, in conclusion, is that despite all the continuous and repeated emphasis on the importance of employment and social policies and their horizontal integration with other policies, they remain a kind of simple derivative: the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is a derivative of the fact that, in member states which are unaware of the content of the european social agenda, the aseptic display of results, positive or negative in terms of quantity, is unfortunately accompanied, in terms of quality, by a constant rhetoric and an equally constant downward spiral.
mr president, unlike the rapporteur before me, i believe that the european employment strategy has played an important role in the fight against unemployment and has had a positive influence on national labour market policies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the lisbon summit was a key milestone in the ambitious objectives it set itself, and it is updated annually by specific indicators. the commission's evaluation of the national plans and the recommendations made in this regard are a benchmark and an incentive to follow those countries which, more than others, are able to achieve positive results through a proactive policy involving the social partners at all levels. the european parliament has always succeeded, in its resolutions each year, in striking the right balance between flexibility and security and in placing economic, employment and social policy on an equal footing. now, in the face of the new generation of guidelines proposed by the commission, which, as has been mentioned, are intended to achieve three objectives: to bring the employment rate closer to the lisbon objectives, to improve the quality of work, and to promote a labour market open to socially vulnerable groups. it is somewhat surprising that the rapporteur has proposed in committee and is proposing again in the form of amendments in the house a series of instruments: generalised tax reductions, the use of so-called small jobs, excessive flexibility, which are badly combined with the quality of work, investment in human resources, and an effective reconciliation between family and professional life that is not detrimental to safety. it seems to me that these instruments are more geared to the ideological debate in some member states - i mean my own - than to a role of stimulation and coordination by the union. in the committee this approach has been partly correct and the result is more balanced, which is why, as has already been said, we do not agree on the amendments. i want to close with a note. mr bastos rightly supported the paragraph in the resolution calling for more cooperation between universities and research centres: it is a pity that your group has proposed an amendment to replace cooperation with competition.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. we believe that any reform of the central bank must meet four conditions: decisions must be taken quickly and efficiently, the decision-making bodies must act in the interests of the euro area as a whole, the system must be neutral and balanced for current and future members, and the markets and the public at large have a right to the transparency needed to know how the system works. the model recommended by the central bank contributes to maintaining efficiency. however, its fundamental point, which i would like to develop after hearing mr friedrich's speech, the central bank's proposal, is based on the enabling clause of the treaty of nice and therefore is based only on the fact that the legally existing system cannot be changed. the commission has therefore considered that, if the european central bank's proposal is accepted as a starting point, the rotation model could be improved by reducing the maximum number of voting rights in the governing council. it should be substantially improved by changing the grouping of countries, not by inventing new weights, but by using the weighting which the bank itself has, which takes into account population on the one hand and gdp on the other. it should be improved by clarifying the frequency and sequence of rotation in this type of voting. that is the reason for our proposals. when we look at the proposals in your report, we think they are ambitious, but they raise a fundamental problem: they consider the possibility of interpretations going beyond the enabling clause. in that sense, we have two discrepancies. firstly, and this is the fundamental point, you reject the central bank model and present a counter-proposal which may be technically valid, but which is not compatible with the enabling clause. nor does the idea of double voting, of double weighting, fit in with it, since the existing rules now provide that each member of the council will have the right to one vote. these are therefore amendments which could be put forward in a different context, in a more ambitious position, such as the one you have mentioned. the problem we are facing now is whether we go ahead with the fast-track procedure and approve the central bank proposal, which will have to be done in the next few weeks if we want it to be in line with the enabling clause. in that case, of course, we will need the unanimous vote of the council of ministers, which, as you know, has not yet taken place. in any case, the commission, like you, believes that further reform is necessary, going beyond the possibilities provided for by the enabling clause, and that we must be prepared to deal with it again at the next intergovernmental conference on the basis of a different model. this can be done - as has been very well said - at the intergovernmental conference, but not under the enabling clause which we have at present.
mr president, commissioner, we are faced with a compromise which has achieved one clear objective: the european central bank has a clearer vision of the future of the union than the one of unanimous consent within the governing council, which is not exactly what the european central bank needs in view of enlargement. the balance of power and responsibility between parliaments, governments and independent authorities the independence of the european central bank is a valuable asset that has worked well and must be protected it does not imply that independent authorities decide on the way they operate or, as in this case, on changes to the mechanisms of operation, especially when it comes to enlarging a club. it is clear that the existing members of the club have put forward a proposal which, first of all, protects themselves and their prerogatives against, in some way, the prerogatives of the members who will join this club later. it's very clear. i believe that there is a serious flaw in the method which has led to this situation and to a proposal which has a number of shortcomings, which have already been pointed out by mr huhne, who said that the hierarchy between countries is questionable. i do not blame mr goebbels, but i too think that luxembourg's role cannot be greater than poland's, just to give an example. the european central bank's proposal is, of course, in keeping with the treaty of nice, which provided that the council could decide on a proposal from either the ecb or the commission. i think it is the commission which should, in a way, reset the situation and make its own proposal, taking account of parliament's indications. the ecb will be consulted, but it cannot be the initiator of this decision which concerns it so closely.
mr president, the accession of new member states will further widen the borders of europe, in line with the increasing influence that the union will have on the continent, with the development of proximity policies that will create new potential partners who, in the future, could become new acceding countries, as has happened with the countries currently in the process of accession. but it seems hard to imagine an even wider europe without starting a debate which is now becoming impetuous: what can be the ultimate limits of europe? if you look south, towards the african shores of the mediterranean, you will find situations which have never proved to share with europe parameters of development or ideologies, political and religious convictions, except perhaps for lebanon and israel; if you look to the east, you might think about opening up to the republics of ukraine and georgia. the european union is a global player in the world economy. what are the maximum limits we can imagine in order not to drown the union in a free trade area, in the light of the claim to arrive at a union which does not have to go down the drain whenever major international issues are dealt with, as has unfortunately happened in recent days? the debate on which countries will be called upon to join the union and with which countries only privileged relations of cooperation will be necessary will therefore have to be approached with great care, since cooperation may not only concern trade actions but also sensitive relations such as respect for human rights and the control of migration flows.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the final report by mr garcía-margallo has highlighted the need to anchor the broad economic policy guidelines and the objectives of coordination of the economic and social policies of the member states in future to the objectives set by the decisions of the lisbon european council, particularly as regards investment in research, lifelong learning and european infrastructure, and as regards the efficiency of public services in conjunction with the protection of the general interest to which they are linked, or as regards a strategy for active ageing which contributes to a significant increase in the working population and employment. this choice, which involves the indication of binding milestones in the implementation of the lisbon strategy as an integral part of the broad economic policy guidelines, cannot but involve - and this is the subject of my report - the stability and growth pact, which still lacks binding indicators as regards, in fact, growth and the quality of growth or the coordination of budgetary policies, as mr dos santos rightly argues. the question i ask explicitly at this point, mr commissioner, is whether the lisbon objectives are compatible with the objectives of the stability and growth pact, whether and to what extent the objectives of lisbon also apply to the member states of monetary union and how, if so, to make them as binding as those laid down in the stability and growth pact. if the answer is yes, as i believe, then the problem arises of how to coordinate, reconcile and synergize the different areas of union action in the fields of economic policy, social policy and employment, sustainable development, financial stability and growth. this is not, of course, a formal matter, but a choice which must affect the objectives and the way in which the stability pact is managed. in this new context, the management of the stability pact cannot remain concentrated in periods when there is a risk of deviation from the objectives and constraints of the pact in terms of budget deficits or public debt, constraints which we do not intend to call into question, especially in the difficult and uncertain phase we are going through. the stability and growth pact should, in fact, also restrict the behaviour of the member states of the monetary union during periods of growth, in order to prevent the conditions for a subsequent departure from the objectives of the stability pact being created by choices which depart from the lisbon strategy during those periods. the commission cannot be indifferent to an economic policy which, in a period of growth, favours current spending over public and private investment, and to a policy aimed at meeting the lisbon objectives in terms of research and development, training and infrastructure integrated into europe in a timely manner by 2010. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer is a very good one. the question now arises as to whether investments to achieve the lisbon objectives are an aggravating rather than a mitigating factor in the event of a risk of deviation from the 3% constraint and whether they cannot be made compatible with greater financial rigour to meet the criteria of the stability pact. i hope that similar considerations and similar opportunities will be taken into account, all together, at the next spring summit and i would like to remind you, in conclusion, that there is a need for institutionalised coordination of the economic and social policies of the euro area, a coordination capable of taking decisions by majority and demonstrating, also in the work of the convention, that the enlargement of the union, which we want to achieve with all our strength, will not stifle the dynamism, i would say the vitality of the european union on the way to new and more advanced forms of integration.
mr president, commissioner, the reports under discussion today are dense, important documents - i think that this should be acknowledged first of all by the rapporteurs - and they represent an important contribution to the debate on the policy guidelines for public finances in europe. in their current form, the radical members will support them. i do not want to go into the details of individual reports, but i would like to take this opportunity to make some more general remarks. firstly, i think it would be useful to be a little wary of the slogans and the bogus objectives, such as the lisbon objectives, which are constantly mentioned. it has already been said and i quote again that europe has at some point decided to set itself a new strategic objective for the new decade: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in all member states. in addition to constantly reiterating these objectives and analysing them - the european parliament is a political forum, not a think tank - i think we should discuss why these ambitious objectives are not being achieved and what are the political costs that europe does not have the courage to face in order to turn them into reality, into concrete reforms: the commission has already made a number of proposals for reforms. i believe that the very structure of the european economy must be called into question. we are constantly, proudly, invoking the european social model and the social market economy, but then in the reports, i think perhaps in that of mr garcía-margallo, we explicitly write that the fate of the european social model is anchored to the american economic recovery: if there is no economic recovery in america, there will be no economic growth in europe and our model of society, so much vaunted, will be in much more difficult times than we are in today. the economic crisis in germany is a sign of the crisis of an old economic model, of an old europe which no longer knows how to take risks. we have repeatedly said in our reports that we need more public investment - we do not know with what money - and more private investment. i do not believe that private investment in europe is low and depressed because of the interest rate and that therefore our only objective should be to put pressure on the european central bank to have a more relaxed interest rate policy and thus allow private investment. private investment will not increase because of low interest rates, but it will if and when we face a more flexible economy, with massive injections of flexibility. there is a political cost to flexibility reforms, and that's what we don't talk about: it is politically costly to intervene in the structure of the labour market, against the big monopoly lobbies half of the public budget of the european union is invested in agricultural subsidies and protectionism and it is politically costly to think that these resources can be used as a steering wheel to launch a new season of investment in high technology and scientific research. i would like to conclude with a note on the social security question: the need for strict public budgets depends first of all on the need to have room in public budgets for the problems of an ageing population and to address the costs of structural reform of social security systems. we owe this to the future generations of european citizens.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, in this house, as in the united nations, the alternative which seems inevitable is between war, with or without the approval of the security council, and the weak but appealing position of those who are calling for more time for inspections, making a strong case for british and american military pressure on saddam's regime and, in fact, making inspections an end in itself, knowing full well that it is unlikely that hans blix and his men will be able to disarm saddam on their own. yet even this morning many colleagues condemned saddam's regime, calling for democracy and freedom for the iraqi people. we radicals, along with hundreds of other personalities and parliamentarians from many countries, are convinced that there is still time and room for another scenario: the dictator's exile from baghdad as the only real means of averting war. it is a scenario that some arab governments in the region have been working on for some time and that could be done by the union itself in view of the next security council resolution. then there's the post-saddam, which no one has talked about today: we are convinced that this scenario must be accompanied by the united nations taking over the provisional administration of iraq for at least two years. only a un administration can be accepted and help put a country on the right track under one of the most brutal dictatorships known. i hope, mr president-in-office, that europe can still speak with one voice on this basis.
what can europe do in the hour of decision on the iraq crisis? i say europe, mr president, even before parliament or the council or the commission, and i am thinking of the european people, who are very much opposed to a war to disarm iraq and, even more so, to a war to change the regime in iraq. the european council of 17 february adopted the following position: the war must be an extreme measure and, in any case, it cannot be waged outside the specific mandate of the united nations. let us remember: parliament voted a resolution calling on the security council to take action against saddam hussein for the very serious crimes he has committed against humanity. we strongly affirm this, because that dictatorship left a terrible trail of blood. that is why we must disarm iraq, but through the un; we must support the democratization of iraq, but through the un. the unilateral war is tearing up the un, tearing up the atlantic alliance, putting europe in crisis. we tell some of our european brothers that a vote in the security council against the brussels document, against the will of parliament, against the commission's opinion, would strike europe in the heart. article 19 of the treaty on european union provides that member states, which are also permanent members of the security council, shall ensure the defence of the union's positions and interests. what happened to the former yugoslavia? the security council could not decide to intervene in kosovo, but nato did so with the consent of the european council. the authority and authority of our american ally and friend are also at stake, as is the brotherhood between our peoples, which has never been closer since 9/11, and which is now more threatened on the eve of an unnecessary, unjust and unlawful war. let america know that here are gathered the elected representatives of the people who are fighting anti-americanism and who therefore demand from america more respect for the ideas and convictions of europe. president, if there is disarmament of iraq without war, it will be the victory of reason, it will be the victory of the un, it will also be the victory of the military pressure of america and britain and the commitment against unilateralism by france, germany and europe. if there is a war, it will be a disaster. let us therefore unite against the dictatorship of saddam hussein, for the freedom of the iraqi people; we keep the war out of the young ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the news coming from new york this morning, which suggests that the ultimatum may be postponed, gives us hope that the iraqi crisis can be resolved without the use of weapons. the willingness of the united states and britain to postpone the date of saddam hussein's ultimatum opens up new prospects for peace. these are still the days of politics and diplomacy and every attempt must be made to avert war: this is not an impossible goal. it is first of all - and i agree with president poettering - for saddam hussein to proceed without hesitation and without delay to the destruction of the prohibited weapons. it is up to saddam hussein to cooperate without delay with the un inspectors. and the iraqi dictator is also left with the option of leaving his country, to free it from an illiberal regime and return it to democracy: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. but europe too must make its strong voice heard, avoiding divisions and conflicts. the document adopted on 17 february must be the starting point for action by the council and the commission, and it is the primary duty of all the political forces represented in this parliament to work to ensure that the credibility of the united nations is not undermined and reduced. europe's policy and diplomacy must work to prevent this institution, in which we all identify ourselves, from being deprived of its role as an instrument for the protection of international law as a result of the international crisis, and we must also work to prevent the credibility of another multilateral body, the atlantic alliance, from being undermined. we therefore have a duty, mr president, to work for the unity of europe. the divisions that have emerged in recent weeks must be overcome with the extraordinary commitment of all: a weak and divided europe is not good for the cause of peace. we must learn from the difficulties so that europe can once again play a leading role on the international stage. but, mr president, we must not forget the relationship and the shared values that bind us to the united states of america, a country that was gravely wounded by the attacks of 11 september, attacks which also wounded each one of us, each european, and we must not leave washington alone. that is why every action of international diplomacy these days cannot but be aimed at building a result to solve the iraqi crisis. the european union and the united states must find common initiatives in the international order.
- mr president, i have to go. i voted for the ayuso gonzález report with great conviction, and i agree with the overwhelming majority of this house - there were only five members who did not vote in favour, and this should also be a signal to those parts of the council which have tried to prevent or delay the favourable treatment of biofuels. there are only positive arguments in favour of biofuels: a move away from over-dependence, more environmental compatibility and an increase in income opportunities for farms. it is therefore incomprehensible that there is so little sensitivity in some parts of the council, as in the case of the promotion of electricity from renewable sources. i hope that this joint vote by the european parliament will also shake up the council, that it will show sensitivity and that we will thus achieve greater environmental compatibility, a strengthening of agriculture and, above all, less dependence in the energy sector.
mr president, the karas report contains a directive on supplementary pension funds. the pensioners' party is absolutely in favour of this report and, above all, of europe's regulation and strengthening of the funded pension funds, which will certainly be better than the distributive funds which individual governments have not been able to administer properly. i regret, however, mr president, that a fatuzzo amendment calling for member states to intervene in the event of bankruptcy or insolvency of pension funds was not accepted in the committee on employment, where we discussed it. i hope that in the next version of the directive we will be able to do so.
mr president, this document deals with the strategy for employment and social policy. i voted in favour of course, but i would like to make a point. i often hear from some very enlightened and important economists that the employment strategy cannot be separated from the pension strategy. if we are talking about increasing employment in europe, we must also talk about reforming the pensions of those who work. but i would like to emphasize, mr president: you must say bread to bread and wine to wine; you have to say what you think. when we talk about the european employment strategy, we are talking about increasing jobs in europe. when we talk about the european pension strategy, we unfortunately talk about reducing and cutting pensions. let us ask ourselves what he means by the words he utters.
mr president, even in the broad economic policy guidelines, which are mainly concerned with balancing the budgets of the individual member states of the european union, there is no mention - and i, although i voted in favour, am concerned about this - of what is being done to repair the state budget whenever there is talk of budgets that would be burdened, run down, ruined by the large number of pensioners whose pensions are paid for by the state budget. i would ask you, mr president, and i would also like to ask the heads of government and the council: do we want to first determine how much to pay in pensions to citizens and then spend what we have left over, or do we want to spend the entire state budget first and, if we get something - i repeat, if we get something - give the crumbs to pensioners?
mr president, we are talking about the finances of the countries that have adopted the euro. i voted in favour, i am in favour of the euro, but i want to stress today, at this hour, before i give everyone a good appetite: the president, the interpreters, the ushers included, that it would be good for the governments of the states which have adopted the euro to be vigilant, something they have not done until now, that unscrupulous traders, businessmen who think only of themselves do not raise the price of the consumer goods that citizens, workers and pensioners, that is, people with a fixed income, buy. in fact, taking advantage of the fact that, in the changeover from the national currency to the european currency, the euro, people were not accustomed to the value of the new currency, as certainly happened in italy but i believe also in other states of the european union, the cost of products that are mostly bought by the less well off, especially pensioners and citizens with, unfortunately, modest incomes, has been increased immeasurably.
mr president, commissioner, the european union's first military mission coincides with a historic moment and, unfortunately, with a new, possible destabilisation in the balkans, which shows how fragile the fabric is. the serbian leaders have been very safe lately, knowing that when steps towards normalization are being made faster and faster, there is the greatest danger. unfortunately, it did not help. the murder of zoran djindjic, amongst others, has implications for the formulation of certain amendments to the resolution we are about to vote on. it seems to me that the request for a period of two months is too short for the european community to monitor the results of the mission. in another context, this morning, commissioner patten, speaking of the action of the european union, said that military and political intergovernmental is a poor thing, and added, more or less, that it produces inconsistent initiatives. of course it is, and we must take that into account. but now we are off to macedonia and, for better or worse, we will have to clarify certain points and discuss them in this house. something we've learned in the last hour, something we may learn later, that we don't know yet. i would like to know, for example, how the command structures work, from the base to brussels, the relationship between nato and eu departments, the division of costs and, of course, to what extent cooperation with the macedonian government and army has been planned and implemented. military expenditure is the responsibility of national parliaments, but the european union should manage financial operations on a common basis and parliament should exercise its control function.
mr president, i fully agree with what mr hernández mollar said. we are aware of the security needs of the united states, but, commissioners, it is the charter of fundamental rights of the union, which the commission has committed itself to respecting, which enshrines the fundamental right to the protection of personal data and it is the 1995 directive, proposed by the commission and approved by us, which lays down the rules for the protection of that data. this directive requires the commission, through a specified and planned procedure, to ascertain whether the third country provides adequate protection for the data of our citizens transferred there, and if not, to open negotiations, find remedies and submit the findings to the scrutiny of the european parliament. now, in our case, the transfer of passengers' personal data by airlines operating to the united states, which was required by the us authorities under laws of 2001 and 2002, presents serious problems of compatibility with european legislation, especially as regards the provision of direct access by the american customs service to the reservation systems and passenger name registers of our airlines. i would point out, inter alia, that the data acquired may also contain information of a financial or medical, religious or ethnic nature, which may also concern persons other than passengers bound for the united states - on the basis of that direct access - that the data may be transferred to other entities without the consent and control of the persons concerned, and that the united states legislation protects only american citizens. now, in this situation, the commission failed to inform parliament acknowledged this failed to inform the european citizens before the entry into force on 5 march of the obligations for airlines and did not carry out the due verification of the existence of adequate protection in a timely manner, but instead relied on statements by officials, press releases and assurances about future action. in this way, a fundamental right of european citizens is now at risk. airlines and national data protection authorities are in a situation of legal uncertainty, exposed to legal action for breach of national laws or to risks of serious economic damage. the commissioners responsible must assume their responsibilities promptly, obtain a temporary suspension of the effects of the existing rules, ask for formal and verifiable guarantees, obtain the opinions provided for in the directives and submit a decision, in accordance with article 25 of the directive, to the european parliament. if not, i believe that the european parliament will have to consider whether to go to the court of justice to ensure the protection of the citizens of europe.
mr commissioner, first of all i would like to comment on the procedure: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the problem is that it seems to us at least possible that from that act, from those joint declarations - first those of february, then those of march - there were derived the legal effects, actions, exchanges of data and information which were made on the basis of those meetings and those declarations. the joint declaration issued by the two parties in february already mentions that data of a more sensitive nature must be processed and are in accordance with european union legislation. this statement is also an assessment of the data transfer arrangements, a final assessment, has a regulatory value and, in fact, serves to legitimize an exchange of data that already existed; the commission also recommends that the united states should take appropriate measures to ensure that the data subject is protected from unauthorised access to the united states' data. this is another recommendation which has value and legislative effect: the commission says 'do not intervene' on airlines that are transferring data in accordance with us law. i believe that there is at least the possibility and the doubt that this act should be treated as a legislative act, against which parliament can bring an action before the court of justice. i also believe that this procedure could help the commission itself and the european union itself to strengthen its position in a dialogue which must be conducted on an equal footing, on an equal footing, between a market of 250 million people and a market of 350 million people, because we must take very seriously the fact that, even today, the collection of this data and its transfer to the united states cannot comply with community legislation. contrary to what the commission has said in its joint statements, the collection of data on data which has a commercial purpose and is then used for security or intelligence purposes is in itself a breach of the principle of necessity and the principle of proportionality, which are included in community legislation. in fact, there is a situation of so-called generalized surveillance, which is contrary to community legislation, not that it could be contrary or that we should verify that it is contrary. so the problem is to open formal, official negotiations to see what agreement, what compromise can be found, but it is not possible to resolve the issue in advance, thus, in fact, legitimizing a data transfer that has already begun. that is why this parliament must continue along this path, and i believe it is precisely to give the commission and the community institutions more power.
mr president, commissioner, despite all this, i am one of those who are still trying to understand the underlying reasons which led the united states to take this measure. we know them: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty, and it has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty, and it has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty. we all know - it has already been mentioned, but i will repeat it so that the memory is refreshed at the end of the debate - that the most serious and controversial point is the one mentioned in recital b of the resolution, where it is stated that, initially, the united states had simply asked for these data to be made available. in italy there is a saying: "asking is allowed, answering is polite"; the only problem is that the united states did not have the courtesy to wait for our decision, but immediately proceeded to the second phase of its action. they immediately took advantage of this data, even threatening to fine companies with €1,000 per person for not making this information available. and what information, commissioner, mr president! not just name and surname and travel reference, but even all the information on credit cards, news about other travels of these passengers, data, for example, that could trace back to the connotations of ethnic and religious character of the passengers, medical data, addresses of all kinds, profession, membership of certain groups, and so on. the commission justified this measure by saying that the airlines did not want to take the trouble of creating filters and therefore gave immediate access fearing, among other things, the fine of €1000. the commission also said that this would avoid annoying queues for passengers on arrival at various destinations in the united states. well, that seems like a childish explanation to say the least: the court of first instance has already held that the commission's role is to ensure that the directives, and hence community law, are complied with. another point of contention: the commission had known for 15 months, as has been mentioned, that the united states would bring this measure into force on 5 march. the commission's task would have been to inform the european citizens and the european parliament in good time, and the european parliament would have been the automatic sounding board. even the us congress seems to have had little respect for democracy: has never discussed this measure; the commission has simply interpreted the legislation in a broad way, so to speak, and has therefore taken action. i'd say this is a time of serious casualness, too. the only point of contact is the famous agreement of 19 february between the senior officials, which is not a written agreement, it has no validity, much less the validity of bringing us to the court of justice. the commission is asked what the legal basis of this agreement is and what the european interest is being protected in this case. in order to clarify these and other points, the european parliament has now called a public hearing and perhaps after this hearing we will firstly know a little more about how this could have happened and secondly, above all, we will have some clearer idea of what is best to do now, avoiding emotional schizophrenia and agreeing common and consistent standards to be enforced in the future.
- i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. see minutes of the sitting. the commissioner, it seems to me that at the end of this debate all the reasons for perplexity remain. in your initial speech you said: 'there is no decision, there is no agreement', but all the members insisted on the contrary that the answers on this point were not clear. finally, i regret to ask you to be quite brief in your answer, because we have to make room for question time.
council as regards the first point, as i mentioned, discussions on the final regime have not yet started, and of course, when and if necessary, various groups can be set up, as you have stressed. what has been attempted is to have discussions between belgrade and pristina on issues of common interest, such as the return of refugees, security issues, network issues, energy issues, etc., where cooperation is needed, which will help to build greater trust between the two sides for further discussion on the final regime in the next phase. so, regardless of what the constitution of yugoslavia or the new state of serbia and montenegro says, the debate on the final status has not taken place and will of course take place on the basis of, as i said, the un resolutions. the un resolutions are well known, i do not need to mention them at this time. it is security council resolution 1244.
- minister, you say we have to wait. we have just heard of the assassination of prime minister djindjic in belgrade. for many european capitals, it was a long wait for the arrest of war criminals mladic and karadzic. we can see where this is going. in kosovo, the situation has certainly not improved; the relationship between the serb minority and the kosovo albanian majority is not improving. could we not, as we have done in the case of cyprus, begin to look calmly at the scenarios indicated by mr posselt? it seems to me - and i would like to have confirmation from you, if possible - that the high representative, mr solana, would be working on the scenarios mentioned by mr posselt. do you have any more specific information about this?
council i would like to reply to mr dupuis that, as regards the western balkan countries he refers to, albania, bosnia and herzegovina, croatia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, serbia and montenegro, their european perspective as potential candidate member states was confirmed at the zagreb summit between the european union and these countries in november 2000, on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in feira on 19 and 20 june 2000. the copenhagen european council in december last year also recalled the criteria for the nomination of one member, which had been set by the copenhagen european council itself in june 1993. the european union is also committed to the development of the western balkans, and has confirmed the european perspective of the western balkan countries. he also underlined his determination to support their efforts to move closer to the european union, and in this way welcomed the decision and priority, if you will, set by the greek presidency to hold a summit in thessaloniki on 21 june. the summit will be held between the member states of the european union and the countries of the western balkans region. the greek presidency's work programme for enlargement expressly provides that the presidency will continue and intensify cooperation with the countries of the region to promote their fullest possible integration into the political and economic core of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council also recalls that, among these countries, croatia submitted an application for accession on 21 february 2003. the council will shortly assess this request in order to submit it to the commission, which will of course assess this nomination in depth in order to give its opinion before a decision is taken in the council on its nomination. but i think that this candidacy is indicative of the interest of the region in its own european path and of the importance that the european union has acquired, of the magnet, if you will, that the european union is for this region, which allows us to hope that it will be an important incentive for the necessary reforms in this region, reforms which are very important for the stability of the balkans. it is therefore clear that the thessaloniki summit will mark a new milestone in the special relationship between the european union and the western balkans. the european union and its member states are linked to the south caucasus countries, armenia, azerbaijan and georgia, as well as moldova, by partnership and cooperation agreements. the european union is committed to contributing to the consolidation of the rule of law, economic reform, peace, security and stability in these countries, none of which has so far applied for membership.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, thank you very much for that very detailed reply. i have a question. you yourself say that croatia has already applied for membership and macedonia has announced that it will do the same in the autumn. in view of these forthcoming accessions, would it not be more politically interesting for the european union to propose that these countries be included in the list of candidate countries, which is legally and politically different from the formal opening of negotiations? as regards the countries of the caucasus, where i have had the opportunity to travel very often, i have always noted that the greek ambassadors were the most attentive to the need to ensure a clear perspective for the integration of these countries into the european union. you know as well as i do that the destabilisation by a large neighbour has produced absolutely devastating effects, that it is a vicious circle, that these countries, without a clear option of accession, will not be able to break out of this spiral. so do you not think it would be urgent for the union to propose the same to these countries?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. mr president, i am speaking as chairman of the committee on legal affairs, which has dealt with this matter quite spontaneously, as mr gröner knows, and i am expressing a favourable opinion, albeit with some emphasis, because the objective of gender equality, as laid down in the treaty and the charter of fundamental rights, is an important objective, which parliament would do well to discuss. applying equality means, as mr gröner said, intervening in the political and administrative decision-making processes, by encouraging decisions which take account of the objectives we are trying to achieve. the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities therefore proposes that parliament adopt an action plan to be accompanied by measures which are, of course, provided for in the rules of procedure and are aimed at achieving the objectives we want to achieve. it is a process, mr president, which has its expansions in social structures and institutions and which, of course, must see effective equality as the achievement of substantial equality of rights and fundamental duties in an open, globalized society which wants to give due weight to all cultural expressions. and i believe that expressions of equality have a deep cultural content. i believe that it is essential that there should be a high-level political group to balance the presence of women in the governing bodies of parliament, in parliament as a whole, also in view of enlargement which must take account of the aims we want to achieve. so let us emphasize here tonight, in the opinion which the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has wished to formulate and which i wish to express in this house, that we have referred to the 2002 report by mrs lalumière, which was approved by the bureau. the report, in addition to providing for the appointment of a higher proportion of women at a1 and a3 levels in the coming years, provides for the systematic application of the principle of preference in the field of career development. now, this principle was considered by the legal affairs committee to be somewhat exaggerated, a little beyond the aims we are trying to achieve, because it is contrary to the - i think quite enlightened - case law of the court, which naturally considers that it is contrary to national legislation to automatically grant preference to candidates of different sex who are considered to be suitable for promotion, on the basis of equal qualifications. that preference must, of course, be given considerable consideration in advance in the context of competitions, but it cannot be a practical constraint on the actual result. in other words, to give absolute and unconditional preference to the under-represented sex in the event of appointment or promotion is, according to what the court has established, tantamount not only to going beyond the objective of promoting equal opportunities, but also to substituting for that objective an outcome of equal representation which can only be achieved by implementing the same objective. now, this philosophy of the court and this fundamental principle that, with a certain degree of restraint, determines a substantial balance of decisions, i think it is appropriate that they should be adopted as the appropriate instruments which parliament must provide in order to achieve a more mature equality, which is an achievement in the process of social and cultural life.
mr president, i too would like to thank mrs avilés for her excellent report and, to be honest, there is not much to add to what she has written and to what has been said this evening. i would therefore like to focus on the lessons we should learn from the report by mr avilés perea, from the words of the commissioner and, i believe, also from the report by mr gröner. first of all, i think it is important to say that these two owninitiative reports are intended to be a tool and a stimulus for the next steps that the commission, parliament and the member states will have to take, precisely because they focus on the tools that we must have at our disposal, both in the planning phase and in the assessment phase of the impact that the policies we are setting out have on the concrete and real lives of our fellow citizens, and especially of women. i think there are some important, positive examples in this respect: the indicators defined in the european employment strategy and the impact assessment carried out by the commission can be a great reference point for doing the same in other policies, for example in the evaluation of structural fund programmes, and i was pleased to hear the commissioner say tonight that it is precisely in the medium-term review that these elements will be taken into account. the tools of statistics, women's representation in decision-making bodies and committees and indicators for impact assessment should therefore be developed; i believe that these will be supplemented by another instrument, which we are developing as a guideline in the committee on women's rights, namely the gender budgeting. i believe that this will be an important package on which we can work together to influence, to some extent, the implementation of these policies at all levels in the member states: national, regional and local. i think we should give more information about the tools available, evaluate the positive things that have been done even if we are not satisfied with the end, because there is still a lot to do but we should not be discouraged by the fact that we do not have tools available: we have the tools. let's try to use them too!
mr president, i feel obliged to make a few comments on mr bösch's report on the protection of the community's financial interests and the fight against fraud, a report which has its own consistency, its own merits and which has already been properly assessed in this debate tonight. however, in this text, the chapter 'strengthening the judicial dimension' paragraphs 58 to 65 interferes, as has also been pointed out here, with the establishment of the european public prosecutor, on which the legal affairs committee which i have the honour of chairing gave its negative opinion and then found points of compromise with respect to the theato report, which we will have to examine in more detail; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. now, this anticipation, which is also in some ways fragmented by the measure which will be discussed at the end of march in the brussels mini-summit, i do not think it will rationalize the legislative system either. the legislative simplification we are talking about is an advance which, in practice, puts the cart a little ahead of the horse and in respect of which we are obliged to table amendments. the proposal to create a european public prosecutor's office, with jurisdiction to prosecute cases and offences affecting the financial interests of the community, is quite unacceptable to the committee on legal affairs, because the legal order of the european union does not provide for either powers in the field of criminal procedure or a judiciary with all the levels of jurisdiction, which can guarantee the full right of defence. in the absence of this context, the creation of a european public prosecutor is illogical and unjustified, and i would like to stress this and also say this to the commissioner, who has somewhat hastily shelved the problem. we must think carefully, because the creation of such a body is premature, given that the objectives of judicial cooperation - which prevails here - have not been achieved and that it is necessary to harmonize the rules on criminal matters of the bodies of the member states. the court of justice cannot simply be given jurisdiction in criminal matters: the court of justice and the court of first instance were set up for different purposes and therefore there is no need to create a european public prosecutor when it is enough to strengthen judicial cooperation, based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the criterion we must bear in mind. we must therefore proceed to deepening the competences of eurojust and to strengthening and coordinating these powers at european level. the amendments tabled are therefore intended to clarify matters. the rest of the relationship can be fine. we are very concerned that, with the sole exception of italy, where the judicial system is being changed at the very moment we are speaking, in no other european country do prosecutors enjoy the same status and powers as we would like to give to the european prosecutor, which is a cause for alarm in terms of legal consistency and the european legal area. these are the concerns we will express about the european public prosecutor, but since the question is actually raised in this measure, we must raise them in this parliament now and remedy them by means of amendments.
mr president, the reports by mr patrie, mr thyssen and mr whitehead, although different, show a common thread of disappointment which, if it exists, is shared by them and by the content of their own work. the commission's assertions that the functioning of the internal market is being compromised by the fragmentation of european and national rules are undeniable. the commission has also been very active in the fight against fraud, and i am sure that the commission will be very active in this area. the need for a simple and homogeneous legal framework, consisting only of essential rules, applicable irrespective of the nature of the commercial transaction, which explicitly provide for protection throughout its entire course, including post-contractual and post-sales relations, is therefore equally indisputable. we therefore welcomed the commission's approach to the need for a global approach to the problem, on the one hand aimed at defining obligations, starting with fair commercial behaviour, and on the other, based on objective criteria, to avoid different interpretations by the member states. but if all this makes sense, it is impossible not to notice that the commission itself sometimes behaves in a heterogeneous way: firstly, there is an excessive dilution of the time with which the problem is being tackled, but not only that. the 2001 green paper on consumer protection, for example, has, as is well known, launched a season of wide consultation and valuable debate on the future of community consumer law. however, without any result, we have seen in the meantime the proposal for a regulation on the promotion of sales in the internal market, which, on the one hand, shows a lack of attention to the european parliament's own view of the global approach and, on the other, gives the paradoxical impression that it prefers to continue to follow sectoral paths. again , please . the different approaches to similar issues, such as, for example, labelling, where the presence of similar substances is regulated in a different way after a few months, are not well-suited to the desired outcome. it is considered that it is not worthwhile to object to the different use of preparations, taking as a final reference that of human health: this is the case with cosmetics and detergents. the idea is that, in order to remain in this field for a while, consumers need to know the products used, but also that, in order to do so, they need useful information, which can enable them to make choices, including political ones, directly. this is without prejudice to, and with the greatest appreciation for, the important work of the consumer protection organisation. however, if the principle is to pursue a high level of protection, while aiming at an acceptable harmonisation of the rules in the internal market, two ways appear to be possible, one consequential to the other: the first is the one mentioned by mr whitehead in considering that a case-by-case analysis is more appropriate to determine whether, in amending existing legislation or drawing up new legislation, minimum or maximum harmonisation measures are more appropriate. once this has been established, the other way is to ensure that the member states correctly transpose and apply community legislation in practice. and here again the commission has a decisive role to play, although it is true that, in general, only five states have so far met the targets set by the barcelona european council on implementation rates.
president, i am not entirely convinced by the whitehead report on certain points, because i cannot agree with some of the priorities set out in the consumer action, while others are, in my view, not sufficiently emphasized or even not found in the documents before us. i would like to make a number of proposals in this connection which i consider urgent and necessary for an effective policy to protect the widespread interests of consumers: first, the need to set up a european observatory on the development of consumer prices and public services in the various member states, in order to monitor the extent and nature of increases, especially since the adoption of the euro. secondly, as regards the sensitive issue of public services and banking and insurance services, i believe that it is absolutely necessary to adopt a policy aimed at opening up the boards of directors of public companies operating these services - credit agencies, insurance companies and public service companies - to adequate representation of the widespread interests of users. the european union should take the necessary measures to ensure that consumer users are involved in the management of this activity if true economic democracy is to be achieved. i also think that the proposals for protecting young people in particular from the serious dangers of smoking are neither adequate nor sufficient. the spread of the phenomenon, especially among young people, is accompanied by increasing, truly frightening, data on the geometrical extent of lung cancer cases, which requires europe to make a much greater effort in the actions already planned. it is time for europe to declare war on the dangers of smoking, by means of more appropriate awareness campaigns and by bringing the legislation of the member states up to the highest level in preventing the dangers of smoking.
mr president, three reports on consumer affairs combined in one analysis is a rare and precious opportunity after the years of lukewarm attention that this parliament and the commission have devoted to the consumer category. the first report is, as we have heard, on the green paper on consumer protection in the union; the second on the consumer policy strategy 2002-06; the third, a very robust text, is on the legal protection of consumers themselves. the strategy proposed by the commission sets out these three medium-term objectives, to be achieved through a programme of immediate application but to be periodically reviewed with commission documents certifying the progress made. the achievement of a common level of consumer protection means harmonizing not only the security of goods and services but above all the different legal aspects through which consumers exercise their role as guarantors in commercial transactions in the internal market. the effective application of consumer policy presupposes that consumers are accorded the same importance by an identical guarantee of coverage throughout the territory of the union. the programme also sets out a plan of priority actions through which consumers can agree with the member states on control procedures and, where appropriate, on appeals, thanks to a system of genuine administrative cooperation. consumers and their various supply chains must have the capacity and resources to promote their actions on a level playing field and full participation with other players in the internal market; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the principle of minimum harmonisation of consumer protection policy is also enshrined in the treaty. it is now important that the minimum becomes a more incisive, comprehensive and complete policy, shared by all. to achieve this, new rules are needed which are shared and, above all, which repeal the previous ones.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the commission. i think that if we have avoided the worst in the last few weeks, it is thanks to the action of the commission, thanks above all to the action of commissioner patten. two weeks ago, i was in phnom penh. i was given a slap on the wrist by the union ambassadors and the commission representative who thought that the concerns we had with jules maaten and others when mr sam rainsy had to take refuge in the american embassy were exaggerated. a few days later, the sister of king norodom sihanouk was threatened in a very serious way by the prime minister, and two days later mr om radsady, whom i had met with prince ranariddh, was assassinated. i believe that these events have given the union's representatives in phnom penh something to think about later on. it is paradoxical, however, that we in brussels or strasbourg have a better understanding of the problems and dangers threatening the democratic process than people in phnom penh. i think we should also ask ourselves about the volume of cooperation projects we manage and the financial volume that this represents. i think this has implications for the type of relations that representatives of our countries or our institutions can have there, with the multiplication of cocktails and meetings with high-ranking local authorities. the situation remains extremely worrying. i believe that our resolution, and i thank the members, is a good resolution; the threat of cancellation, because that is what it is, a threat of cancellation of the cooperation agreement, is extremely important. this is a signal that the authorities in phnom penh can hear to carry out the electoral process until july. but i do not think that will be enough, and as far as the election observation mission is concerned, i think the ball is now in the court of our parliament. the commission has made proposals for the appointment of a head of this election observation mission. i think that parliament should not waste another day responding to the commission's invitation and appointing as soon as possible the head of the observer mission so that he can go to cambodia immediately, make frequent visits and monitor the whole process by july. he must not only be a notary for the counting of votes in elections. the most crucial part is now being played out, played out in access to the media which is 95% controlled by the authorities in phnom penh. so this election mission will have to engage in a showdown with the authorities in phnom penh. i would ask the competent figures in this parliament to ensure that a strong figure is appointed and sent to phnom penh as soon as possible.
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission fully shares parliament's view that the recent violent deaths of several cambodian politicians, which have been mentioned by some of my colleagues, are a matter of great concern. the commission very much hopes that the political climate will not deteriorate further, especially now that the preparations for the forthcoming parliamentary elections in cambodia are under way. it also expressed the hope that the investigation by the royal government into the circumstances of the riot of 29 january this year would lead to greater stability in the country. i can assure you that the commission will be closely following developments in cambodia in close consultation with the eu member states. the commission is also concerned about the situation of the media in cambodia. freedom of expression in the press is permitted, but the public media remains subject to massive government control. the european union's electoral observation mission to the local elections last year has already pointed this out. the commission has also raised this in its contacts with the cambodian authorities. a preparatory mission, headed by the commission and composed of representatives of the member states and election experts, was in cambodia from 27 january to 4 february. the findings they have brought are intended to serve as a basis for a decision on whether and how to support the electoral process, and in particular whether the deployment of an eu election observation mission to the elections on 27 july is sensible, advisable and feasible. all interlocutors in cambodia supported eu involvement in the electoral process and expressed the view that the eu's observer mission to the local elections last year had contributed greatly to creating a climate of trust and transparency during the electoral process. on the basis of the results of the preparatory mission, which highlighted both positive and worrying aspects of the electoral preparations, the eu member states have followed the commission's recommendation to send an election observation mission to the forthcoming elections. the commission is pleased to note that the european parliament is supporting this decision. the problem of the handicaps of various christian associations. according to the decree of 14 january on the prevention of conflicts between religious communities, i quote "all activities related to religious propaganda and proselytism, as well as the distribution of communications and information sheets, are permitted only within religious institutions". however, permission for such activities in public can be obtained from the ministry of culture and religious affairs. these provisions apply to all religious associations, not just to christians. they were introduced to reduce the risk of conflicts and clashes with religious background. in the absence of a thorough legal analysis, it appears that this decree, like other measures taken by the ministry of culture and religious affairs so far, does not necessarily constitute a violation of the declaration of human rights or the cambodian constitution.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
- doc. b5-0171/2003 by mr kinnock, mr veltroni and mr swoboda, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on burma; - b5-0173/2003 by mr mckenna and mr isler béguin, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on burma; - b5-0178/2003 by mrs maij-weggen and mr van orden, on behalf of the ppe-de group, on the renewal and strengthening of the eu common position on burma; - b5-0181/2003 by mrs morgantini, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the renewal of the eu common position on burma; - b5-0185/2003 by mr malmström, mr maaten and mr van den bos, on behalf of the eldr group, on the renewal and strengthening of the eu common position on burma.
mr president, with this compromise resolution parliament intends to make very specific demands to the council and the commission concerning their respective competences, also because it is unanimously established that there is a situation in burma of total violation of human, political and social rights. it is noted that the military regime continues to prevent any democratic activity of the parliament elected in 1990 and the parliamentary committee representing it, established in 1998; that ms aung san suu kyi, although no longer under house arrest, is subject to pressure, threats and intimidation; the systematic use of torture, extrajudicial executions and forced labour is common in that country. the demands are therefore very clear and direct: calls on the commission to bring the issue of forced labour in burma to the attention of the world trade organisation, recalling that in the singapore declaration the wto itself considered that the ilo should be competent in respect of labour law enforcement; the council was also asked not to give any sign of opening up to the rangoon regime and to maintain and strengthen the common position of absolute pressure on the country, including through pressure on foreign investment. this is the very clear appeal that parliament is making: we await a reply from the commission. unfortunately, we cannot get one from the council, but the request is made in the resolution.
mr president, for too many years now, the military regime has been systematically violating human rights in burma. parliament should live and there is no parliament, although there have undoubtedly been improvements in the areas of political and social life, as well as positive steps in the exercise of individual freedoms, including the release of an extraordinary woman who, with firmness and dignity, is leading a democratic and non-violent resistance. but in reality, burma is still characterized by repression of ethnic minorities, rape and violence against women; the elimination of political dissidents and summary executions are not over; torture, imprisonment and forced labour are commonplace. despite the government's denials, i believe that the forced recruitment of children into the army and also, unfortunately, into the rebel military forces continues. thousands of people are suffering, cases that have not been reported in the media, as fortunately the 13 years of house arrest imposed on the nobel peace prize laureate were not. just think, for example, of the tragic regime of child soldiers: "it is convenient to enlist a child because he does the same work as an adult, but he is not noticed by the enemy army", one officer dared to say. forced labour is still commonplace: recent amnesty international surveys have shown that about 90 percent of the population of shan state is subjected to forced labour. these people have no choice: or forced labor or prison. their work, for which they receive no pay, consists of constructing military infrastructure, roads, buildings, military camps and also performing military services. they work nonstop from morning to night, receiving no food, except a small amount of toasted rice. although the burmese penal code has banned forced labour, the situation has not changed, just as it has not changed despite the presence of the international labour organization. the latest efforts by the thai government have also been in vain, because of the clear refusal of the burmese authorities, who have not even given political opponents permission to leave the country to discuss the economic problems afflicting it. above all, the abuses of the burmese army, intelligence services, police and other law enforcement agencies continue. i really believe that, as other colleagues have said, the european union should continue to exert its influence to ensure that negotiations between the democratic forces, the ethnic minorities and the state resume as soon as possible, and on the other hand put pressure on the burmese authorities, thus maintaining the current trade policy towards burma and, if possible, taking even more decisive measures, especially to curb the scourge of forced labour, and also taking responsibility for the continuation of the negotiations. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the relevant council working parties are currently working on the renewal of the european union's common position on burma, as the current one expires on 29 april. as members of parliament are aware, the common position has been tightened up on several occasions since 1996. the commission and the member states have tried to formulate precisely targeted sanctions that will hit those we want to hit and avoid negative effects on the innocent citizens of the country. it was also agreed that the council would continue to respond appropriately to both positive and negative developments in burma. i think parliament will understand that the commission cannot prejudge the outcome of the current discussions. i can assure you, however, that every time the common position is renewed, the whole range of possible actions will be re-examined. as regards humanitarian aid, the commission and the member states of the community have already on several occasions reaffirmed their readiness to provide humanitarian aid to the most needy sections of the burmese population. as regards forced labour, i would like to confirm that the commission fully supports the recent un resolution on the human rights situation in burma, as well as the ilo's efforts to uphold international labour standards. the commission's clear position on the situation in burma has led the international labour conference to adopt a resolution on burma, which is now being implemented. as for the proposal to bring the issue of forced labour to the attention of the wto, the commission will examine it further, particularly in the light of the forthcoming discussions in the ilo governing council at the end of this month and the next international labour conference in june. the commission fully supports closer cooperation between the wto and the ilo and welcomes the fact that some informal cooperation is already taking place. the commission also supports an independent international inquiry into the allegations of sexual violence and other attacks by the military on the civilian population.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
- the next item is the six motions for resolutions: - b5-0172/2003 by mr karamanou, mr gröner, mr ghilardotti, mr prets, mr veltroni and mr swoboda, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the death sentence by stoning for adultery against amina lawal in nigeria; - b5-0175/2003 by mr maes, mr rod and mr lucas, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on the human rights situation in nigeria, in particular the case of amina lawal; - b5-0179/2003 by mr mccartin, mr posselt, mr sacrédeus and mr scallon, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the case of a nigerian woman, amina lawal, sentenced to death by stoning in nigeria; - b5-0182/2003 by mrs ainardi, mr eriksson, mrs morgantini, mrs fraisse, mr uca and mrs figueiredo, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on nigeria: the case of amina lawal; - b5-0183/2003 by mr collins and mr muscardini, on behalf of the uen group, on the case of amina lawal in nigeria; - b5-0184/2003 by mr sanders-ten holte and mr van den bos, on behalf of the eldr group, on the human rights situation in nigeria, in particular the case of amina lawal.
- mrs karamanou, i do not know whether commissioner fischler also understands greek. i'm asking because i notice he doesn't have headphones.
- mrs karamanou, i gave you a lot of time first because i did not think it was right that the commissioner did not listen to you when you were asking him questions - it is true that the commissioner has a written text that has been prepared, but it is always right to listen - and secondly because it was the chairwoman of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities of the european parliament who was speaking.
mr president, there are too many resolutions that have not been implemented, and sometimes it is also our responsibility as members of parliament to make resolutions thinking that we have solved the problem. but i am a woman, and among my archetypes i find women who, in order to have the courage to speak, the desire to laugh or to love, were brutally tortured and burned alive, in the name of god, by the cruelty of pious christian religious men. but religions, culture and traditions are changing. i come from a country where, even after the war, there was honor killing, a country that only recognized rape as a crime against the person in the 1970s, when the feminist movement was strong. today, in europe, we women are still discriminated against, our sexuality is commodified, but the right to exist has been won. the suffering and injustice suffered by women and humanity today seem to tear our bodies and souls apart. once again, religions, traditions, cultures in the name of a god who claims to be all-powerful and all-merciful are mutilating bodies, stoning people, forcing arranged marriages, mutilating the bodies of innocent children with inflibulation. we must prevent the murder of amina lawal, a woman who dared to love, sentenced to death by stoning for having a child out of wedlock. we must prevent religion, when it is a violation of human rights, whether of a woman or a man, from being able to act as a law, even if it is secondary to the laws of the state. the federal republic of nigeria has ratified the following international human rights conventions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the community's financial interests. nigeria has also adopted a constitution that guarantees the right to liberty, without torture, without punishment. president obasanjo has on many occasions expressed his opposition to the application of the death penalty on the basis of sharia law, but he cannot always maintain a double standard. it 's true . the problems are complex but today the lives of many, many women are at stake - today amina's, yesterday safiya's. but how many other women and men are in prison or are accused and hanged? i think that the european union must make a total commitment - and we must do so too - not only to prevent amina's death but also to ensure that international agreements are actually ratified. we must therefore demand that the nigerian government show its commitment to ensure that all assistance is given, that amina does not die, that no further conviction is pronounced. i really think it is extremely important that there should be no double standards. we must start from our premise, from the fact that it is fundamental that we, here, also respect human rights - i think of immigrants, i think of many others - and therefore we must do everything possible so that no one dies anymore.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking you for convening this debate, this extraordinary session, which was also held on the occasion of the first gulf war. president, bush's declaration of war is illegal; the british government's attempts to justify the armed attack are pathetic and reckless. the united nations has not failed! they have correctly represented the position of world public opinion. the existing procedures, with all their limitations, would have been more than sufficient to prevent the outbreak of war, to continue the inspections, and we are convinced that saddam would have been disarmed and, why not, even charged in the future before an international tribunal, if only the united states and the united kingdom had followed the rules. the future that tonight's attack heralds is a future of war. we all wonder who is next on the bush ballot, because his list has nothing to do with violating international law or security council resolutions. in 35 years, 106 resolutions have been violated: 31 from israel, 23 from turkey, 18 from morocco, 16 from iraq and so on. it is this total arbitrariness, this lack of credibility of bush's talk about democracy and legality that is leaving us today bewildered and compelling us to act. we are not americans, we are europeans, and today we must see that not only international law has been torn apart, but european law has also been torn apart. we believe that all the rules of the treaty must be respected and have the same dignity, including article 19 which obliges the european members of the security council to defend the positions and interests of the union, which they have obviously not done. (applause) we would like the commission, the guardian of the treaties, and this parliament to say this loud and clear. the european union, commissioner patten, cannot be reduced to a humanitarian agency, and this parliament cannot be reduced to an advisory board of a humanitarian agency. we believe that the united kingdom and spain have acted recklessly, illegally, incomprehensibly, by supporting an attack which their own public opinion does not approve of. (applause) we believe that the italian government, the future presidency and founding member, has added to the confusion by its wavering attitude, but we also believe that france and germany have also violated article 19 by not immediately seeking alliances with the 15 member states, by not consulting the greek presidency, which from the outset has tried to build a role worthy of the name for the european union. we reject the choice that this reality presents us with today: a just but impotent position, like that of france and germany, which has not been able to avoid war; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. if the european union had had a permanent seat at the united nations, if it had been forced by common institutions and binding rules to take a united position, right away, we dare to think even today that the war would not have started tonight. and that is the challenge we face, which the convention, even if it does not seem to realise it sometimes, faces. but there are more urgent and immediate signals that we must give, and the first one concerns the middle east. we don't believe that, beyond the belated announcement of the roadmap, the bush administration is really motivated to make peace in the middle east, to stop israel in its military operations. it is obvious that it will be up to the european union to ensure that the roadmap is actually operational. mr president, we are waiting for an initiative from this point of view. the second signal is about us: it would be a grave, a very grave mistake to postpone the euro-mediterranean forum scheduled for the end of the month in crete. it would be another useless sign of impotence, which we really cannot afford today. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for ten years you have refused to work for the post-saddam era, to defend life and the rule of law in iraq and the middle east, and now, thanks to you, we are discussing the post-war era. war is the gift that legal europe, your europe, gives us. let me say that we, the nonviolent and gandhian, will fight from this moment on so that not a minute passes, of war or otherwise, after the disarmament of baghdad, not a minute! will we have the strength? we will not shout "peace!" to assassinate her as we did 60 years ago! are we illegal? you know, like de gaulle. you're as legal as vichy! we are as illegal as the iraqi resistance, as the european resistance. we tell you now that we will fight the battle for now: peace based on justice and freedom! europe is a vicious, vichy europe! it is not the europe of the anti-fascists in prison, the europe of altiero spinelli, the europe of ernesto rossi, the europe of those who have really given us the right to look at the heirs of lafayette, as you do not look at them, with your old fascist, communist, papist hatred, against the world of the liberal and religious reform of the world!
mr president, if we had to choose between american democracy and iraqi dictatorship, we would have no doubt; if we had to choose between the transatlantic alliance and the tyrants, we would have no doubt. we really have to choose between kofi annan and bush; we must choose between simitis and prodi, who are the presidents of the union, and blair and aznar. kofi annan is the law and bush is not; simitis and prodi are the union, the others are not. in whose name did bush give saddam an ultimatum? in whose name did blair and aznar ignore the document they signed at the european council on 17 february? (applause) i would like to thank we have called for the euro-mediterranean forum to be held in greece next week, mr president, as you know, to talk about peace, social progress and coexistence. many parliamentarians from arab countries, from european union countries, tell us: how can we discuss the future euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly while the bombs are falling on baghdad, while kofi annan, the rule of law, the un are brutally cornered by bush's arrogance, while a war is being waged which is unilateral, pre-emptive, unjust and illegal and, as has been said, immoral and criminal? even if the tyrant falls soon, war will not change this character. in 1991 there was the un, in 1995 and 1998 there was the un, nato, the european union, unanimously; in 2001 the whole world was around bush and the united states against terrorism. the president of the united states has squandered enormous political and moral capital, he has attacked the un, he has divided the european union, he has widened the atlantic, he has made relations with the arab world more difficult. they're deep failures! the war began, mr president, on 17 september 2002, when the new strategy of the bush doctrine was announced to the world. we had a country with a great hegemony, the united states, founded on the war for the liberation of europe, africa and asia from nazism, founded on the fight against communism throughout the cold war; now this hegemony is in danger of becoming domination based on the use of force. it's a loss of the function that the united states of america has had historically, and if that's the case, it could be the beginning of a serious crisis, a crisis that could affect, as norman mailer said, democracy within the united states; and if it affects democracy within the united states, it could also affect democracy in europe, and our freedom could also be at risk. so, mr cox, mr papandreou, make it clear to the council today and tomorrow, make it clear: europe has lost with this bush war; we lost. even if the tyrant falls, i repeat, we have lost. europeans who are really friends of the americans, of the citizens of the united states, cannot be in the service of bush. we decided, after the end of the second world war, "never again auschwitz, never again war". we must build this new europe of ours with a new constitution which still has these two pillars: never again auschwitz, never again the war! (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the mistakes and the responsibilities and the geopolitical obscurities of american policy must not make europe lose its ability to look far ahead and to understand the seriousness of the threat that baghdad represents for us. have we forgotten 9/11 already? european foreign policy, if it exists, cannot be reduced to the inconclusive act of one-sided pacifists who have never in their demonstrations seriously condemned saddam and the use of weapons of mass destruction. we have heard some words of encouragement from the arab world today. i ask: but you see them, you hear them, the arab tv? they give a loud sense of what the arab masses, including immigrants in our cities, want to hear. yet when saddam drew the sword of menacing islam and proclaimed jihad, we europeans were his most direct and immediate target. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to be able to do this. and may god protect young europe and young europeans who unfortunately have to fight a war on the front line, or who are engaged, like our glorious alpine mountaineers, in afghanistan for peace.
mr president, i am not going to be considered a friend of saddam, who is and remains a criminal, just because i am for peace. i am against this war because outside the context of the un, and against the grace of god, there is only the law of the jungle, the logic of the strongest; there is only moral, legal, political illegitimacy. in this context, the choice of some governments to allow american troops to use their bases and fly over their territory, as the pirate italian government has unfortunately done, is contrary to the general principles of international law enshrined in the united nations charter. that is why i and my party, the italy of values, which has been strongly opposed to this conflict from the beginning, are now opposed to the cunning of those governments that profess not to be belligerent but then help the belligerents: a role usually reserved for accomplices in criminal actions. until today, these governments had assured us that they would respect the will of the un and, now that the un has not authorized the attack, they have already reneged on their word. obviously, mr president, they were thinking and thinking about the future division of the enemy's spoils and hoping, like all the little dogs under the master's table, that some crumbs would fall from the american table.
mr president, unfortunately all attempts to end the iraqi crisis without the use of force have failed. the commission has therefore decided to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i agree with hans-gert poettering on saddam: he 's responsible for what 's happening in these hours . the european union has been able to avoid the use of arms and put an end to its bloody dictatorship, as was suggested to it, until yesterday afternoon, not only by many representatives of this parliament but also by the government of saudi arabia and other arab countries. we cannot put bush and saddam on the same plane, confuse the president of the greatest western democracy with a criminal autocrat who has drowned every democratic yearning in iraq, the only dictator to use weapons of mass destruction. europe has unfortunately been divided on this political issue. we have an immediate duty to seek the unity of the union. today's european council, president papandreou, can mark the beginning of a new phase aimed at giving europe a single foreign and defence policy. the relaunch of european action will be seen in concrete terms, commissioner patten, as soon as the conflict in iraq has ended. the union, in conjunction with the united nations, will have to play a leading role in the building of the new iraqi democracy: the european union has a major role to play, including strong, concerted action against terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. but this politically strong europe will have to be an equal partner of the united states, as another major player in international politics. but we cannot, as president prodi has said, build the europe of tomorrow against the united states. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is hoping that the council will take a decision on the matter. the european parliament is the expression of those who always put the interests of the party ahead of the interests of the nation and of europe.
mr president, a member of parliament, mr cappato, was held in detention for three days by the british authorities. i would like to know whether parliamentary immunity is still an institution in our europe and whether the fact that he has been named european parliamentarian of the year, as mr cappato has been, leads directly to prison, which would advise all of us not to take part in this competition.
mr president, i would like to comment on what mr bigliardo said and on the letter you received concerning the immunity of mr dupuis. mr pannella was also sentenced to four months in prison, converted to eight months probation, for civil disobedience on drugs. he must notify the italian authorities of any movements and may visit the european parliament's premises in brussels and strasbourg for a maximum of seven days a month. both mr pannella and mr cappato and mr dupuis have voluntarily submitted to these sentences without raising the question of their immunity. the problem is not with them, but with parliament, with the protection of its work and its plenary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after his brilliant and solemn theological-goliard digression, which raised the central question of the theological and byzantine debates on the sex of angels - how to make love while remaining a virgin - daniel cohn-bendit has moved on to the other tendency, that of seeking, tomorrow here, the moral majority. why not ethics, dany? tomorrow we shall have the problem of not seeking a humble, secular political majority on certain objectives, but we shall have to build up a moral majority here. go and die murdered with your ethics, with your morals, with your search for absolutes, with your digressions! our secular, christian task, if you will, is to find, tomorrow, as we are doing in italy, by identifying one or two viable political objectives for tomorrow, for all of us, a path by which it is possible, instead of remaining in the world of your munich of 1938, dany, to go to a world in which, on saturday, we would all fight together for free italians, for free germans, today for free iraqis, instead of sacrificing everything on the dock of peace, on the dock of an absolute of which you cannot even begin to draw the boundaries. peace, yes, but not eternal peace! and it's not that death begins when it's done with american or israeli guns or missiles; the death begins with all the victims of pol pot, with those you don't even remember, with the people of the volga and the don deported 80 years ago, with the 500,000 exterminated and massacred by saddam in the last ten years. these moralisms of yours, these absolutes of yours! i accept, i am happy that some communists convert and from communists become liberals, but i do not accept that they want to continue hanging, as they did as communists, accusing me of not being, i am not enough liberal and not enough violent. i propose an amendment to your motion, mr president, an amendment which is currently in italy and i also point it out to the president-in-office of the council because the study has reached the absolute majority of italian members of parliament: the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the draft resolution on the situation in iraq, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the draft resolution.
i wonder when it will be our turn, when b52s or deadly cyber war weapons will attack our buildings, or perhaps french ones, perhaps with the support of britain and others. what is it? i 'm not ! i'm not sure. this is also to be expected from the fundamentalist culture of the bush administration. i saw the head of an iraqi child, ripped off by the weapons of the self-proclaimed liberators. these bodies and these images are no different from those of the kurdish child poisoned by saddam's chemical weapons or the palestinian child slaughtered by the israeli army or the israeli girl killed by a suicide bomber or the bodies of the victims of the twin towers. with this war, the veils have fallen. the us doesn 't respect international rules: kyoto, the international court of justice, the death penalty, star wars, the use of weapons of mass destruction. us militarism is a danger to the international community; a policy of domination and death is a macabre dance between terrorism and this policy. but it is also from the united states, from its people, that comes hope and an alternative: the european union is a great power, as all over the world, they say no to war, no to terrorism, no to revenge. what can we do? how can we bring the countries that are waging this war of aggression back into compliance with the pact with the united nations after world war ii? europe cannot simply say: we'll think about rebuilding. our efforts must be directed towards stopping an illegal war. the present, minister simitis, is the past and the future. that's why we have to stop iraqis, brits and americans from dying. give the un a role, say: then the security council and the united nations general assembly must be convened. europe must be united, of course, but it must be united to say no and to stop this war. rabiya, a young iraqi girl, said to me very strongly: you are killing our dreams too; you are killing the dreams that we can free ourselves from the dictatorship of saddam hussein. (applause from the left)
mr president, there have been divisions in the council over the choices made in recent weeks, but if we want a europe that counts politically, we must look to the future, work for the europe of tomorrow. it must be a europe with a single foreign and defence policy, a europe that plays a leading role on the international stage and can guarantee peace beyond its own borders. we must achieve this in the second half of this year, and i must respond to the unpleasant words of mr watson, who obviously knows little and has little appreciation of the european commitment. obviously, for him, being a europeanist means always saying yes, but if you say no sometimes, you may be building a better europe. it would be a grave political mistake not to heal the divisions of today. we are encouraged by the statements of the italian government which are moving in this desirable direction, and i believe that president prodi will be in agreement with the italian president of the council, whom he will meet in rome on friday. the political europe of tomorrow, strong and authoritative, cannot, however, be born against the united states of america. it is appropriate to recall this in this house at a time when there are still people in europe who equate the greatest democracy in the west with the despotic and criminal regime of saddam hussein. the killer 's name is saddam hussein; we cannot and must not identify with the slogan: not with bush, not with saddam. europe, having rediscovered the reasons for its strong unity, will also have to commit itself directly, under the auspices of the united nations, to the construction of the new iraqi democracy, after having supported the humanitarian needs, the result of a conflict that saddam hussein could have avoided by accepting the proposal for exile, which was repeatedly mentioned by mr pannella. it must be a europe which has relations with moderate arab countries, which is committed to the security of israel and to the building of a new palestinian state: in short, a europe that guarantees peace in the mediterranean and the middle east.
mr president, on 17 february the european council declared the centrality of the united nations, said that it wanted to achieve the objective of disarming saddam hussein peacefully and, in the name of this, referred to the will of the peoples of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are here today, in this parliament, also on behalf of the european peoples, of the public opinion which the council has called upon to hold to account, first of all, those european governments which have supported, are supporting and are participating in a unilateral war which we condemn unreservedly. we are on day seven, and dramatic events tell us that it will not be a flash war. our opposition to the war does not mean, however, that we are in solidarity with that regime, which must answer for its crimes before international justice, and does not mean that we are indifferent to the dangerous consequences of the breakdown of the international legal framework, to which many others can be added: the use of prohibited weapons, the mourning of the population, the use of prisoners, the end of the kurdish population. and then there's the middle east. some interventionist circles have said that this war will solve the middle east problem. we don't think that's the case. we see things getting worse and worse: on the one hand, this war is helping the extremist hamas front, on the other hand, the israeli army's intervention continues. finally, i would like to say to the governments of europe: what do you learn from this dramatic experience? i would like to say to the member states: the european parliament has been a major influence in the development of the community's foreign policy. if you do not do this, we shall not have a common policy. do you not see that even without powers the commission is now a reference point, while the role of the high representative has been killed by your divisions? this impotence - it has already happened in the balkans - returns today in a most dramatic way; the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it is the council that has always been the party to the treaty of rome.
mr president, we all agree that if europe does not speak with one voice, it is powerless, but it seems to me that even in this debate it is still difficult to have a single voice in the european parliament. if we do not want the war to stop the progress towards the treaty establishing a common foreign and defence policy, we must prevent the furrow which has divided europe in recent weeks from widening. we agreed to condemn saddam's regime; we have, however, had different views on preventive and unilateral war, because the price of war is paid mainly by the innocent victims and because the aftermath of this war remains entirely uncertain. but now, what is realistic to do? i think we must avoid making dialogue more difficult between old allies who feel the weight of the responsibility they have for the future of the world. we must participate in humanitarian aid, recognizing the centrality of the mandate of the united nations also in the next phase, in the reconstruction of iraq. we must mend the rift between europeans by starting with what unites us. this is the challenge that the spring european council tried to keep in mind, and for this reason president prodi reminded us of the burden of war on europe's economic recovery. i believe that this is the challenge that concerns this parliament too. we must take a step towards peace - starting with peace in the middle east - and towards the political unity of europe.
mr president, when things get hot, you have to keep a cool head. it is therefore useless, in times of crisis, to think about what europe could be and is not, and to throw everything away over this bitter contradiction: we are throwing away 50 years - as president prodi said - of intelligence, of cohesion, of peace, of admirable institutional building, of positive results. this is the europe that is possible, and so let us not be ashamed to talk about lisbon, welfare, the labour market, energy, telecommunications, the task force, the stability pact, the convention, but let us move on! this is the only way: we're doomed to this road. one last point: i was deeply offended as a member of parliament, as a european, as an italian, by the guilty tolerance which president cox showed for the banners put up by colleagues on the left in this house. if we can understand 'stop the war', it is absolutely unacceptable that signs bearing the words 'stop the killers' should be displayed in this house. killer means, in the language of president cox, "murderer". americans and british liberated my country 60 years ago, brought it back democracy and freedom. to americans and brits, for yesterday and today, i simply say: thank you.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while a real war is raging, we are not going to run the risk of having an interinstitutional war. i think that the council, well represented by the greek presidency, is measuring the unanimity which emerges from the speeches of the representatives of the political groups in parliament in saying where the need for correction is absolutely necessary. parliament must defend its prerogatives, and it is right that it should do so. the commission, for its part, must defend the spirit and the letter of the treaties. all this is part of our agreements and loyal cooperation between institutions. the political reasons which led the council to adopt a number of measures in copenhagen are understandable. this must not, however, be at the expense of the integrity of the prerogatives of the institutions, starting with parliament. i therefore sincerely appeal to the greek presidency, and i am sure it will listen, to do everything possible to get us out of this impasse, to ensure that the ceremony in athens takes place, so that it is not obscured, in a way, by a conflict which might otherwise call into question either enlargement - which nobody here wants - or the spirit of the interinstitutional agreements between us.
mr president, i am naturally pleased with the work done on the draft resolution, but when i consider it very carefully, i also have some serious doubts, which i do not wish to be due to a kind of subconsciousness. in fact, every time we talk about these issues, it almost seems to us a kind of harassment of farmers who buy and use plant protection products to ensure crop yields and to exclude quality problems due to pests and diseases. i have a basic question: whether quality can be separated from the concept of farm profitability. it is obvious that when i speak of quality, i mean the various stages of the production chain. in analysing the commission's proposal, i do not see an appropriate analysis of the costs and benefits associated with the initiatives proposed in the thematic strategies which are presented to our attention. this is a point which we have taken up in our parliamentary position, but then, following a logical thread, i lose my head, because immediately afterwards i would like to understand the logic of point 2 of the draft resolution - i am referring to amendment no 10 - which proposes a minimum target of a 50% reduction in the use of pesticides. i find this statement to be quite arbitrary, since it does not take account of the qualitative aspects of plant protection products and, above all, it ignores the economic aspects of crop protection. one final point on gmos: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in my view, the application of the precautionary principle for gmos implies due consistency with the studies already undertaken by the union and not yet completed. the commission takes a very serious and very wise position on this point, indicating in the field trials when the use of gmos with a risk associated with pesticide use is assessed. i think this is the right way to give concrete answers.
i am the rapporteur's substitute. mr president, i am unworthily replacing mr nistico, the rapporteur, who cannot be present, and i assure the commissioner that i will convey to him his thanks and congratulations. for the information of my colleagues, i shall therefore briefly describe the measure which we shall be voting on tomorrow, and which, as the commissioner anticipated, constitutes a meeting point which the parliamentary delegation to the conciliation committee supported, shared and recommends to the house for a positive vote tomorrow. as the commissioner has already said, this is an amendment to the 23rd amendment to directive 76/769 on the restriction of the placing on the market and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations, i.e. substances classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction. the proposal is based on article 95 of the treaty and has two main objectives: on the one hand, to protect the internal market by introducing harmonised provisions on the placing on the market and use of the abovementioned substances; on the other hand, a high level of protection of public health and the environment must be achieved. it is worth remembering that we are dealing with 25 substances in particular, 14 of which are classified as category 2 carcinogens, such as certain cobalt salts, cadmium, benzopyrene, azo dyes, etc. three of these are classified as mutagenic and eight as toxic to the reproductive system. for example, cobalt is known to induce carcinogenic effects in laboratory animals and humans, in particular lung cancer and cancer of myocardial tissue; cadmium powders, on the other hand, in addition to lung cancer, can cause testicular cancer. as can be seen from these brief examples, these are very dangerous substances. during this year and a half, two years of work, parliament adopted two amendments at first reading in february 2002, which the council accepted in part in june 2003 by adopting its common position. at its second reading in 2002, parliament approved an amendment to the recitals. we are therefore at the final stage of this conciliation, of this trilogy, and, as has already been mentioned, the problem that remained to be defined was that concerning not substances but products in which these substances may be present. the agreement on the only point which was under discussion at the conciliation provides that the commission should submit as soon as possible a legislative proposal to ban the use of products - this time products - containing substances classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction, whereas - and this is an underlining point which the rapporteur is keen to make - there is scientific evidence that these substances are released from these products and in fact expose the general public to the risks described above. the delegation therefore considers the result achieved satisfactory to parliament and recommends that the house approve it.
mr president, commissioner, i congratulate the rapporteur, mr caudron, on the excellent result achieved on a programme which, beyond the rhetoric, can be described as a challenge to civilization, if we wish, a fair relationship between the north and the south of the world. the commission's proposal is an unprecedented innovation, since article 169 is a good idea but is being applied for the first time in practice, and this approach establishes a real partnership on a real problem between the north and the south of the world. this initiative - so clever - should be repeated, again in the field of research, also in other key areas of the union's external relations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. firstly, i think it was a good thing that we didn't extend the programme to related diseases, not because they are less important, but because i think it's not worth wasting resources and effort. i believe that the results can be used to treat other diseases and form the basis for new research activities, thus contributing to the solution of other health problems related to the problems of developing countries. secondly, on amendment no 13 - involving the private sector - i think it is particularly important to involve the private sector in the programme because it will allow additional funds to be mobilised, encouraging businesses to invest more in diseases affecting developing countries. in this respect, perhaps, a reflection on tax differentiation mechanisms could be a very interesting lever. the third point concerns the protection of intellectual property. the involvement of the pharmaceutical industry is crucial to the success of the programme. we must have differentiated prices for medicines sold in developing countries and, in my view, we must also have differentiated labelling to avoid fraud.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's study supporting this proposal is both terrifying and encouraging. it is terrifying because it presents a dramatic picture of the health situation in countries where the three great plagues of the century, which we are talking about, are concentrated: the european union is also committed to the fight against aids, malaria and tuberculosis, which claim more than five million lives each year. aids is the latest scourge, but it affects 90% of the developing world, 70% of sub-saharan africa: there are more than 40 million people infected. malaria re-emerged in the 1970s and kills one million people a year. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this disease, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals for action. the encouraging aspect comes from the figures for the new effort made by all the member states, which allocated €600 million more to research than the €100 million foreseen in the fifth framework programme. the important thing is that this programme reaches the people directly, overcoming the usual problem, which is the very high cost of medicines, especially for countries which do not have the budget to do so and for which substantial action is needed. i therefore renew a proposal which has already been put forward to reduce these costs: to abolish all royalties and copyrights on medicines, holding, if possible, not only the pharmaceutical companies of the european union but also those of the world to account. the important thing is that we do not once again pursue a sterile policy, limited to debate in this house, but that we set an example of pragmatism and seriousness, for once the member states and other countries, in cooperation, intend to do something serious. the charter of fundamental rights is certainly more valuable than market rules.
mr president, i too welcome the measure we are discussing today with great satisfaction, precisely because it meets a number of needs which are present, i see, to all the members who have decided to discuss it in the house this morning. the first thing i would like to say is that i am pleased that this report marks a return to research in areas such as pharmaceuticals, where europe is doing too little. in my view, the sixth framework programme and the resources made available under it are a sign of europe's desire to commit substantial resources to research in this field, which has not only economic but also social and political significance. it is no coincidence that the possession of patents and the ability to produce medicines and to control their cost, especially in developing countries, means that we can pursue a policy of development for ourselves on the one hand and aid for developing countries on the other. many colleagues have pointed out that this research, which aims to help fight disease by increasing the level of knowledge needed to produce new medicines and to improve existing ones, is linked to the other policies which we as europe must pursue in the field of education and employment, because these are the only elements, together with health, which can help to win democracy in those countries which look to europe as an increasingly certain point of reference.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr caudron. this report is, i believe, the result of good work already done as rapporteur on the sixth framework programme for research and technological development, to which i contributed in the first phase as rapporteur for the committee on employment and social affairs. the partnership we are establishing, thanks to the application of the new article 169, is new, unprecedented in my view, and we therefore welcome it: is a concrete, tangible contribution to the fight against poverty-related diseases, a fight in which the european union takes on its responsibilities by standing at the forefront as the world's leading donor. the budget allocated eur 600 million is in addition to the various initiatives that have taken place since durban to strengthen and make more effective the fight against these diseases, which affect developing countries most: i am referring only to the global fund, set up at the g8 in geneva, and the european community's action programme. this continuity is certainly a very positive sign, but more and more needs to be done: five people die of aids every minute in africa. in 2001, malaria and tuberculosis killed one million, two million people. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. that is why it is necessary, i would say essential, to invest and concentrate all the necessary efforts for a systematic response by the entire international community. this coordinated cooperation between member states, the european union and the private sector, which takes a new coordinated approach to a long-term community strategy to combat these three diseases, has the important merit of actively involving the developing countries themselves and enabling concrete improvements. it is therefore essential that this participation, in order to be effective and efficient, be carried out in the most transparent way, thus making the efforts and resources put into the field tangible.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. mr president, i agree with the rapporteur and i congratulate her on her report. the european anti-fraud office is a good example of the difficulty, slowness and inadequacy of the construction of the european union. the scale and gravity of the fraud affecting the community's financial interests is obvious to all. the weakness of the opposition to this form of crime, which is essentially unpunished, is equally evident. the european parliament denounced the seriousness of the situation more than 12 years ago. years of intensive study have led to the formulation of a precise and workable proposal for the establishment of a european anti-fraud office based on the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, with a corollary of criminal provisions and procedures capable of solving reasonably many of the problems posed by the need for a centralised criminal initiative and criminal judgments reserved for national courts. the legal basis for this institution was proposed by the commission to the intergovernmental conference in nice, which unfortunately failed in this area too, because of the lack of a common will on the part of the governments and a european vision of the problems. the launch of intergovernmental judicial cooperation through eurojust has, on the one hand, created more ambitious and less realistic expectations, and, on the other hand, created grounds for further postponements. there is no time to delay: on the one hand, initiatives must be taken to ensure a uniform level of protection of the fundamental rights of citizens in criminal proceedings and minimum rules for the admissibility of evidence. on the other hand, the convention on the future of europe must provide an appropriate legal basis in the european constitution, sufficiently flexible to allow the establishment of a european anti-fraud office, which can, in the future, evolve within the framework of eurojust with broader objectives of combating transnational crime.
mr president, like the member who preceded me a short while ago, i too have been a prosecutor, but i have come to and am coming to diametrically opposite conclusions. i call on those who truly believe in the construction of europe to be consistent and to support the project of a stronger european union, which can therefore have all the means necessary to really tackle the scourge of fraud against the union's financial interests, since these interests have not been sufficiently protected by the member states in their legislation. and a fact: the amount of these frauds against the community budgets - that is, ultimately, the european taxpayer - amounts to about one billion euros a year, as mr theato's motion for a resolution, which i wholeheartedly support, rightly states, and all analyses agree that this phenomenon will continue to increase. for this reason, the existing legal instruments to combat fraud, such as the conventions and protocols ratified by the member states, the complexity of the practical implementation of judicial assistance in criminal matters, the nature of olaf, which, by mandate, must be limited to mere administrative checks, and above all the fragmentation of the european criminal space, have proved to be totally inadequate to combat this phenomenon effectively, nor do the excuses that have been offered so far convince me that the european public prosecutor should be abandoned. but a decision in principle is not enough: if we are really in favour of the establishment of a european public prosecutor, we must also consistently equip him with effective means of action. it is therefore necessary to define with the greatest precision, at community level, the offences and penalties provided for in relation to criminal offences, and also to draw up common provisions on criminal law and criminal procedure of the european union. i therefore share the view of rapporteur theato that, while respecting the separation of powers, the european prosecutor and the delegated prosecutors should be independent and should exercise their mandate in accordance with the principle of the mandatory nature of criminal proceedings. the european ombudsman will also be responsible for the implementation of the european ombudsman's activities. in conclusion, i believe that honest citizens of the union can only welcome the creation of a tool that will counter the dishonest of every season and every region.
mr president, the protection of the european union's financial interests seems to be the pretext for the creation of a super-prosecution, and this seems to be the main aim of a super-prosecution, almost a trait d'union with the establishment of the european arrest warrant, on a line aimed at replacing national courts: the italian government has repeatedly and clearly stated its reasons for taking a position which is clearly opposed to this line. a proposal this of the european public prosecutor which, incidentally, is proposed again by the praesidium to the convention: article 20 provides for a european law establishing a european public prosecutor's office, the rules of which should be decided and voted on by a majority. this raises further concerns, also because, on the issue of the power of attorney, very sensitive issues are raised, such as that posed by the principle of the free movement of evidence, since this means that the conditions for the admissibility of evidence specifically provided for in the legal order of each state competent for the trial will be overridden. it is not by abolishing national legal traditions that transnational crime is countered, but by adequate controls and by effective and efficient measures to counter, prevent and eradicate international financial crime.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the conditions of this debate are certainly not the best for expressing one's views. in the name of the italian radicals, we will continue to consistently oppose the dry idea of the creation of a european prosecutor who does not go along with those instruments and those procedures which are part of the legal and cultural heritage of our countries. how can we imagine a european public prosecutor without the judicial, appeal and defence mechanisms that are inherent in the legal system of each country? a leap forward like this could only make the approach to europe even more judicial and export a certain model of italian justice that we have known and that has done so much damage in our country. that is why we will vote against the theato report, as we have already voted against it in committee, not because the idea is unfounded in itself but because it lacks all the attributes to make it really fair, as justice should be at european level too.
mr president, the theato report on the commission's green paper on the protection of the community's financial interests and the creation of a european public prosecutor's office has been prepared and debated at length. he agreed with us at first, on the condition that the role of the public prosecutor should remain, and still remains, limited to the financial interests of the community. however, during the debate and the evaluations of the parliamentary committees, the original measure was in danger of being distorted and of taking on a different and dangerous configuration in the european institutional context. that is why the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights had initially prepared a negative opinion, but then, after mr lehne had acted intelligently and had clarified matters with mrs theato, it delivered a compromise opinion and tried to bring the institution under review back to its original inspiration. further discussions with mr theato have enabled us to reach a united and compromise position, which we hope will be confirmed in this house this morning. mr theato has dealt with this problem with great sensitivity, because the legal order of the european union does not provide for jurisdiction in matters of criminal law and procedure, nor for a judiciary with all levels of jurisdiction that can guarantee the full right of defence. in the absence of such a context, the creation of an independent european public prosecutor's office without any controls would, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, undermine the already fragile interinstitutional balance between the union and the member states in a sensitive area such as justice: it would be illogical and unmotivated. in particular, the creation of such a body seems to be premature, given that the objectives of judicial cooperation and, where necessary, the harmonisation of the criminal law of the member states have not yet been achieved. in the context of eurojust, which has the problem of subsidiarity and an important problem of coordination between all the european states, and only in that context can we really have an important and homogeneous result, which respects the states and at the same time gives the guarantees that the european union must have. we are voting in favour of this and we will be bringing these amendments to the convention, which obviously cannot accept a european power of attorney, an unlimited super power of attorney, which would be contrary to all the guarantee rules that exist in our europe.
mr president, i see pensioners in the crowd. it is precisely them i had in mind when i voted for the incorporation of a financial framework in the accession treaty, because my personal objective and that of the party of pensioners is that there should also be secure pensions in the candidate countries, which would allow elderly people to live with dignity. i hope that subsidies for the construction of infrastructure to support industry will also be increased immediately, for the benefit of all the working, unemployed and retired citizens of the other two candidate countries which will not join the european union in 2004, namely romania and bulgaria.
mr president, as this report has explained, the cement used in construction contains chromium iv, which causes occupational diseases known to all bricklayers, called cement dermatitis. i could not therefore help voting in favour of this directive which limits and seeks to reduce the hazards of the work of the bricklayers who build what we have around us. as a representative of the party of pensioners, however, i would like to insist that a directive be adopted in europe to reduce working hours for harmful occupations such as bricklayers so that occupational diseases are reduced.
mr president, i see that my previous explanations of vote have been taken into account by this directive. on other occasions i have called for the sum of money spent on scientific research by each of the 15 european states to be added up, so that money is not wasted and that it is used in greater quantities to achieve scientific discoveries quickly that are useful to all europeans. this decision adds 200 million euros, made available by each member state, to 200 million euros added by the european union, to 200 million euros added by private individuals, for research that will allow us to discover how to better treat aids, tuberculosis and malaria. i am therefore very pleased to have voted in favour of this report by mr caudron.
mr president, amendment no 2 to recital 2b of the report by mr harbour and mr medina ortega abolishes the correction coefficient for the pension depending on the place of residence of the pensioner, so that, when equal contributions are paid, equal pension benefits are paid. this is a principle of sound economics which i would like to see applied throughout europe. unfortunately, as we know, in some countries, not least italy, there are citizens who have paid nothing and receive the same pension as citizens who have paid a lot of contributions. there you go. europe's example should be followed by all 15 member states!
mr president, i must say that i fell asleep during the voting and in my sleep i saw the 15 heads of government meeting in brussels for this european council discussing matters in a lively manner. one of them said to the others: to solve the pension problem, you have to do what we have done and what we do in italy. we in italy, to choose the minister of finance, we do a medical examination: a chest x-ray to see if he has a heart of stone. a visit to the eye doctor to see if your pupils are square to make the balance square; a blood test to see if it can withstand alcohol because every time a pensioner dies, they go to certain government rooms to drink. we found him, and now we're all safe. do as we did!
how did i vote on the serious, very serious problem of iraq? well, mr president, i slept very well last night and had another dream. there was a boxing ring: the two boxers were president george w. bush and president saddam hussein; the referee was un secretary general kofi annan and miss europe was the pin-up girl in a miniskirt, holding up the sign that read "first round". bush was immediately knocked down by saddam hussein and lost to the applause of all the pacifists in the world. this 'seeing bush on the mat' made me feel sorry for him and so i thought it was a good idea to run to the aid of the cowboy and to vote in a way that would express solidarity with the united states of america which in the past saved europe from dictators.
mr president, i am very sorry, and i would say distressed, to see the result of this motion in this house today. it is tragic that, in addition to the council, parliament has also decided not to have a voice. at the moment this empty chamber is dramatically the symbol of who we are in this international crisis which is showing its most atrocious aspects. this sign of impotence cannot but cause pain to all those who have always hoped and continue to hope that europe will be a beacon of balance, progress, peace and guarantee of respect for the rights of peoples and international law on the planet. although no resolution was passed, there were some significant votes: the most important thing seems to me to be what parliament has indicated by a large majority for a common defence and foreign policy, including enhanced cooperation. it's the only glimmer of hope in the desolation of a vote that does us no honor.
in writing. - (it) on the tragedy of iraq and the middle east, the european parliament cannot continue to take different positions for purely ideological reasons: many points in the various resolutions presented leave open the gap between what constitutes a party position and what should, on the contrary, be a useful political message for the establishment of peace, for the eradication of a bloody dictatorship and for reconstruction, under the auspices of the united nations, for the success of which work should already begin to alleviate the suffering of children and the elderly. we reject once again the factional attitude of those who, again and again, consider themselves to be representatives of political parties and who, for partisan reasons, prevent the adoption of common positions.
mr president, it is certainly a good thing that europe is trying to limit the harmful additives which are used in agriculture to kill pests and to make fruit, vegetables and other products of the earth as lush as possible and to produce as much of them as possible. but then i ask myself, and you do not ask yourself, mr president, and the greens in particular do not ask themselves: why not increase research and the use of science to create genetically modified organisms - gmos - in agriculture so that we can have plants, fruit and agricultural products in large quantities and of excellent quality, resistant to pests, which make it unnecessary to use the really dangerous pesticides?
as i think you know, mr president, i am here because i was voted by the pensioners on the list of the party of the retired in italy. i must say that although this is not one of the subjects on which i usually speak to pensioners, i and the party of pensioners are in favour of a european public prosecutor, but only after there is a european criminal code and a european code of criminal procedure. i heard an italian member of parliament say to another italian member of parliament: but why are we against the european public prosecutor? but it's only natural! the prosecutors in italy - which we so regret are sometimes too partisan - are certainly better than the european prosecutors and european prosecutors that would come from this directive! so i thought i would do the right thing, because the security of justice is surely the most important guarantee for any citizen, anywhere in the world.
in writing. - (it) the proposal to create a european public prosecutor's office, in the light of the convention's current work on justice and security, risks widening the gap between the divergent positions which have already emerged within the convention itself. the need for a community body to deal with and eliminate the specific problem of community fraud can be solved through eurojust, whose development is becoming increasingly evident. for this reason, while we agree with the spirit of part of the proposal, namely the need for a community instrument, we do not agree with the specific instrument and therefore we abstain.
- this concludes voting time. composition of parliament - communication of common positions of the council - authorization to draw up reports - transmission of texts adopted during this part-session - calendar of next part-sessions: see minutes.
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was suspended at 1 p.m.)
mr president, i have a slightly more distant view. as is traditional, the spring sessions of this parliament are sympathetically besieged by schoolchildren, groups of schoolchildren and students from all over europe. it's official field trip time. well, there is no equal opportunity, however, in this great opportunity that we could offer to all our young europeans: in fact, pupils and students from the most remote, peripheral regions cannot come because of money, because of cost. until a few years ago, this parliament gave grants, practical aid to schools all over europe. then, for economic reasons, these subsidies were cut. i have found out from a quick survey that some aid is given to the regions, and therefore to the local authorities, who unfortunately manage it at their discretion. it does not seem fair to me, mr president, that, compared with what used to happen, distant schools do not have equal opportunities to come to understand how we work and what we are doing. of all the investments we can make for visitor groups, i believe that those for young people are certainly the most interesting and the most worthwhile of even a small economic sacrifice. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the uen group i would like to make a few comments. a year and a half ago i sent a question to the commission, stressing the possibility of such incidents, because viruses, bacteria and toxic substances are being used and manipulated all over the world, and we are not aware of it. the current viral infection, known as sars, is causing a real wave of panic around the world about the possibility of rapid spread. the fears arise mainly from the fact that little is known about its characteristics, which are insufficient at the moment, so that we can all consider ourselves to be free from contagion. the outbreak appears to have originated in guadalong province, china, from where the infection spread to major cities in the east: hong kong, singapore, bangkok, shanghai, beijing, and then spread worldwide, causing infections and deaths. these areas - as you all know - are not closely monitored, either for hygiene or for the possibility of administering medicines suitable to fight these diseases. the etiological agent of the current viral infection remains unknown, probably originating from a mutation of an animal virus, corona virus; it's thought that a scientist who was manipulating a virus to create a vaccine or modify it, this virus escaped and it appears that the scientist himself died from it. what we know about this syndrome is that it is transmitted by direct and environmental transmission. the diagnosis possibilities for the syndrome at this time are only semiological, as no clinical diagnostic kits are yet available. the applicable therapy is none. the only treatment available to those infected is supportive therapy, since the active antiviral agents that can combat it are not yet known to medicine. it is clear that the fact that the etiological agent cannot yet be identified raises some important issues for the people of the european union and the rest of the world, even taking into account some of the main aspects that are at the basis of its spread. the virus seems to have spread from one of the major economic centers in the east, through which a large number of things and people pass: china, a country that only today has given its willingness to exchange information; the cuban-chinese internet is impossible to connect to. for all these reasons, the commission is called upon to: first, to set up a task force of experts not a number or a committee to monitor the spread of the disease within the eu; when i go into the operating room, i choose a helper and an assistant, i don't want a school; secondly, to establish, in agreement with the who, a standard isolation procedure for suspected cases in eu citizens, to be applied to all member states, and thus not leaving each state with its own procedure; thirdly, to invite all member states to have a database of persons who have been in or travelled through the areas at risk in the last three months, with monitoring of their health conditions in order to respond promptly in the event of the disease; fourthly, to indicate, in agreement with the who, the methods and timing of quarantine and disinfection of persons, animals and objects coming from the risk areas, thus avoiding different alert levels from one state to another; fifthly, to set up an emergency health fund, as was done in the past in the case of natural disasters, so that each member state can equip itself to deal with this potential epidemic. these organisational and information strategies are crucial to responding quickly and effectively when the vaccine becomes available.
madam president, i should like to begin by congratulating and thanking the rapporteur, mr grosch, for the work he has done in the first reading, in the second reading and for the willingness he has shown to take the suggestions of his colleagues into account, to arrive at this result which i believe is widely shared and therefore with a very good chance of being approved tomorrow in the house. we are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about a subject which is always very dramatically topical. in my country, just last saturday, saturday night, there was yet another, as we call it, "saturday night massacre": four young people died on the streets. it is a ritual that is now repeated dramatically and that has raised the level of social alarm, rightly, about these needless massacres that we are witnessing. there is no doubt that one of the most effective responses is training. like mrs sommer, i took a contrary view when the european road safety agency was mentioned. we do not need any more centralized, perhaps bureaucratic, bodies, but road safety policies. it's different. today i am pleased to say that this act is a step forward in one of the key areas for achieving the goal we all have to set for ourselves: the objective of safety on our roads. why is this one of the fundamental aspects? the training, as has already been said by many colleagues, is becoming permanent by our action, as it should be. we can no longer rely on getting our licenses; we must ensure that those whose professional role is to be played on the road, such as motorists and professional drivers, are constantly monitored, especially for their own safety but also for the safety of other road users. i also thank the rapporteur and the commission, which i see has already made itself available, because if training is to be effective, we must agree: i would like to say that the commission is aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the future of the european union, and that it is not only the european parliament that has been involved in the negotiations on the future of the european union, but also the european parliament, and i would like to say that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the future of the european union. i believe that this act can thus contribute to effective training, which is a guarantee of greater road safety.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before i turn to some specific points, i should like to thank the european commission in the person of mrs reding and her colleagues, and the greek presidency in the person of the minister for education, mr tsiakaris, chairman of the education committee, in a non-formal way. in these two months of close cooperation, it was mainly thanks to their availability that we were able to meet the deadlines we had set for the adoption of this report, which was indeed carried out in a very short time. i would also like to point out that the amendments to the commission's proposal were agreed with the executive and the council representatives. it is clear to all of us that the first significant result we will have achieved by adopting this programme will be to launch the calls for proposals in a short time. since the lisbon council in march 2000, much progress has been made in relation to e-learning, and the proposal for an action for the application of new technologies in education has led today to a legislative resolution which will give birth to a genuine multiannual programme. as i have already argued in the course of the work on the commission's first communication, i have focused in particular on the importance of the role that teachers will have as a channel for the development of digital literacy in our schools. it is in this sense that the issue of teacher training, or at any rate the possibility of equipping teachers to be ready to use the new technologies, is a matter of absolute priority, and the efforts which are seen in the commission's text are certainly to be rewarded and supported. i have nevertheless considered it appropriate to make some amendments to the commission's proposal, first of all on the subject of the multiannual budget. the question i asked myself at the beginning of my work was: what budget can be said to be adequate for such an ambitious multiannual programme? it is not easy to answer this question because resources for culture and education always seem to be particularly scarce. what encouraged me and pushed me in this direction was the proposal made by the european commission itself in the 2003 budget: in fact, eur 18 million was allocated there as a preparatory action from expenditure commitments under budget line b3-1000. the reason why i am amending the proposal for eur 36 million, which has been put forward by the commission itself, is that: is it not at least unusual to decide to spend less each year on a multiannual programme than the estimated expenditure for the preparatory action? in this respect, i would like to congratulate the commission for having reminded it that eur 18 million, multiplied by 3, amounts to eur 54 million, which seems to me to be the most appropriate figure. the second point to be stressed is the issue of the redistribution of the budget. the budget initially included 25% in the commission's proposal to tackle the digital divide. i want to make it clear why i asked for a reduction in this amount in my amendment. i am absolutely convinced that it is useful to combat the digital divide in social terms. i also believe that funds should be sought in other community instruments - the structural funds, the european social fund, the leonardo da vinci programme - because if e-learning funds were to be used to meet the need to bridge the digital divide, essentially to provide minimally adequate responses, almost the entire budget of the e-learning action itself would be absorbed. as regards the electronic twinning of european schools, in line with the objectives adopted in the previous resolution of the european parliament, i wanted to stress that teacher training remains a priority. i would like you to reflect on the fact that in 2002, on average, 90% of primary schools, 98% of secondary schools, 99% of vocational and technical schools in the member states were connected to the internet, but only 39% of teachers, only 50% of secondary school teachers and 58% of teachers in vocational and technical schools used the internet as a teaching tool. in reality, these averages conceal dramatic differences between member states: the average for denmark is about 75%, as opposed to greece's 9%. these figures, which are already very clear, suggest two conclusions: the first concerns the use of the internet as a tool to facilitate teaching. it is not just a question of the availability of infrastructure or school equipment, but also a problem of teacher training and school organisation. the second concerns the use of technological resources. the aim can really be to exchange good practice in this respect at the methodological and didactic level between teachers in different member states, i.e. to set up virtual classrooms. for these reasons i would like to stress that the commission's proposal should give greater importance to finding the most effective ways for teachers to integrate the use of the internet into their teaching and to encourage the dissemination of good practice in this area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are at last at the end of this discharge procedure, which has once again been the subject of much discussion and much comment. it is a pity that at the end of this year there are so few of us in this chamber to talk about it. it has been a very serious matter and, as every year - unfortunately this year with more pronounced malice - it has discredited and even disgraced a general directorate and one man in particular, jean-paul mingasson, whom everyone here knew and held in high esteem. and i want to pay tribute to him publicly for the injustice he has suffered, when all the accusations against him and the directorate-general for budget, with which we have for years cooperated in good faith, have been shown to be unfounded. they have certainly encountered a number of problems, difficulties, which we have dealt with in this discharge as in the others, but this should not have led to the publication in the newspapers of often unfounded accusations by certain colleagues, who are not present at the moment, it seems to me. i would like to pay special tribute to paulo casaca, maría antonia avilés perea, bart staes and the other rapporteurs for the important work they have done, which has led us today to a balanced and dense discharge, in which we are of course asking the commission to settle a number of things, in particular the question of delays. these delays are obviously logical - reform does not happen in a day - but perhaps it was a little unwise to say at the beginning of the parliamentary term that all this would happen very quickly. it takes time. we can see this very clearly in the reform of the statute, and in particular in the reform of the accounting system. we have seen this with the financial regulation, which has given rise to difficult negotiations which have fortunately been successfully concluded. i hope, madam commissioner, that this reform will be completed before the present commission gives way to the next, and i ask you to do so in the interests of the prodi commission. i believe that the reform of this accounting system, which has been the subject of many criticisms - some of which were justified, of course - is important, because this system is in particular at the origin of a very serious problem, that of the ral, the commitments still to be settled, which creates great difficulties for us as an institution, but also as the union vis-à-vis the outside world. and that is why we have asked for a timetable or at least a specific monitoring which i am sure we will be able to carry out and the results of which you could report to us regularly. i think this reform will help you speed things up. we've come through a difficult phase. we also trust you with this exercise. do so, because it is a question of your work over the last five years and also of the confidence we will be giving you in the future, apart from a few marginal negative votes, if i believe the speeches we have heard so far. in any case, the italian radicals will vote in favour of the discharge.
mr president, mr sørensen's report is about the european development fund. let us talk about development. accompanied to the falcon-borsellino airport in palermo by mr mario collesano, the leader and representative of the party of pensioners in sicily, i remembered this report on the european development fund and he recommended that i not only vote in favour but also ask parliament where the money for development goes, since the money invested, for example, in the development of the southern regions of italy, is known to have started from brussels and strasbourg but never reached the european citizens of sicily, calabria and the southern regions, as well as many other developing regions.
i was also in naples, mr president, in beautiful naples, where i was greeted at the airport by the head of the naples party of pensioners, mr fortunato sommella, who, when he asked me to vote in favour of the report which also deals with the budget of the european environment agency, greeted me with the words: "remember, with regard to the environment, that we in naples wish and hope to have support and funds from europe to restore the beautiful hill of camaldoli, which overlooks the gulf of naples, so that the sun of naples can shine, not only here but also from you. therefore i send you to strasbourg, for the day you will speak, fatuzzo, the sun of naples". i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
the report by mr grosch, mr president, rightly raises the concern that there should be an additional test for drivers of goods and passenger vehicles travelling throughout europe. is it dangerous to drive these vehicles? and i was thinking, it is a danger, and it is very difficult, too, to lead governments in europe! would it not be a good idea, then, to organize examinations and training courses also for the heads of government and ministers of the european states, who lead the various countries and carry out such a difficult task?
this is a report by mrs marielle de sarnez on erasmus world. well, erasmus world has reminded me of fantasy world, adventure world, future world, which is disney world. so, this is a program for young people; but when will we have a matusalem world programme, that is to say 200 million euros allocated not only to culture and cooperation through the help of young people, but also to cultural exchange between elderly people, who travel so much around the world?
mr mauro, you have proposed and won from the european parliament €54 million for education and training, which will enable teachers to teach students how to use the new information and communication technologies. as a representative of the party of pensioners and the elderly in europe, i am also asking for eur 54 million to train teachers to teach pensioners and the elderly. i hope that the parliament - which i see here today in large numbers - will listen to me and, at the next opportunity, also vote for 54 million euros for the education of the elderly.
mr president, yesterday evening, 7 april 2003, as i was walking by the hotel near strasbourg station, i had a strange encounter. i met mr carlo fatuzzo on 1 june 1990, the year he had just been elected to the regional parliament of the lombardy region. he stopped me and said: 'look, carlo, you are a member of the european parliament today, and you are asking the parliament - on the occasion of the avilés perea report, which also mentions the committee of the regions - to give more importance to the regions, to give them legislative power, even if only partial, and to allow the elected representatives of the regions from all over europe to be part of the european parliament.'
mr president, after the walk to the hotel before i went to bed, which i mentioned, i went to bed and dreamt of mr staes. he would rush to the european parliament in brussels - it was 9.55pm on a monday - and run up the stairs to get there in time to sign the attendance register, to prove that he had arrived in brussels before 10pm. unfortunately, he couldn't make it in time, and in the dream, he said to me, 'fatuzzo, please vote against my paragraph 104 on page 28, which expresses concern about the extension of the opening hours of the central register of signatures from 7.00 to 22.00. i think it is better that we members arrive on time and do not have to run, as i had to do in this dream".
mr president, mr blak's report also deals with living and working conditions in europe. i must say that a short while ago, as i was walking past the european parliament, i saw a number of elderly people and pensioners visiting the european parliament. one of them recognized me and said: "mr. fatuzzo, i can finally meet you! i know you speak out for the pensioners and the elderly, and i have to say, i have a good life. i have a wonderful living situation because i travel, i do tourism. i would like to see progress made - and i ask for it in the vote on this report by mr blak - so that everyone, young and old alike, can have the same living conditions as we have, who can be tourists in strasbourg.'
after naples, mr president, i went to trieste, and there, on the train to another city in italy, i was greeted by the representative of the party of pensioners in trieste, mr luigi ferone, who said: "fatuzzo, i know you'll have to vote on the european coal and steel community too. now, please tell me that europe must be a europe of steel, because in this situation of the iraq war i have seen what i believe is a europe of butter. we want a strong europe, a europe as strong as steel. that's what you say! " that's what i'm saying.
mr president, commissioner, there are some colleagues who have decided to speak not on the buitenweg report but on the reasons or recommendation which inspired it. these people find it convenient to try to divide this house into those who are against drugs, like them, those who are in favour of our children, our young people, like them, and those who are in favour of drugs and would like all our young people dead. first of all, let's say that the drug today is your drug, it's the free drug: free to be run by the mafia, free to be run by organized crime, free to be killed by overdoses, free to be killed by aids, free to be killed in the squares and streets of our cities. we, the anti-prohibitionists, if anything, against your free and criminal drugs, we are for control, we are for law and legality. we are treating people who use drugs - both legal and illegal drugs today - as consumers, possibly as sick people, but not as criminals. i don't see how you can do your prevention on people who are treated like criminals. fortunately, the european parliament is called upon to debate today what is its responsibility: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european drug policy. you have to confront that, and you refuse to confront that. in 1998, the united nations, under your international conventions, said: "we are launching a ten-year plan: 1998-2008, a drug-free world, a drug-free world: we can do it". that was the big slogan. everything has been proven, including the financial agreements with the taliban, european money that was given to the taliban regime before 9/11 to buy the eradication of opium cultivation; we bought the fumigation of the valleys in the andes in south america, we bought the helicopters, the armies, we bought the militarization of our societies. after five years we have the growth of drug consumption, production, market diversification, more and more drugs, more and more aggressive, new molecules, new substances. so today, five years later, we are faced with a factual situation, not an ideological debate. what we are asking, what the buitenweg report is asking, is that we accept an evaluation of the results. if our policies were applied to government today, i think we would be willing to accept that assessment. i don 't see why you 're not . in fact, you can see why. when there is an ideology, when you transfer a morality from the individual morality of each of us - and i don't think mine is necessarily worse than yours - to a morality of the state, you build the ethical state, and prohibitionism moves from drugs to debate, to science, so much so that we treat cannabis and the coca leaf as heroin. i would like to see if you would agree to this equal treatment if it were your son or daughter who was a user or abuser of cannabis or heroin! the speech could go on, but i'm out of time. i hope that members of parliament from all political parties will at least accept the challenge of debate and evaluation, not ideological confrontation.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am very sorry about mr cappato's ears, but i shall ring the bell again which he does not like. this is a substantive report, not a passing one, as you would have us believe. for many years the un has been taking a stand against the producers and dealers of drugs, clearly indicating the degree of danger of the various substances and strongly advocating the need to combat illicit trafficking and the proliferation of crime at all levels. after the 1961 un convention, there were further pronouncements: the commission has also adopted a number of proposals for the now, in view of the interministerial conference next week in vienna, the european parliament is being asked to present its own proposal, its own position. it's definitely not easy after what we've heard. however, starting from these broad assumptions, the report, which seems to be balanced, reaches the usual conclusions, which regularly divide this parliament and even divide public opinion: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. some colleagues said recently: tell me where these words are! i'm in, just read the report. in addition, there is clear evidence that the alternative substance treatment method is the most effective system, the most direct tool to combat drug addiction. nothing more false here: as is well known, this method is contested in many member states, as it does not allow addicts to recover, but simply to be socially anesthetized. in short, the important thing is to remove the problem; it's not so much the recovery of the person that counts for this kind of method. the report also lacks the necessary measures to prevent the phenomenon in the future. however, the attempt to liberalize cannabis as a non-hazardous substance is not acceptable because there is no scientific evidence to that effect. if it is true - i am opening a window here for those who think otherwise - that not everyone who starts smoking goes on to heavy drugs, it seems now certain that everyone who is now a heroin addict started smoking weed or smoking pot. these different views have already emerged during the debate in the committee on civil liberties and justice, and it is no coincidence that this report was adopted by 24 votes to 20. the documentation is therefore quite clear, showing how difficult it is in this matter to claim absolute truths, but also to provide unassailable and equally absolute recipes.
the rapporteur. mr president, i am a little embarrassed, in the sense that we lack the political interlocutor for a debate like this, namely the council. i think that a high-level presence would be necessary on an issue which is so important to parliament. that said, and so that it will at least be recorded in the minutes of our proceedings, i should like to thank all my colleagues in the committee on civil liberties and in particular mr gérard deprez and mr christian von boetticher for the effort they have made and for the work which has enabled us to reach a common position. first of all, i would like to remind you that parliament has repeatedly asked the council to reform the europol convention in such a way that it provides for effective democratic control and powers over this body. i am simply quoting the reports by mr nassauer, mr karamanou and mr deprez: in these reports we are still calling for greater involvement of parliament in the budgetary procedure and for europol to be financed from the community budget. calls for parliament's involvement in the appointment and dismissal of the director and deputy directors of europol and for the appointment of two representatives elected by parliament to attend the meetings of the management board; we call for full respect for parliament's right to be informed and consulted. we call for the europol convention to be revised to bring it into line with the highest standards and methods of democratic control. we call for the strengthening of judicial review by the court of justice. we are also calling for the communityisation of europol. the european commission has already spoken about democratic control, proposing the establishment of a joint committee, composed of members of the committees responsible for police matters of the european parliament and the member states. the issue of democratic control of europol was also recently discussed in the convention's freedom, security and justice working party. according to the group's minutes, during a hearing europol director jürgen storbeck stated that parliamentary scrutiny of europol is currently unclear. he points to the difficulties of being accountable to too many national parliaments and that more rigorous and efficient democratic control would be in europol's interest. mr storbeck also mentioned the prospect of control by the european parliament as a possible solution. the same convention working party has produced a final report in which it states that europol's activities will in future be subject to democratic control by the european parliament and the council and to judicial review by the european court of justice in accordance with the usual rules of the treaty. despite all these repeated appeals and specific proposals, we are now discussing a protocol to the europol convention on which the european parliament is being consulted. this protocol not only fails to solve the problems mentioned, it fails to address them. and the results, between the current monitoring powers and the reform proposals contained in the protocol, are extremely disappointing. in the face of all this, we in the committee - and i hope the house will do so tomorrow - in stressing that the repeated requests and proposals for a real and better control of the democratic powers of europol have been ignored, cannot but denounce that the proposed amendments are mainly aesthetic in nature and are an affront to the european parliament and the european citizens who elected it. the council has not responded to our repeated requests for increased powers on the budget, on appointment and dismissal procedures, on the participation of our representatives on the board of directors. nor did it follow the commission's proposal for a joint committee, nor the opinion of the director of europol in favour of greater control. in these circumstances, parliament will maintain its present role vis-à-vis europol, will continue to debate without anyone listening to it and will put forward proposals without anyone acting on them. it is inevitable that sooner or later the council will realise that greater democratic control and power over europol is the only guarantee for its proper functioning and management in the interests of all. the rejection and the resolution we have tabled reiterate this: it was a painful decision, as i said. we have debated this four times in committee, but in the end all the political groups have agreed on this document. it will probably be the umpteenth time, but it is inevitable that the council cannot continue to ignore this position forever, which is no longer just the position of parliament, while i hope and hope for a good word from commissioner vitorino for decisive action, as he has been able to provide so many decisive actions during this legislature.
mr president, i would remind you that the first objective stated in the treaty on european union is to promote economic progress. i hope that no one forgets this when talking about enlargement to new countries. one more thing: cyprus is one of these new countries. cyprus is partly occupied by foreign troops. as long as cyprus is an independent state, these are the affairs of the republic of cyprus; the day cyprus becomes part of the european union, i think it is unacceptable to have turkish troops occupying part of our union!
the rapporteur. mr president, we are witnessing an act of justice and morality in this house today: european countries, as european as those already within the union but which, through a joke of history, have found themselves, through no fault of their own, beyond a line artificially drawn on our continent, are returning to europe, they are returning to us. we welcome their return with joy and admiration, admiration for all the suffering they have had to endure, for the heroism they have shown during the long decades under the communist dictatorship. among all these countries returning to europe, poland has a special role and weight, not only because it is the largest country, but because it is there, in poland - as commissioner verheugen has reminded us - to which we owe our gratitude for the enormous and excellent work done - which started the battle for freedom from tyranny, which then served as an example and encouragement to other countries. without poland and - let me remind you here of a forgotten leader - without lech walesa, the berlin wall might not have fallen yet. it is difficult, at this important moment for our parliament, not to recall the four years of accession negotiations, often difficult, often complex, given the difference and disparity between the respective levels of development. but if the poles have managed to overcome the difficulties and come to the end of the negotiations today, it is thanks to an enormous effort of society, thanks to its enthusiasm and the commitment of successive governments in warsaw that all, all, regardless of their political colour, have fought for the common strategic goal of their country's accession to the european union. of course it 's not over . the european union is not a party to the maastricht treaty, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. and here i must say that we still have some concerns, which i have expressed in the past, about the transparency of the state bureaucracy, about corruption and about the independence of the media, but i am sure that poland will pass this examination as well. our parliament has also played an important role in giving a strong impetus to the accession process. we have sent messages of solidarity, encouragement and warnings, but always with consistency and determination. that is why the public in the candidate countries saw the european parliament as a credible body, committed to bringing its mutilated part back into europe so that justice can be done. the decision we took to open up europe to the countries that already belonged to it is a political decision, not an accounting decision, not based on numbers and accounts that would not justify this process, but based on an idea of justice. i am sorry to note that some members do not feel this need for justice and are preparing today to abstain or even vote against accession, for reasons which are perhaps respectable but not acceptable, at least as far as i am concerned. the least acceptable of these reasons is that which justifies their 'no' as retaliation, almost as punishment, against those countries which have spoken out in favour of the american intervention in iraq. this means denying the applicant countries a right which some of the countries of the union have fortunately - i repeat, fortunately - exercised freely. mr president, if i may conclude with a personal note, a personal parenthesis: i am half polish and half italian, but i assure you that on this subject - on the subject of the war in iraq - i am much more proud than my polish half, because poland was able to send two hundred soldiers to iraq to fight, as many other times in its history, for our freedom, for the freedom of all of us. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. mr president, new cultures will add added value and new security to individual states and the european family. let this be the time of half-full glasses, of optimism and advantages, but of course there will be the time of difficulties, of half-empty glasses. the european socialists have always fought with conviction for an enlarged europe. the countries bordering the mediterranean, which are the gateway to the heart of europe, have played an important role in this process. we are in favour of open doors for those who aspire to join the european family, but there is no automatic right to join our club: the entry is achieved through a lot of hard work, as the negotiators in the candidate countries know. i am the rapporteur for slovenia, the richest country among the applicant countries, with a european tradition also in the institutional field. the main problem in the preparatory phase was to 'accelerate the legal/administrative processes and to resolve the problems left open by the previous regime'. this was a similar situation, but less complex than in some other candidate countries. even when we join europe, we all have to fulfil our commitments. the tables, which international organisations award to slovenia, speak of a functioning market economy and of compliance with the copenhagen criteria, which set the level to be achieved in the field of fundamental freedoms. the report mistakenly includes a paragraph on the fight against fraud, corruption and drug trafficking. these are phenomena which exist, but to a much lesser extent than other realities, and perhaps that is why their mention throws the text off balance. the best solution would be to delete the header. one more technical note: the term 'denationalisation' which i used in the original text has been translated as 'privatisation', but it expresses a different concept. we have come a long way on the road to a new europe and today's sitting is almost a general test of what the assembly will be like tomorrow. parliament approves the progress made by the candidates on which the european council will decide. the treaty of nice opened the fast track to enlargement and set the timetable to be respected, which, despite all the difficulties, has been respected so far. as previous accessions to europe have brought economic benefits, strengthened democracy and the institutions, we are confident that this time will be the same.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank commissioner verheugen for his very diligent work on the enlargement issue. i would also like to thank mr brok and mr wynn, whose speech i share the credit, and the greek presidency. every moment is history, but not every moment is the same, and this is a moment more important than any other. i say this without rhetoric but with the awareness of the responsibility we have to say 'yes' or 'no' to this fact. we are gradually restoring the integrity and unity of europe, its culture, its traditions, its peoples, its children. we are not finished with this great building work. we received the president of the republic of macedonia yesterday and our thoughts are already with the balkans, with the area which has won peace thanks to our efforts and is beginning to build democracy, the rule of law, the social state, the economic fabric and international relations. and then there could be moldova, ukraine, assuming that romania and bulgaria will be coming in four years. the road ahead will be more challenging with turkey, because we have to reconcile the idea of society that this country has with ours. finally, we cannot forget russia, with which the european union must have increasingly integrated and organic relations. but all this will find a positive cultural ground if the community method prevails. this european union will live and develop if the community method prevails in the convention - and i say this for the second time. the council's further position on the budget is contrary to the trend and absolutely negative. if intergovernmental selfishness wins, europe will be set back, delayed, but no one will be able to stop history. i therefore hope that the new ten member states will join parliament in supporting a comparison which the governments of those old member states, who have a pessimistic view of the union, do not have. the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the people.
mr president, i voted in favour of the accession of all these countries of central and eastern europe, malta and cyprus because i have great hope that in the future we will have a parliament with a greater number of representatives of pensioners and of the pensioners' parties in these member states. i am sorry to see that this vote has been accompanied by a large protest by employees of the european communities, who are facing a reduction in their future pension arrangements. i therefore express my deepest solidarity with them and i hope and hope that the future parliament, including the member states' representatives, will start with the employees of europe to ensure a future of peace and respect for the elderly.
- mr president, i have to go. i would like to point out that i am a strong supporter of enlargement and have been a strong advocate of this policy, including as chairman of the delegation for slovenia. i would like to say, on the subject of the czech republic, that i had always hoped that the czech republic would throw off the burden of the past in time and give us a lighthearted and happy opportunity to vote in favour of the czech republic's accession to the european union. unfortunately, this has not happened because of the lack of courage on the part of many czech politicians, and this is also the reason for my vote against and my solidarity with the vote by mr ferber. i hope that in the future the czechs will find a way of working together at the same table on history.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report on the accession of the czech republic to the european union. my vote, however, did not alter the majority which was recorded in this vote. i voted in this way because i hope, i expect, i hope that in the next parliament, which will be elected in 2004 and in which the representatives of the czech republic will be present, there will also be representatives of the party of pensioners of this country, so that we have more strength and more opportunity to defend the rights of pensioners, which could be done better if there were more representatives of the parties of pensioners in europe in this chamber.
mr president, i voted in favour of the republic of estonia's accession to the european union because, as the sole representative in this european parliamentary chamber of the party of pensioners elected in italy, i hope, i hope, i hope that in the next european parliament there will also be a representation of the party of pensioners of estonia, which i hope will join this chamber and work with me in the interests of respect for the elderly in the future of europe.
mr president, i voted enthusiastically in favour of the accession of the republic of cyprus to the european union. as the only representative of the italian party of pensioners elected to this house, i hope, i hope, i hope that the republic of cyprus will also elect, in this case, two representatives of the party of pensioners of cyprus: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this will give us greater strength to defend the interests of the elderly throughout europe.
mr president, i voted in favour of latvia's accession to the european union. as the sole representative of the italian party of pensioners in this house, i hope and hope that in the next european parliament, extended to include the republic of latvia, the latvians will elect among their representatives a representative of the party of pensioners who, together with the other - i hope many - representatives of the party of pensioners from all the states that will enter the european parliament for the first time in 2004, will help to defend the interests of the elderly.
mr president, today, 9 april 2003, i voted in favour of lithuania's accession to the european union. i also hope that a representative of the lithuanian party of pensioners will come to help defend the rights of all the elderly throughout europe.
mr president, i voted in favour of hungary joining the european union. since there are at least 200 million pensioners in an enlarged europe, i hope that hungary's entry into the european parliament with its own representatives will make it possible to have a number of meps that is proportional and proportionate to the number of pensioners in europe. i hope therefore that the pensioners of hungary will also send a representative to this parliament to defend the interests of the elderly throughout europe better and more forcefully.
mr president, today, 9 april 2003, i voted with great enthusiasm for the accession and the welcome of the republic of malta to the european union, with the hope that malta too could elect a representative of the party of pensioners to the next european parliament, so that together we can, with the other representatives of the parties of pensioners from all the other candidate states, have more power to defend the interests of the elderly throughout europe.
i hope, mr president, that poland - whose membership i voted for - will also be represented in the next european parliament, and that i will have a representative of the polish party of pensioners here with me, so that i myself will have more strength to defend the elderly all over europe together.
given, mr president, that there is already a pensioners' party in slovenia called desus in the government, i hope that it will send its representative to this parliament so that pensioners not only in slovenia but in all the states of the new europe that will emerge from the 2004 elections to this european parliament will be able to see a massive presence of defenders of the rights of the elderly from the pensioners' parties in all these states, including slovenia.
mr president, i also voted in favour of the report giving a favourable opinion on the accession of the slovak republic to the european union and i hope that in the next european parliament, which will be elected in 2004, there will be at least one representative of the party of pensioners of the slovak republic, so that the interests of the elderly throughout europe can be defended in greater numbers.
mr president, recent international events have once again demonstrated the need for a european union capable of joint action, both when it comes to defending its security and when it is necessary to defend the right of all peoples to aspire to a democratic and pluralist system which therefore respects human and civil rights; a europe which can finally bring together the diplomacy, the diplomatic services and the information systems of each national state in order to achieve that cooperation which makes it clear to the council that it is necessary to always confront each other on international policy problems in order to arrive at choices which are as representative as possible of the union as a whole. it is a priority to bring all foreign and defence policy debate and the choices that follow from it back to the council, as is the identification of a single european representative for these two policies, a problem that has also been addressed by the convention. the meetings held by certain states outside the council, while remaining legitimate initiatives, do not, however, constitute initiatives of the european union. it is therefore clear that we are committed to a european security and defence policy which, including its military instrument, as proposed by mr morillon, can safeguard peace and guarantee democracy. this european military force will complement the national armies of each member state and will also give a further impetus to the growth of european citizenship, a citizenship which also stems from the pride that every citizen must feel in belonging to his or her nation and to the union: a free and independent union, which carries a project of peace and mutual respect for the rest of the world, a project which cannot be based solely on the production of documents, the expression of goodwill or the establishment of trade relations, but which must offer adequate forces to fight terrorism in defence of our values, our worldview and our institutions of freedom.
mr president, the morillon report puts european defence in a realistic and responsible context of solidarity and complementarity with the united states, and therefore represents a challenging step forward, made up of forecasts, economic sacrifices and military investment. a necessary and urgent step from not underestimating the new terrorist and state threats; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european research area. the report excludes dangerous illusions which would not make the world safer or more democratic, much less make europe more united. among these dangerous illusions is the rebirth of a one-sided pacifism, which renews yesterday's "better red than dead" one, and there is also the illusion of an independent, strong and authoritative europe because it is divorced from the united states: the european parliament has been a party to the treaty of rome since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that is responsible for the decisions taken by the european parliament. it is an illusion that has deep roots in european nationalism and outdated ideologies, an illusion that explains the strange right-left alliance in the face of the war in iraq and that exalts, conversely, the value of democratic interventionism. a political illusion more dangerous than imperial unilateralism and blind pacifism: claiming to lead europe, he divided it; the european union has divided the fifteen, it has offended the countries of eastern europe while reunification is in progress, it has widened the distance with the united states and, by anticipating the use of the right of veto, it has helped to paralyse the security council, providing justifications for military intervention outside the un. the union must clarify its political vision before it can rely on institutional engineering; it must guarantee the security of its people, its territory and its borders, as it has failed to do in the balkans. the european union must take note of the end of arms control, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction in the hands of bloodthirsty dictatorships and must work resolutely against terrorism for the security of israel and a democratic palestinian state. if the union is to be an ally, not a subordinate and not hostile to the united states, neither resigned nor resentful, it must build a common defence, gradually assume the leadership of the atlantic alliance in which the united states now commits only 8% of its forces. the european union must be able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the european union's security policy and its development, which must be consolidated, developed and extended to the whole of the union.
i do not know whether this horrible war of neo-colonial aggression against iraq will soon come to an end; i know for a fact that i will not be celebrating the victory of the american imperialists in the war that all of humanity has fought but failed to prevent. i believe that a stumbling block to bush's war could have come from a united european position, but the european union has emerged and is divided, therefore impotent and ineffective. it was not enough that the americans did not have the european consensus; the commission's proposal was to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. never before has there been such a lack of a unified and united voice in this tragic situation; the lack of a european presence with a seat on the united nations security council has never been strongly felt. europe must and can only count on its own independent foreign and defence policy in the world, its own independent economic, political and even military force, not in opposition to the united states but independent of them. and europe solemnly declares, first and foremost, its vocation and commitment to peace, with a simple and clear declaration such as the one we propose in our amendment: europe rejects war as a means of settling international disputes.
madam president, i consider the issues dealt with in this report to be the most important from a strategic point of view but also the most urgent of the european priorities: the union's ability to act in the fields of defence and security, as well as the fight against terrorism, in the context of a united and coherent foreign policy. i therefore support the morillon report and will support all the proposals which will make these policies more credible and more serious: the increase in national defence budgets within this union perspective; a share of the union budget to support research and development; programming aimed at integration and at ending duplication and dispersion; ad hoc cooperation or enhanced cooperation, in case some member states legitimately do not want to participate in this commitment; the loyal and efficient integration of european defence into a renewed nato and the reaffirmed intangible transatlantic alliance. after the very serious crisis in iraq, even those who previously disagreed with these ideas have to pull their heads out of the sand. a concrete and visionary roadmap must be proposed at the same time, as was done for monetary union. the convention, madam president, must listen to the opinion of the great majority of europeans who, together with our parliament, are calling for a return to effective multilateralism and a europe capable of acting.
madam president, at a time of tension and division, mr morillon's report is particularly useful, since it explains that if europe is to be a credible actor, it must be united and strengthen its military capabilities. the war in iraq is such a dramatic event that it is not surprising that it has caused crucial divisions among member states; but i can already see the first signs of repentance and, as we say here, the temptation to come to the aid of the american winner is already strong. the countries that were against the war are already positioning themselves to pick up some crumbs, to participate in the reconstruction. but as general morillon said - a french general but a major european player - you cannot expect to participate in the decision-making process if you do not also share the burdens. i hope that these fantastic political visions - which i heard a few moments ago in this chamber - of the united states invading syria, cuba and i do not know which other countries after iraq will soon be over. the divisions between member states were not matched by european public opinion, the vast majority of which was opposed to american intervention. fortunately, there have been leaders in europe who have defied public opinion and have set out their own vision of world peace: i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter. i believe that when europe has its own military capability, as the morillon report hopes, and its own foreign policy, its role in the world will become dominant, and i only hope that it will then be able to take the right decisions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. mr president, commissioner, this proposal for a directive aims to regulate, with safety and quality standards, the therapeutic activities based on the use of tissues and cells of human origin, which take place annually in europe and which now affect hundreds of thousands of patients. the sector is also set to expand not only into the traditional field of transplants - for example, of cornea, skin and heart valves - but also, thanks to advances in biotechnology, into reconstructive surgery, reproductive medicine and the treatment of diseases such as cancer, diabetes and parkinson's disease. it is therefore a field of particular interest to european research centres and businesses, which must be able to develop. however, respect for ethical imperatives is fundamental to the use of tissues and cells of human origin. the proposal for a directive therefore imposes high standards of quality and safety for substances of human origin in order to protect health. however, these ethical imperatives need to be further defined: first, by ensuring full health safety, to prevent or reduce the risk of disease transmission, including in the case of human tissues and cells from third countries; secondly, by ensuring that the human body is respected when it is taken from a living or deceased donor. in this respect, the obligation to give informed consent in a specific form by the donor or by the donor's family members and the prohibition on the taking of cells and tissues from foetuses resulting from voluntary termination of pregnancy and from cloned human cells are particularly important. thirdly, by respecting the privacy and confidentiality of the information collected during the collection of tissues: donation must be anonymous, both to the donor and to the recipient, without prejudice to traceability requirements. personal and family data may not be disclosed to third parties such as employers, insurance companies also to avoid the risk of unjustified discrimination. fourthly, considering the principle of the gravity of donations: the donation is a voluntary act of human solidarity, but it can be adequately encouraged by specific action and by proper information from the states. this requirement should also be maintained with regard to imports from third countries. with these considerations, i believe that the directive as a whole can represent a step forward in the harmonization of legislation between the member states, which is moving in the direction of greater protection of the health of european citizens.
mr president, commissioner, i sincerely hope that this report, on which our friend peter liese has devoted so much energy, will be able to have a physiological, euthotic birth, without the use of force, as was the case with the report on blood, a report which has been controversial for many years but for which we have succeeded, with effective, intelligent and motivated cooperation between parliament, the commission and the council, in finding a solution after so many years. i shall make only a few remarks tonight, four in particular: firstly, i think it is right - as peter liese said - that the donation of cells and tissues should be voluntary and not paid, a principle already endorsed in the blood report. however, where industries have contributed to improving the quality and preservation of cells and tissues, for example by genetically engineering tissues to make them histocompatible, it is also right to recognise appropriate compensation. secondly, i hope that amendment no 83 proposed by the undersigned and by mr liese will be adopted, which calls on the commission to draw up, as soon as possible, new rules on the back-differentiation of adult cells into stem cells. the retrodifferentiation of adult cells obtained by transferring their nucleus, rather than into a nucleus-free oocyte, into a medium rich in nutrients and other growth factors, could overcome the current ethical problems concerning the therapeutic use of human embryonic stem cells. thirdly, as regards the use of stem cells for research purposes, i hope that the rules laid down in the sixth framework programme will always remain valid and that today we cannot let in through the window what has not entered through the door. fourthly, and finally, i agree with the commission's proposal that the directive should cover the use of cells and tissues for research when it is carried out on humans, but not when it is experimental research in vitro or on animal models. i would therefore ask the rapporteur, mr peter liese, if amendments nos 7 and 19 are adopted, to find greater flexibility during the second reading to avoid burdensome administrative procedures slowing down research in europe in areas of fundamental importance, such as pharmacogenetics and pharmacogenomics, aimed at designing new drugs which are much more effective and free from toxic effects.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the commission on the proposal it has put forward and also on the speech it has made in this house. mr liese has certainly made and is making an effort to find a compromise acceptable to this parliament, but i believe that the main enemy of the search for such a compromise and of the serious work that has been done by the commission and by many colleagues is the attempt by some of them to introduce into this report matters which have nothing to do with this directive. in particular, i think that the report by mr bartolozzi and the position of many colleagues who have tried and are trying to sneak the issue of termination of pregnancy and embryonic stem cells into this directive do a disservice to the serious work that many colleagues are trying to do. as far as we are concerned, as radical members of the emma bonino list, we can only vote against all the amendments which seek to introduce these matters in this way. it is not our intention - and i am addressing this to mrs montfort and other colleagues who have raised this point - to assume that embryonic stem cells will magically solve all genetically related problems and diseases. the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers. let us not become the parliament that seeks and seeks a vote on a morality, the 'single european morality'. let us instead concentrate on finding political, pragmatic and practical solutions to the problems raised by the directive and to which the commission is trying to provide a solution with this directive.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, i would not like to take up my time to explain the work done and its significance at a technical level, because i believe that it is sufficiently well known; i am not saying that this is a matter of presumption, but that it is a matter of the clear commitment of my colleagues in the committee on the environment, first of all in the presentation of a number of amendments. i can only thank them for this, because there is no doubt that, beyond the general purpose of introducing one's own ideas into a report, the ultimate aim is to improve the report itself and its effectiveness in the common, general interest; i should like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups for their sensitivity and willingness to draw up eight compromises, which contained concepts, objectives and proposals. i am therefore of the opinion that the work which has come out of the committee on the environment and has reached the house is as much involved as could be expected since the commission submitted its proposal to parliament. i repeat, i do not say this for personal praise but to credit all the colleagues who have worked on this report. it cannot be said, of course, that it is exhaustive of the problems inherent in detergents; the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i am referring to the attitude to be taken towards phosphates, for example, the attitude to be adopted towards the anaerobic biodegradability of surfactants or, again, the measure to be set for the biodegradability of the additional components of detergents. it therefore seemed to everyone that it was necessary to set a deadline for requesting the opinion of the executive committee to complete the speech. it can be said, however, that what counted in the work of amending the proposal under consideration was first and foremost the aim of making the article and its values more usable, more functional and more organic. this, however, was the operating philosophy and, in the context of this work, it is worth pointing out that, alongside the search for greater usability, functionality and organicity of the proposed rules, two further objectives were pursued: the first concerns the implementation of a practical sensitivity towards small and medium-sized enterprises, especially as manifested in the context of the derogation, without losing sight of the need to pursue ever greater protection of the environment, human health and animal welfare. the second, within the finally mandatory labelling system, is aimed at increasing consumer awareness in making their choices, without in any way overshadowing, or even enhancing, the valuable work of the organisations working to protect them. having said that, i would like to return for a moment to the fact that the regulation under consideration is certainly not exhaustive of the overall issues related to detergents, and this is not to criticise the work of the executive commission but to highlight two further aspects that have marked the issuance of this, but also of the previous regulations on detergents: the first - as i mentioned at the beginning of my speech - was the ratio of approach to the problem, the choice of which by the commission was characterised by the gradualness of the implementation of the legislation. the second, which almost justifies the first, is the need to call on the work of a third body, in the specific case a scientific committee, to carry out the implementation itself. the work to amend the regulation in question was aimed at assessing the tasks assigned to the committee and at referring those which were considered to be political, rather than technical, to parliament's examination and opinion: this is also a task that is underpinned by the joint commitment of the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs. if, therefore, the two last-mentioned aspects are true as they are and if it is true that the work in the committee on the environment was fruitful and widely shared, it is puzzling that some colleagues, without taking anything away from the subjective right of each, have tabled further amendments for the plenary. however, i must say that i agree with the points made by nos 47, 52, 53 and 60, which undoubtedly add important additional aspects in a complementary way. i must also say that i am essentially neutral in relation to the amendments under nos 56 and 61, which merely move topics within the regulation itself, while i must express a strong disagreement with the others, and this is certainly not because of an a priori denial of their content, nor because they partly contradict the agreement expressed in committee, but because, if they were to be accepted, they would provide the text with no more undeniable protections than the compromise of that organicity, functionality and usability to which i referred, consistent with that gradualness of legislation based on the scientific approach.
madam president, i would like to express once again my full support for the commission's proposal, which brings together in this regulation the five directives currently in existence on the biodegradability of surfactants, and my appreciation for the work done by the rapporteur, who has helped to make this proposal more organic by ensuring a very constructive relationship with the other groups, which allows us to bring to the vote in the house a largely uniform final product. the key aspects of this legislation are health, consumer safety and the protection and respect of the environment. the amendments tabled on behalf of my group are precisely those which are designed to better ensure these objectives and those which are inspired by the three principles which form the basis of the work of the committee on the environment: the commission has also proposed that the member states should take measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. the fact that the scope of the regulation has been limited to the biodegradability of surfactants contained in detergents does not restrict the application of those principles. i believe that anaerobic biodegradation, the biodegradation of the main non-surface-active organic ingredients and phosphates should be the subject of specific regulation, as a complementary matter to the regulation of detergents. i also agree with the view that the use of product-specific legislation should be envisaged in order to impose stricter requirements on safety, use and environmental protection than those already provided for by horizontal legislation. it is for this reason that we all join in calling on the commission to come forward with a new legislative proposal, aimed at progressively banning these substances, or limiting their specific uses, within three years of the entry into force of this regulation. finally, i believe that it is appropriate to refer to a single labelling for this type of everyday products, which enables the consumer to recognise, and the producer to promote, products with a lower impact on the environment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the regulation under discussion is very important and urgent, and i also believe that the work of mrs nobilia, for which i congratulate her, has been efficient and, as mr bowis said a short while ago, very sensitive, and has had a positive result for all parties involved. i think it is very important - and i am more than convinced - that much more needs to be done on environmental issues. i know that the european union is the driving force behind this issue, although some countries have already banned phosphates for a long time. italy is one of them and, during my time in the italian parliament, as a member of the committee responsible, among other things, i contributed to the drafting of the legislative texts in this direction. i believe that other countries, which do not yet have legislation in this respect, should adapt as quickly as possible, not only to have and demonstrate greater sensitivity, but to ensure greater attention to environmental needs and, on the other hand, also to provide more information to consumers. i do not share certain objections raised in the house, such as those of a colleague from the environment group who, as usual, when the proposals do not come from that political party, always sees only the negative aspects - the glass half empty, so to speak - and not the positive ones. i think there are many, many positive aspects which concern all the parties involved and i believe that the question of toxicological tests is already dealt with in the dangerous substances directive, so there is no need to create duplicates with this regulation. i would now like to turn to a problem that has been raised recently by various experts and scientists: the increase in hormones in our waters, which has a major impact on aquatic life, with fish changing sex and having difficulty reproducing. i think this is a subject to which we should pay more attention in the future. finally, i believe that to be qualified to give an opinion on these matters, different qualifications are required; it's not enough to know how to load the washing machine. every consumer is involved, and although this regulation is of a rather technical nature, it ultimately concerns all consumers, that is, the whole population.
mr president, a lot has already been said. i think we must express a clear condemnation of the fidel castro regime, but we must also try to be close to the cuban people, who are suffering at the moment because, on the one hand, they are suffering the effects of an embargo, and on the other hand they are suffering repression. we do not make the mistake of not understanding the plight of this people and we are trying - also on the part of the commission - to intervene in the cuban situation in such a way as to isolate the castro regime but also to support the cuban people in their fundamental and economic rights. i was among those who - although i understand that these few minutes do not allow us to go into the situation in cuba in depth - argued that we should have a resolution at this moment on arrests and especially on sentences, which are not disproportionate but unfounded, and the absurd thing is that we are talking about life sentences and even death sentences; and the absurd thing is that the regime is serious, because 26 years have already been committed. i would also like to say to my colleagues that no political tendency is spared here, since many social democratic representatives have also been in castro's prisons. that is why i too believe that we must give a clear signal and we await the commission's reaction.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i shall abstain on this resolution. i regard the arrests of these weeks as a thank you for our support for cuba's accession to the acp, a thank you for the visit of commissioner poul nielson two or three weeks ago and the opening of a commission office in cuba. the dictator castro thanked us. now, this resolution, which is a beautiful denunciation, does not speak about the things we should do - mr ribeiro has spoken about this - it does not speak about the things the european union should do to put an end to this dictatorship. we are not talking about suspending the aid of the member states, not just the commission, or suspending any discussion of the cotonou agreements: there is no precise measure of pressure on this government. so if dictator castro were to release anyone in the next few weeks, we might as well make a resolution to thank him. in my opinion, we are playing - unintentionally, i know - the dictator castro's game. this regime is bearing fruit, and the number of prisoners is proof that castro can no longer handle the situation: it's time to give the final push by proposing exile to this obscene character because he is literally obscene so that those who fight for democracy can finally run this country.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the european commission for the work it has done and for the positive developments it has made in the case of professor saad eddin ibrahim, for whom this parliament had asked to be released. well, thanks to the european commission's activism, this goal has been achieved. we hope that the same patience and strength will be put into solving this case. most of it has been said, but perhaps we have forgotten one thing: the democratic clause in the various agreements with third countries must not be ignored to the letter. i would like to make it clear to my colleagues and to the commission that it is no longer acceptable that european taxpayers' money is increasingly used to promote dictatorial regimes and to encourage human rights violations, while at the same time drowning out any hope of freedom and democracy in these countries. and this is the dividing line: we must know whether these debates are really destined to remain in our records or whether we want to decide once and for all to make that leap which is a clear and definitive political choice.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said by all those who have gone before me, mr nicholson has done a very good job in getting most - if not all - of the commission to appreciate the compromise and amendment proposals he has put forward, which are very useful and necessary. we are in full agreement with the commission, madam commissioner, on the need and usefulness of this measure. others before me have already explained the reasons. it is necessary to offer ever greater guarantees to consumers, to the users of air transport, just as it is necessary that this sector gradually reach a regulatory and rights-protecting environment in order to guarantee the same opportunity for development and consumer confidence. it is true, madam commissioner, and this is unfortunately nothing new to me, that although you have drawn a fair and effective line on air transport, the relevant commission services have since demonstrated, and this is not the first time, that they have taken a somewhat too rigid approach to detail. as you know, i am the rapporteur on the overbooking measure, where we have seen the same rigidity as we see today in the insurance sector. what do i mean by rigidity? i am referring to a somewhat over-simplistic approach which does not take account of the two fundamental factors already mentioned. first, air transport is not a one-way street: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. the second element which is not sufficiently taken into account is the delicate phase this sector is going through, not so much because of the economic difficulties - september 11, the middle east, the war in iraq, now sars, which, as you know, commissioner, has already caused twice as much damage in terms of air traffic as iraq - but rather because, in the face of these economic difficulties, while american airlines enjoy almost total and absolute support from the us government, we leave our own airlines alone most of the time to deal with the just demands we make on them and the just adjustments we ask of them. in conclusion, therefore, a good measure had to be put forward, but i think that, again, without the wisdom of parliament's intervention, perhaps the good result which we can approve and confirm today would not have been achieved.
the commission (es) mr president, it is a pleasure for me to take the floor today on behalf of my colleague, commissioner busquin, and on behalf of the commission. i should like to begin by congratulating the european parliament on its initiatives to draw the attention of the member states, who are - let us remember - the european protagonists in the space sector, but also to draw their attention to the need to take bold and important decisions in a sector which is in crisis, such as the space sector at the moment. the wide-ranging debate on the commission's green paper on european space policy highlights several points. i would first mention the need to restructure the launcher sector to ensure europe's access to space. secondly, i would like to reiterate - and the whole commission is with me - the urgency of reaching agreement within the european space agency on galileo. i would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that i think it is essential that there should be an agreement as soon as possible within the european space agency, which we have been waiting for for too long. first it was some countries, now it's others. in any case, we reached an agreement on the community level a year ago during the spanish presidency. at the moment, unfortunately, there is still no agreement in the space agency, and i would remind the honourable members that the intergovernmental system is working. i would like to remind you, with regard to galileo, that it is one of the major projects essential to the maintenance of our space sector, and that if we do not launch the joint venture to carry out this project very quickly, we risk having difficulties in maintaining the allocation of frequencies which we achieved in the year 2000 by overcoming all kinds of obstacles. i would therefore like to stress once again the european interest, the need to reach agreement on this matter as soon as possible and to overcome national differences. finally, the commission supports the work of the convention aimed at inscribing space as a shared competence in the future treaty on european union. the initial guidelines resulting from the green paper consultation process are converging in favour of defining a space policy for the european union and implementing it through an ambitious space programme. i would like to say, however, before i close, ladies and gentlemen, that the existence of a common policy at least in the defence sector, at least in the armaments sector, would also greatly facilitate work and activity in the space sector. we know, ladies and gentlemen, that the greatest support for this sector comes from this very source of funding, in our most direct competitors.
mr president, i thank the commissioner for both the attention she has paid to this initiative and for her substantive comments, which confirm her intention to develop a strategy consistent with that already envisaged in the green paper on space policy and with the initiatives concerning the galileo joint undertaking. this motion for a resolution responds to a growing concern: we would not like to find ourselves, when we discuss the green paper in the light of the white paper - and therefore a more organic proposal from the commission - in a situation affected by the deep crisis in the european space chain, and in particular the new version of ariane. i would also like to say that the commission is very much aware of the problems facing the community in the field of the environment, and that it is not our intention - and i believe this is also one of the commission's concerns - that this deadlock on the galileo project should end up undermining a very ambitious project which has called for extraordinary readiness on the part of the whole european industrial system. we are convinced that space is a strategic sector for europe and that this choice, which has been made concrete by the establishment of the european space agency, must be confirmed and strengthened. the space industry is an asset that should not be squandered and, not surprisingly, in the recent action plan for strengthening research, it is also identified as one of the technological platforms to be considered in order to meet the competitiveness needs of the european economy. the space chain is in crisis today. it should be remembered, however, that although it had infinitely fewer resources than the parallel industry in the united states, it was able to gain a significant market share and to compete even in those fields in which it operated in parallel with the initiative of the united states, reducing europe's technological dependence on the united states in areas where there was a common industrial presence and also finding ways of cooperating positively with north american industry. we feel it necessary to confirm this presence, this initiative, and it seems to me that the commission's response - even if in a debate, as i said, incidental, that is, prompted by the concern that we are not facing a compromised situation, and awaiting a more organic and overall assessment - goes in the same direction. it must be recognised that the development of the space sector is very important for the realisation of the knowledge economy in practice; public resources and coordination of defence policies are essential; i think that private investment can add up, but only in some of the links in the value chain of the space industry. we hope that these reflections, which we agree with the commission, will be taken up by the council when it meets on 27 may for its decisions.
- ladies and gentlemen, before we discuss the manders report, we must vote on the request for the urgent procedure to be applied to the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european community and the republic of croatia on the system of ecopoints applicable to croatian transit traffic through austria. the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism has the floor.
mr president, i would first like to make a brief comment on the rules of procedure, on the application of rule 112, reminding this parliament that this is an absolutely extraordinary procedure. it is quite surprising that the council should have wished to use article 112 for a matter of this kind, which we could normally have dealt with in a matter of weeks without affecting the measure which, as is well known, has already been in force since 1 january. i would like to say to my colleagues that, whatever their position, the committee responsible for the subject, which met last night in an extraordinary session at the request of the council, did not reach the quorum required for the vote. the coordinators present were in fact perplexed about the use of article 112, precisely because - i repeat, mr president - it is, in my view, an extraordinary instrument. it is therefore quite unjustified that the urgency procedure should have been used - i repeat - for a dossier which is of no importance in terms of content.
- the next item is the report (a5-0145/2003) by mr manders, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on environmental liability with a view to the prevention and remedying of environmental damage (com (2002) 17 - c5-0088/2002 - 2002/0021 (cod)).
mr president, first of all i would like to express my sincere thanks - not by chance - for the enormous work done by both the rapporteur, mr manders, and by my colleague mrs niebler. i would like to make two comments: the first is of a particular nature, the second is of a general nature. the commission's proposal is also in line with some of the previous speeches. i understand that the agricultural world has welcomed the proposal for a directive on environmental liability, particularly because the commission has opted for a horizontal approach. in the course of the parliamentary work, other sensitivities have emerged in committee, so that it is very difficult at the moment to accept the idea of farmers being held responsible for environmental damage whose causes are to be sought outside their sphere of influence. in that regard, any extension of the scope of the directive - the obligation to provide a financial guarantee, the inversion of the burden of proof and, above all, the exclusion of certain exemption measures - would place farmers in a situation of great difficulty in the management of their business. in concrete terms, a farmer could be required to pay compensation for environmental damage caused by an activity for which he has been granted a permit, even though he has complied with all the legal provisions governing that activity. i am sure that farmers are prepared to take responsibility, but not when they have no influence on the cause of the damage. for this reason and in this spirit we have worked in the legal affairs committee, producing a guideline which avoids serious repercussions on the agricultural world and the rural environment in general. i hope that the rapporteur will agree with this position and that the european parliament will ratify it. as regards the general consideration, it also reflects a fear. the extension of the scope of the directive to the original commission proposal risks, in my view, rendering the proposed regulatory framework and the resulting insurance guarantees uncertain, thus making it difficult to apply an idea which is useful to european society at large.
mr president, the directive we are about to vote on can and must represent a breakthrough which will be clearly perceptible to all european citizens. from seveso to the infamous disasters of the doñana nature park, the sinking of the prestige oil tanker and the most recent, in chronological order, the discovery of the devastating effects on the health of unborn children caused by the environmental degradation of the chemical pole at priolo, all these are cases which require the adoption of a european civil liability regime for environmental damage. a strong political signal is needed, which can also be useful in stopping some of the regressive trends that are emerging here and there. mrs wallström, for example, is well aware that the italian government is about to embark on a revision of the penal code which, among other things, provides for the decriminalisation of environmental offences. all the more reason, therefore, for a system which strictly applies the 'polluter pays' principle and thus creates strong incentives to prevent and avoid such situations in the future. the ultimate aim is prevention, not compensation for damage. in the light of this objective, we have worked within the committee on the environment to remove certain dangerous derogations which allow for broad and generic means of defence and which, in reality, equate environmental authorizations with a kind of licence to pollute, with the serious risk of rendering the proposed regulatory system ineffective. we have worked to ensure that the responsible operator, not the taxpayer, bears the costs of environmental remediation. it is also necessary that all economic activities which may result in damage to the environment be taken into account and covered by the liability regime. such a system should, as a general rule, provide for objective liability for environmental damage, whether or not it is caused by an activity considered to be dangerous. this directive is of the utmost importance. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a long-awaited one and is a fundamental element of european environmental legislation, provided that the reinforcing amendments we have worked on with the 16 compromise amendments, which i warmly invite to be put to the vote and which restate the substance of what was voted on in the committee on the environment and then deleted by the committee on legal affairs, are accepted. if this is not the case, as mrs gebhardt has already said, and in particular if amendments nos 99, 103 and 107 are not adopted, our group will not be able to approve the manders report.
mr president, a framework regulation on environmental liability is necessary because it is right that the polluter should pay. however, this regulation must be balanced and also take into account the needs expressed by the european industry. the position taken by the committee on legal affairs, summed up in the report by mr manders, whom i thank for the important work he has done, is an acceptable compromise, even if it requires some sacrifices. some of the amendments now proposed are particularly dangerous, as they would make it impossible for operators to quantify insurance cover. the definition of environmental damage plays a central role in the structure of the directive, as does the definition of biodiversity and damage to biodiversity. in my view, amendments nos 23, 84 and 98 are not acceptable: if the event does not produce any negative effects, it is not harm but risk. amendment no 95 is also unacceptable, because it betrays the polluter-pays principle. the concept of liability is independent of the relationship of the law of the place of residence. the definition of contamination of soil by gmos is inappropriate, as it is part of a general definition which does not list the sources of contamination exhaustively. it is necessary to refer to proportional, not joint and several liability, which would create a regime based on suspicion. prevention must remain the priority objective of activities that may have an impact on the environment. finally, the financial guarantees: in order to allow the consolidation of the insurance market, maximum flexibility should be allowed beyond the first five years of application of the new legislation. in conclusion, i would ask my colleagues to support the compromise reached by the committee on legal affairs, which at the same time is a clear and strong signal in favour of protecting the environment but is not a penalty for european industry.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive on liability for environmental damage takes a balanced approach, putting pressure on operators to prevent pollution and to repair damage, and suggests only a few regulatory provisions to achieve these objectives. any fundamental change to this proposal for a directive would have led to an unworkable and impractical solution to an already complex issue, and i believe that the work done by mr manders and other colleagues in the committee is the best possible summary of this need. the committee on legal affairs did not change the substance of the commission's approach, but it did clarify some of its basic principles. the directive shall not have retroactive effect. exceptions based on compliance with a permit according to the state of knowledge must be maintained; if liability is compulsory, insurance need not be. the guiding principle of the directive is that the polluter must bear the cost of repairing the environmental damage caused by his action. awareness of the financial implications of such damage will lead to greater efforts to prevent it from occurring. the polluter pays principle therefore aims to regulate the issue of remediation and to encourage prevention. a mandatory financial security scheme could disrupt that relationship, as operators would have less incentive to prevent damage if they knew that their financial liabilities are covered by a policy, a tax or a fund. a compulsory financial security system could certainly be described as a 'pay-by-insurer' principle, with the risk of the transfer of responsibility from the operator to the person providing the financial security. we all have a social responsibility to protect the environment, which is by its nature a finite resource. operators must recognise that their activities may have repercussions and that they will have to compensate for any damage that is caused intentionally or through negligence. in these terms, the 'polluter pays' principle is acceptable. the reasoned approach of the committee on legal affairs will lead to a directive which will reflect the interests of both industrial development and the environment.
the rapporteur. mr president, the commission's communication on environmental agreements is part of the process of simplifying and improving the regulatory framework, which we all want. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of ionising radiation is a step in the right direction. the ultimate aim is to maintain legal certainty in the territory of the union by encouraging greater dynamism among economic and social actors. the environmental agreements are part of this. while i share the commission's approach of distinguishing between two types of agreement, and with the amendments i have subsequently made, i fully recognise the usefulness of such instruments as a complement to regulatory measures, to be used only in anticipation of environmental improvements of equal or greater scope than those achieved by traditional legislative procedures. the treaty contains no specific provision on environmental agreements. the use of these instruments must therefore be made in full compliance with and in conformity with all the provisions of the treaty and the community's international commitments. the backbone of community environmental policy is and remains the legislative provision, which can only be supplemented by voluntary agreements in certain specific cases. in drawing up the opinion we are about to vote on, and taking account of the debate on this subject and the positions adopted by parliament, i thought it appropriate to introduce some clarification and guarantee in order to make the instruments indicated in the communication acceptable and actually practicable. i refer in particular to the binding conditions which must be met in advance and which i shall briefly summarize: firstly, i have worked to make the concept of voluntary agreement more explicit as a means of integrating community legislation. secondly, i called for the definition, upstream, of the areas which could be the subject of voluntary agreements, through both co-regulatory and self-regulatory instruments. the use of such instruments should be based on a common framework of reference which indicates, at the preliminary stage, the intention to use voluntary agreements in that particular area. this intention should be reflected in the commission's annual programming documents, in a broader document such as a white paper or a thematic strategy; thirdly, i proposed that the criteria for evaluating the proper use of environmental agreements be developed. i believe that, in order to ensure the transparency and effectiveness of the voluntary instruments, it is necessary to define the conditions for their application and to verify the procedures for their implementation. as stated above, the objectives of the agreement, defined within a legislative framework of reference, must nevertheless be translated into obligations for the parties. failure to meet or achieve the objectives set will trigger the use of legislative mechanisms, either to supplement or to replace the agreement. in the final analysis, the distinction between co-regulation and self-regulation is appreciated here: in the first case, these instruments must be embedded in a binding legal framework, which gives the council and the european parliament the right to participate and adopt objectives, ensures public access and participation and includes effective monitoring and sanctioning mechanisms. in the second, the commission's role may be to stimulate or encourage by means of a recommendation, or to give recognition by means of an exchange of letters with the representatives of the sectors concerned. whatever the instrument chosen, parliament's power of scrutiny of the results achieved is not affected, nor is the use of typical legislative instruments at any time. on this basis, which the committee on the environment has improved and approved, we give the commission the go-ahead to start experimenting with this mix of legislation and voluntary commitments in the areas it has indicated, and in particular with pvc. we've enriched and rearranged the toolbox; now, let's make the most of them all!
mr president, mr minister, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, on 7 april we were discussing the sars emergency to contain the risk of its spread, which concerned all the member states, more or less, and not just them. i would like to stress that the proposals, which were presented by the uen group to the commission at that meeting, have been almost totally adopted by some member states, including italy. in that speech i had also reported on the transmission of the virus through goods and animals from infected countries which, at the time, were not yet a source of infection. after that difficult and controversial period of optimism versus pessimism about the possibility and need to contain the spread of the virus, the attention of european countries has now increased, prevention as well, but it is time to worry about another aspect: the problem that is emerging in many member states is the problem of social health, the problem of the availability of staff, means and facilities to assist the patient affected by sars. it is time to ask whether each member state has the above resources and centres suitable for the treatment of virulent infectious diseases such as sars; if that were not the case, all the measures taken to stop it from entering europe would be in vain. today, i would add, the problems to be tackled as a matter of priority are: the lack, or even the absence, of negative pressure isolation rooms in the main hospital centres of the member states of the european union, which are necessary to prevent hospital-acquired infection; the impossibility of keeping a highly suspicious patient in quarantine if he refused to be isolated, as there are no laws requiring his compulsory hospitalization except for mental illness; it is therefore appropriate to start thinking about training, the establishment of national health teams specialised in treating diseases such as sars, which cannot be treated with specific therapies but only with supportive therapies and which require the intervention of many specialists - pulmonologists, virologists, anaesthetists, resuscitationists, internists, dietitians - and nurses who are qualified to manage and care for patients with sars. i would like to invite you to consider this virus as the test bed for europe of the possibility of transmitting diseases that we do not know and have eradicated today, but which globalisation could bring back to europe, as i said in my speech of 14 november 2001. the european parliament and, in this particular case, the commission - to whom i am addressing myself - must learn from this experience to recognise public health as a priority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 7 may a commissioner who is not here today - and i regret that, because i would have liked to have had a commissioner once upon a time - said: in the prevention of animal diseases we have built a state-of-the-art system by creating a veterinary committee of experts which i quote is the law in each member state, while in the area of human health we have no say. i repeat, we have no say in the matter, but, incidentally, the commission has no say in the matter even in this house. this paradox, however, corresponds to a reality we are living in today. i agree with some of the points made earlier by mr mussa. but we must bear in mind that you, antonio, like many of us, are also calling for structural reforms, reforms of the health care system, of hospitals and even of science. structural reforms must first be voted on, wanted and then implemented. and then there's the bribe and everything. anyway, we need directions. today, however, there is an aspect which, as far as our area is concerned, is linked to commercial privileges which here sometimes have the function that in the communist states, in the totalitarian states, let us say communist states - there are some small fascist and nazi parentheses, but they are precisely parentheses - political and systemic interests have. we actually have a zoonotic situation that is rampant, looming: in other words, diseases can be transmitted from animals to humans. public health in europe - here at home - is facing serious and growing risks as the world becomes more globalised and as areas of high population density increase. now, and i quote, for several months now europe has been suffering from strains of orthomyxoviruses which are causing, i repeat, causing today, that is to say, mr president-in-office, are currently causing, very serious outbreaks of avian influenza. here in europe today, there are a number of very serious outbreaks of avian influenza, the danger of which is often downplayed. why would you do that? to avoid hindering the large food export flows; if we introduce vaccine prophylaxis, it will of course affect the export of these commodities. it was therefore preferable to apply stamping out, with the culling of entire farms: 25 million head destroyed in the netherlands and belgium alone! it is true that these heads cost us a dollar a day - money that we do not give to the world and not even to our unemployed, sometimes - but it is also true that the cuts are also subsidized. so we have a situation where we don't know much about the specific -- look, i, after some, or many, years, i'm not even sure about hiv in relation to aids -- let's just say that infectious disease experts fear, beyond the seasonal variation, an outbreak in the fall. remember that we killed 600,000 in italy, like a great world war, with the spanish alone. get your shit together! this is not europe, but the absence of europe!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, less than two months ago we heard about the spread of this disease and we are already at over 7,000 reported cases, more than 500 deaths and more than 20 individuals who are believed to be infected in the member states of the union. mr president, the extraordinary meeting of the council, requested by the italian minister for health, professor sirchia, has produced not minimal results, but minimal and unsatisfactory ones. what has been achieved is a proposal to introduce, within two months, medical offices at airports to check passengers departing for these countries, that is, those returning to china, hong kong and other areas where there is already a declared epidemic situation. the extraordinary council also decided to set up a european coordination centre for health emergencies, which is not due to come into operation until 2005. i believe that, despite the demands made by italy and spain, a purely economic logic has been adopted. you said yourself, mr minister, that a difficult climate would be created for the economy and society. we believe that the health of the citizens goes far beyond the purely short-term economic value, which is a matter to be borne in mind, of course, but which should not be given priority over the health of the citizens. mrs roth-behrendt has rightly said: 'we know nothing about this disease' - and that is the truth - but we have not implemented a european-scale filter that can be thought of in terms of uniformity and efficiency. mr pannella then recalled the paradox: we are equipped with a state-of-the-art system for the prevention of animal epidemics. for the man, nothing. it is still up to the states to prioritise economic aspects over the health of their citizens. it has been claimed that the spanish flu killed hundreds of thousands of people; no, my friends, it has caused more than 20 million deaths! and more recently, asia, in 1957, claimed a million lives, while hong kong, in 1968, claimed 700,000. i wonder what we are doing to monitor the risk of an epidemic situation that might occur in countries like those in africa or india, whose health systems would be absolutely unable to control it in the slightest, considering that they have already gone into crisis in toronto. i therefore believe, mr minister, that the council and the commission must change the register, the speed of decision-making and the policies relating to the health of citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all welcome our colleagues from the states which are no longer candidates but are not yet full members. we are glad to have them here, at the end of a journey which has been long and sometimes difficult, but which has fortunately fully achieved the desired result. the preliminary draft budget presented today by the commission is, of course, an atypical draft, since it is to be considered divided into two separate parts: the first, which will enter into force for the 15 current member states on 1 january 2004; the second, for the union of twenty-five, from 1 may 2004. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. firstly, the annual question of payment appropriations. at eur 100.6 billion, the volume of expenditure is only 3.3% higher than in the 2003 budget, which was exclusively for the europe of fifteen. this modest increase is explained by a reduction in the volume of expenditure, estimated at some 2% for the european union of 15. this all sounds absurd. not only does the commission not intend to make a definitive commitment to help resolve the situation of the lags, which has been one of the priorities of this parliament for years, but it is also presenting a proposal that lays the foundations for re-establishing the same situation with the countries that will join the union from 2004. there is also the situation in heading 3. the increase in the ceiling, which parliament has obtained, was an important achievement, which will allow us to finance some particularly sensitive policies with a sense of calm, but in my view it is still not enough. if we really want a political union, a direction for all the political forces in this house, towards which we are all striving, then we must also give it the means to work, that is, to provide it with the instruments to achieve our objectives.
- mr president, i would like to congratulate our colleague, mrs gill, on her excellent report; i fully share the essence of his vision and proposals for this intermediate phase of parliament's budget. i particularly congratulate her for having wanted to express very strongly her wish to see the use of new technologies intensified in our institution, as well as in the institutions in general, especially in the perspective of enlargement. in this connection, ladies and gentlemen, mrs gill, and my dear friends here, i strongly recommend that you adopt tomorrow the amendment on new technologies, which we tabled with the greens and mrs buitenweg and which was adopted by a narrow margin in committee. what is it? our institution respects the principle of public debate. and our grandstand is half full today. we are happy about that, because we feel less alone, but there are 150 people, maybe 200, whereas the enlarged europe will have 300 to 350 million inhabitants. we have the internet at our disposal, a wonderful tool not for information in the strict sense, not for advertising, but a working tool for those who are interested. today - we did not know it, mrs gill - parliament is broadcasting our plenary session via the internet. what are we asking for? we ask that you encourage the use of new technologies, and therefore the internet, to enable everyone to follow our plenary session from home if they wish. but why not our parliamentary committees too? some are interested in our debates on the environment. so they can follow them. it doesn't cost much. you have already wanted to set an amount for the 2004 budget. we are asking, by this amendment, that parliament may already this year carry out tests to determine the cost - which we believe is very low (other parliaments are already doing this) - of the broadcasting of committee meetings, not, i insist, of very important news events, but of the day-to-day practice of our work. because in universities, in other circles, there are always people interested in all our debates, whatever the topic. that is my recommendation for tomorrow and i congratulate mrs gill again on her report.
commission. – firstly, as regards drinking water in developing countries, the commission proposed in its communication on water management in developing countries that priority should be given to ensuring a supply to every human being – especially the poorest – of sufficient drinking water of good quality and of adequate means of waste disposal, with the general objective of reducing poverty and improving people's health and quality of life. this focus on access to safe water and sanitation was further reinforced in the context of the world summit on sustainable development with the launch of the eu water initiative and the signature of the eu-africa strategic partnership on water affairs and sanitation. after johannesburg we started to concentrate on a long-term effort to translate these political commitments into action on the ground and, for sewerage, action under the ground. we are engaged in a dialogue to anchor the process at country level. the core of this action is to catalyse and support the engagement of all partners at the local, national and regional levels, from central and local governments to civil society users and private professional actors, reflecting the multi-stakeholder partnership approach under the water initiative. a key objective is to focus on the millennium development goals and the targets for access to water and sanitation for the poor. we negotiated this in johannesburg and we are now trying to tackle the problem. the commission is also exploring the opportunities to increase financial support for these objectives, including the possible creation of a specific water fund using development aid as a catalyst to attract other financial resources in response to the countries' prioritisation of water in their poverty reduction and sustainable development strategies. this proposal by the commission is presented in the recent communication on the establishment of an eu water fund. secondly, concerning drinking water in industrialised countries, the european union started more than 20 years ago to take steps to secure drinking water quality. the drinking water directive of 1980 established quality standards for drinking water as well as regular monitoring obligations, thus ensuring a high level of protection throughout the union. in 1998 the drinking water directive was amended to check the parameters and related values and, where necessary, tighten them up and ensure greater transparency and more information to citizens. in order to comprehensively protect water resources, the european union has recently thoroughly restructured its water protection policy by adopting the water framework directive: protection of all waters, rivers, lakes, ground waters and coastal waters, establishing a binding obligation to achieve or maintain good quality for all those waters by 2015 at the latest; ensuring a broad participation of citizens, stake-holders, ngos when developing the necessary protection measures; and underpinning the environmental objective by economic instruments such as economic analysis and water pricing, reflecting cost recovery and thus promoting the wise use of water and the protection of our water resources. environmental policy in the field of water is complicated and supported by targeted efforts in research policy, where the sixth framework programme is devoting considerable effort and budget to the issue of water resources and their protection, and in regional policy both for the existing member states by instruments such as the structural and cohesion funds and in candidate countries by instruments like ispa and phare.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank commissioner nielson very much for his informative and detailed opinion. i think that the idea of setting up a water fund is very positive and very useful, and i believe that this way of doing things can help the developing countries in a very special way, because it is direct aid on the ground for concrete projects which give a future perspective to some very large areas of land. as regards the situation in the industrialized countries in the european union, i believe it is absolutely necessary to increase controls alongside this new framework directive on water protection, so that all the actors are not only brought together in the involvement of all the decision-makers and in the coordination of environmental policy, research policy and regional policy, as you have said, but also that performance is reviewed accordingly.
mr president, many have already spoken about the council's failure to respect and recognise the prerogatives of the european parliament as laid down in the treaty and to propose, for the regulation of the statute of the european cooperative society, a legal basis providing for the co-decision of the parliament. it is important to recall that, as far back as 1991, the council indicated this same legal basis for the three proposals for regulations it submitted at that time, respectively for the european cooperative, the european association and the european mutual society, as well as for the original proposal on the european joint stock company. in the light of these facts, the council's attitude is all the more incomprehensible, which is why i hope that after the vote in the house tomorrow it will reconsider its position. as the rapporteur has already explained, the purpose of this proposal for a regulation on the statutes of cooperative societies is to achieve harmonisation, legislative approximation, that is to say, to remove all the obstacles to the functioning of the internal market. it does not regulate matters relating to taxation and competition - which are also important and will have to be addressed in the future - copyright, insolvency, but it regulates the structure of companies, making systematic reference to the national law of the country where the cooperative society has its seat. that said, there is no disagreement on the importance and urgency of finding a solution for the creation of the cooperative society, given that this dossier has been stalled for decades and it was only in december 2000 that the council finally reached a political agreement on the substance and content of the regulation and directive on worker involvement, linked to the creation of the european cooperative society. in all these years - indeed decades - the world of cooperation in europe has grown considerably, has acquired economic weight and has also proved to play a fundamental social role, particularly in the field of employment. the european parliament has spoken out several times in recent years, in various reports, on the importance of the third sector in the economy, on the fundamental role it plays in maintaining the social context, on its capacity, which is supported by a great deal of research, to create jobs, and also quality employment. mr hughes recalled how an initiative launched by parliament had been successful and demonstrated the vitality and capacity of the third sector and the cooperative world in responding to the challenges of employment and social cohesion. with the proposed amendments, which i hope will be adopted tomorrow and taken into account by the commission and the council, the european parliament improves the proposal by introducing within the regulation the changes needed to harmonize the statute with the provisions of the directive on the involvement of workers. the rights of information and consultation are specified so that they are fully respected in the pre-legislative phase and in any structural changes and transformations. i would like to conclude, mr president, by congratulating the two rapporteurs on their joint work and their willingness to pursue these two important dossiers in parallel.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not know whether this is debate no 10, 15 or 25 in this parliament, in this institution, on the iraq case. i fear that this debate, like all others, once again underlines the irrelevance of our institutions; the commission has also taken the view that the measures taken by the member states to combat the illegal immigration of refugees and displaced persons are not appropriate. i am not sure, ladies and gentlemen, if europe will ever decide to have a common policy, not just in words but in deeds, because i do not see the prerequisites for that. i do not see the prerequisites for this because i have not understood from the council's statements what role europe intends to play as such. did you hear anything? i'm not going. apart from some hopes, which i think are obvious, i have seen nothing else, and i think it is appropriate, in all honesty, to say so. there is one important point, however, which the commissioner has made and with which i agree. it must be made clear once and for all that there are still great humanitarian needs in iraq, but we are not facing a humanitarian disaster. let us at least bear this in mind, because the problems are different, much more difficult than a humanitarian emergency which the commission knows very well how to handle. in this respect, if europe ever wants to find the means to say something and to have a policy, i agree with what mr barón crespo said. it is intolerable that in all the places of discussion, conferences, meetings, even on iraq, afghanistan, kosovo, east timor, there is no woman, not even to serve coffee or to interpret. this is not an islamic country, it's not about tradition; it's a secularized country, where women, for better or for worse - "mrs. anthrax" is an example for all - were the protagonists. i don't know if europe will ever have anything to say; if, after the big speeches, you have something to say, i would like you to keep this in mind and that we radicals are not obliged, as we have already done in afghanistan, to launch a worldwide campaign to get, perhaps, in the ignorance of all, two women ministers.
mr president, we cannot shirk our responsibilities. the war against iraq, built on the lie of weapons of mass destruction, the militarization of the united states, the doctrine of preventive and endless war, endangers the whole of humanity and forces us to live in fear of criminal terrorist acts and the pain that follows. we must not underestimate - this is our responsibility - that the imperial policy of the usa destroys not only life, land, history, culture, but the whole structure of human relations, the un charter and international rules. we can't just turn the page and pretend nothing happened. we must build and rebuild our relations with the usa, with the countries of the world, in respect for human and civil rights, in the pursuit of justice, in the rejection of double standards, as in the case of the israeli occupation of palestine. saddam is gone and i, along with the iraqis, can only rejoice, but the situation is unstable and the occupying forces must be replaced by an iraqi government with women in it and coordinated by the united nations. the european union is doing its part, promoting reconstruction and economic aid, restoring democracy and the use of iraqi resources. france, germany, belgium, the pope and the pacifist masses have given credibility to the european union and to europe in that part of the world. we must therefore continue along a path which is based on respect for rights, not on exploitation and unemployment.
mr president, the situation in iraq today presents the very difficult problem of defining how the transition process will be legitimized and guided after the end of the war towards what we all want, namely a free and democratic regime based on political, religious and ethnic pluralism. the draft resolution presented by the united states to the un on friday seems to reduce the role of the security council to a marginal one, to regulate oil exploitation in a rigid and a priori manner and, finally, to leave the anglo-american administration with uncertain and therefore predictably rather long terms. finally, it is said that the interim administration will be directed by the occupying powers, in concert with the iraqi people and a un coordinator. this is a somewhat generic formula, which seems to limit the role of the un mainly to the coordination of humanitarian aid, or little more. from europe comes a clear call for much greater involvement in the immediate future. the european union is geopolitically the neighbouring reality, so it would be absurd for it to remain outside such an important process for the future of this area. the strategy of the americans to link up with the talks with iran, which are aimed at avoiding the dangers of a destabilising role for the strong shiite presence, cannot be welcomed either. this ethno-religious reality must be assessed with extreme caution, but today europe cannot remain passive in the face of the terrifying scenarios that open the resumption of the terror strategy by al-qaeda. the stabilization of iraq, with interventions to ensure religious peace between the various ethnic groups, is seen as necessary in an area such as the gulf, where the islamic terrorism octopus is showing a very fearsome presence and penetration. this attack, which echoes the one in chechnya, brings the challenge of the international islamic fanaticism to the west to the fore. europe, beyond its differences with the united states on iraq, is therefore taking on all its responsibilities in countering the terrorist organisation which, as has now been amply demonstrated, is also finding sanctuary in the member states of the european union, in many mosques and islamic centres often financed by saudi arabia.
mr president, the success of the american operation in iraq and the speed with which the objective of liberating the country from saddam's dictatorship was achieved, with relatively few casualties, confirm what many thought, namely that war would be the least difficult part of this operation. the riyadh attack - which already arouses a perverse and unconcealed satisfaction in some people, including those in this house, because they feel entitled to say: 'we knew that attacking iraq would be useless' - confirms that the real war against terrorism is only just beginning. now begins the phase of rebuilding the country, destroyed and plundered, and of mending the alliances compromised by war. the european union must show, with the help of the ten countries we have just welcomed, that it is capable of being truly united. it is certainly exciting to know that on the streets of baghdad today, after this war that some still insist on considering useless, pamphlets, books and newspapers are freely sold that under saddam - as elsewhere under communism - could have led to imprisonment and torture. we shall be hearing from the president of poland, mr kwasniewski, in this chamber shortly. he is from a side which is not politically close to me, but he has shown himself to be a courageous leader, leading his country to support the intervention in iraq, and he has been criticised for this by those heads of state and government who have made a mistake in policy and who still find it difficult to admit their mistake. in his meeting last week with chirac and schröder, president kwasniewski asked not to force poland to choose between europe and the united states: you can be friends with both of them. let us try to be that in this parliament.
mr president-in-office of the council, we are discussing today for the first time an extradition agreement between the european union and the united states on which no european parliament, including the european parliament, has been consulted. i am therefore very grateful to you for being here, but i am also fully aware that our room for manoeuvre is practically non-existent, since, as you yourself have said, everything will probably be decided by 5 june. once again, on matters of the utmost importance to freedom and the rights of citizens, the negotiations are taking place, or rather have taken place, in the grayest opacity, and it is only after the fact that we have been able to discover the text. the council insists on rejecting any formal consultation of the european parliament. in times like these, when many people think that democracy and rights can be exported by means of illegal wars, this seems particularly worrying to us. we believe that this is a clear breach of the treaty, which makes us think about whether it is possible to bring an action before the court of justice for infringement of the prerogatives of the european parliament. i really hope that the majority in this parliament will be able to make such a request. we have many reasons for scepticism and concern about this agreement: the european parliament has been a key player in the fight against fraud, corruption and organised crime, and has been a key player in the fight against organised crime. we wonder, however, what is the logic behind rushing the conclusion of this agreement when we know that some european citizens are being held in guantánamo, as has already been said by other colleagues, in a completely illegal way, and that nothing is known about them. if the union and this parliament want to live up to their reputation as champions of rights, at least in words, we must act and send a delegation urgently to check on the conditions of those citizens before signing the agreement with the united states. it will be interesting, and perhaps even fun, to see if the united states will allow it. but today we would like to hear answers on the possible - or rather probable - contradictions between this agreement and the statute of the international criminal court, which you, mr president, unfortunately did not mention. we would like a clear answer to the following questions: is it true that the united states, actively supported by the united kingdom, opposes any reference in the agreement to the criminal court? what will happen if there is a conflict between the rome statute, and in particular the obligation to cooperate with the criminal court, and the extradition agreement with the united states? finally, given the unequivocal position of the european parliament against bilateral agreements guaranteeing impunity for us citizens, could you please tell us whether any current or future member states of the european union have been asked to sign these agreements? do you know of any such deal?
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, i will not repeat what has been rightly said about the intolerable situation regarding the so-called third pillar. in reality, this situation risks affecting many areas and giving, in particular to the candidate countries, an undemocratic image of the european union. we celebrated the advent of democratic europe in the parthenon. but now, at the first session, which is attended by a small number of our observers, we are obliged to shout out in outrage because you do not consult us on essential matters such as the one in question. i do not want to dwell on the subject, especially since i have very little time. i wanted to say, mr president, that you have not spoken much about the criminal court. i would also like to say to my colleagues that the extradition provisions of the rome statute must be taken into account. the surrender of the accused is not an extradition in the legal sense of the term. so not talking about it is not harmful in itself. of course, europe must reiterate its commitment to maintain and preserve the integrity of the statute, as well as the content of the declaration of 30 september 2002. in this declaration, it is recommended that any candidate country and any member state should not sign a bilateral agreement which would run counter to the principle on which the court is based, which has fortunately been in existence since 11 march and which i hope will soon be able to start work.
mr president, this agreement is very important, not only because of its usefulness in the fight against international crime but also because it is the first time that the union as such has negotiated an international agreement on this matter, which is binding on the member states and also prevails over bilateral agreements concluded by them. the rules and criteria adopted may therefore serve as useful standards for similar agreements with many other third countries and, for this reason too, should be carefully evaluated. the union is bound by the rules laid down in the treaties and in the acts adopted by its institutions. with regard to respect for fundamental rights, it is bound by the first and second paragraphs of article 6 of the treaty on european union and by the charter of fundamental rights, which provide for more stringent guarantees than those provided for in third countries and, in particular, in the united states. i also recall the european citizens still held in guantánamo. the reservation of non-cooperation in cases where the death penalty is provided for is explicit for extradition, but not as it should be for judicial assistance. this is a limit which is binding not only on the member states but also on the union as such, which has no power to conclude agreements which derogate from this principle. i therefore consider article 9 of the legal aid agreement to be insufficient. it is also paradoxical that the council should conclude agreements with third countries which it has not yet implemented within the union because of the failure of the member states to ratify the conventions they have signed or to implement the framework decisions already adopted. it is also paradoxical that, as provided for in article 10 of the agreement, the request for extradition from the third country may prevail over the request for surrender from a member state executing a european arrest warrant. we must therefore overcome these limitations, and the agreement can then serve as an example for the union's cooperation with third countries against international crime, while respecting the fundamental rights which the union recognises for all human beings.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr commissioner, i should like to begin by acknowledging to the commission that the communication on enlarged europe and relations with the new eastern and southern neighbours is timely and appropriate, not least because it offers the opportunity to structure the debate by avoiding improvisations and spontaneity which have the effect of raising expectations or frustrations in a situation which is extremely complex and constantly changing. there is no better time to build up hopes of new dimensions of enlargement than the one in which the integration of ten countries must be successfully completed and the effectiveness of the reforms to be brought about by the convention and the intergovernmental conference assessed. this does not mean, however, that the union should turn its back on itself. the commission was therefore right to coincide, even in time, the signing of the treaty of accession of the 10 new member states with a broader integration strategy involving countries and geographical areas to the east and south of the enlarged union. however, as the commission's communication argues, it is appropriate to avoid the misleading equation between a neighbouring country and a country never destined for membership of the european institutions, and, at the same time, to avoid that membership of the european institutions is the only instrument available for a policy of closer cooperation in the face of common problems and interests. in other words, a certain degree of autonomy must be established between this strategy and enlargement. that is why the first debate in the committee on foreign affairs and security has shown the need to provide a unified framework for a broad strategy, one that is also sufficiently concrete to propose policies for today, and not for an indefinite future which we cannot foresee at the moment but which we have the opportunity and the responsibility to prepare. the first ideas that emerged from the debate were as follows: to complete the geopolitical picture, including the countries of the caucasus; looking beyond the countries of the current partnership, including in the mediterranean dimension; the commissioner said that the eu should not exclude from this strategy countries already destined for membership, not to create confusion but because these countries will also need to interact with the areas on their borders. if the border is not just a land border, it is very important that, from now on, when the balkans join the union, for example, they can interact in a mediterranean dimension. this does not mean that we should flatten out or avoid differentiating instruments, from pre-accession agreements to the mediterranean partnership. the commission's proposal on the crossborder dimension should strengthen them. this strategy has its strength precisely because it sets common objectives for a geographical area which, because of its history, culture and contiguity, can be defined as a pan-european and mediterranean region: the european union is not a party to the conflict. and what can such a diverse area share? we insist, i would say to the commission and the council, on one concept: first of all, the policy. we want to share the values of democracy, the rule of law and freedom first and foremost, and to build new instruments and policies in this area. i therefore believe that parliament can and will contribute to this framework, and i am very pleased with the spirit of openness already shown by the presidency of the council and the commission.
mr president, one of the first consequences of enlargement is that it has brought countries which until yesterday seemed geographically distant closer to the union, and has thus brought the peoples closer together until they reach the 450 million inhabitants of the new enlarged union. the geographical, political and cultural upheavals which have affected the european continent and the mediterranean basin in the 20th century have certainly not helped to bring russia, the newly independent states and the countries of the southern mediterranean, now our neighbours, closer together in the recent past. they have lived through extremely different and tragic situations, and that is why it is even more important today to find common ground and effective cooperation between us and them. the newly reunited europe, with its 25 member states, must have as one of its first objectives the establishment of a special relationship with these neighbouring countries, whether in eastern europe such as russia or asia such as kazakhstan, or in the middle east bordering the mediterranean basin. the political europe which will emerge from the work of the convention and from the new institutional treaty which the igc will present to the peoples of the union will have the task not only of forging economic alliances, which can also help to improve the structures of communication, for a mutual exchange between citizens and businesses, but also and above all of promoting all those political, social, cultural and scientific initiatives which are likely to improve the participation of citizens in the growth of democratic and secular governments, in respect of all those national, cultural and religious traditions which in any case promote human dignity and defend its physical integrity. while this dialogue must proceed with equal intensity with all the countries neighbouring the union, we nevertheless consider that political action in the immediate future is a priority with regard to peace in the middle east and the economic rebalancing of the mediterranean basin. the full recognition of the state of israel and the right of its citizens to a life free from terrorism, as well as the right of the palestinian people to an autonomous and independent state which will guarantee the fight against all forms of terrorism and the control of the effective use of the funds allocated by the european union for the benefit of the palestinian people, the education of young people, the development of productive activities and the construction of homes and infrastructure, is a primary objective for us. another primary objective is to prevent the mass exodus from the poorer countries, which, by leading to uncontrolled immigration, impoverishes the countries of origin of immigrants and, on the other hand, weakens the structures of the host countries, which are unable to cope with massive and irregular immigration, especially when many members of criminal or terrorist associations, including those involved in drug trafficking, arms trafficking and, above all, human trafficking, infiltrate among immigrants seeking better living conditions. it is therefore clear that the union must make a political and economic commitment to the continued harmonious development of these countries, so that the people of these countries can find in their own territory not only the means of subsistence but also the means of social and cultural progress. only in this way will it be ensured that those who emigrate do so by reasoned choice and in accordance with the rules, not out of desperation and in a clandestine manner. mr president, we must also remind each of us of the need to urge all the european institutions to intensify, through appropriate agreements with the governments of neighbouring states, the relentless fight against paedophilia, sexual exploitation of women and children and any practice which violates the physical integrity of the person.
mr president, i would like to draw attention to a region on the edge of the continent, the caucasus, which the minister has already mentioned and which the rapporteur, mrs napoletano, has mentioned. europe is interested, and the caucasus has been a part of europe for many historical periods. armenia and georgia are among the oldest christian countries. in the middle ages, armenia was considered a great european power. at the end of the 19th century, no one could deny the role of baku, the capital of azerbaijan, as a powerful centre, including a european one, among the pioneers of the oil industry. today, among other things, azerbaijan is the main supplier of crude oil to the european union. after the first world war and before the collapse of the soviet union, local governments in the three countries, despite their differences, referred to european values. the versailles conference had given certain european powers the task of helping to bring about the birth of new democracies. the three republics took part in the pan-european conference in helsinki from 1972 to 1975 as part of the soviet delegation; all three are members of the council of europe. so it's not about strangers. the eu-south caucasus parliamentary cooperation committee has made several visits to these countries, and the solution suggested by the three governments to get out of the crisis has always been to get as close as possible to europe. even potentially very dangerous crises, such as in nagorno-karabakh, can hopefully be resolved within the european framework. for economic reasons, the united states and russia are present in the region. local governments, of course with different nuances, therefore have to make balancing exercises, and yet they would prefer a greater presence of another leading actor, such as the european union. our cooperation committee, for which i am the spokesman, was impressed by the basic feeling expressed by the three countries - armenia, georgia and azerbaijan - of being historically part of the european community.
mr president, at the last plenary session we voted in favour of one of the main challenges facing the european union: the accession of 10 new member states. but the challenges are not over. horizons are widening, borders are expanding and the arrival of new member states will further encourage the union to strengthen relations with its new neighbours, so that, in my view, in the coming years, the union's ability to guarantee its citizens security, stability and sustainable development cannot be separated from its willingness and ability to intensify and develop cooperation and dialogue with its new neighbours. in this regard, the wider europe initiative brings to our attention the european union's new neighbourhood policy, seeking to define a strategic framework for relations with the new neighbours over the next decade. among those countries which are now on the eve of de facto accession to the european union is poland, for which i am rapporteur. as such, i am particularly concerned about the important role that this large frontier country can play in developing neighbourly relations with countries such as ukraine, belarus and, above all, russia, as president kwasniewski has just mentioned today. finally, how can we fail to mention the southern mediterranean, which is of particular interest to a country like italy, whose territory almost entirely overlooks the mediterranean sea, thus forming a natural bridge of communication between the european union and the countries of the southern mediterranean? in conclusion, i hope that the council and the commission, together with the european parliament, and especially with the forthcoming italian presidency, will create the best geopolitical conditions for the completion of the project of a renewed europe, not only politically enlarged but also economically and socially enlarged, so that different countries with common interests can contribute to a solid unity, despite the diversity of their histories and experiences.
- mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i find the text we are about to vote on tomorrow on relations between the european union and russia frankly repugnant. mr oostlander spoke of his concerns about the democratization, or lack of it, in russia, but he did not say a word during his four-minute speech about chechnya. mr paasilinna, who, together with mr oostlander, is one of the main instigators of this resolution, also does not speak about it. we are even entitled to praise the russian military forces as peacekeepers in this resolution. the russian peacekeeping forces, in chechnya or elsewhere - in afghanistan a few years ago, for example - are up to you to judge! for once at least the council has spoken to us a little about chechnya, but i think the council is telling itself stories, i would even say that it is lying to itself. but at the same time he is lying to us and telling us stories, because the question is not the one the president-in-office of the council has put to us. the political solution proposed by mr putin is not a political solution, it is an encouragement to two forms of terrorism: the daily terrorism carried out by the russian forces in chechnya and the action of terrorist gangs, secretly aided by the same russian military forces, which now occupy the whole ground and which no longer leave any chance for the political solution advocated by the council. we have done everything, europe has done everything to isolate mr maskadov, who was elected by the chechen people in elections legitimized by the osce. the european union has done everything possible to prevent the ministers of mr maskadov's government from travelling around europe, from meeting the political authorities of the various countries of the european union. it has done everything to destroy any possibility of real negotiations between the chechens and the russian authorities. today we have a species of quisling that rules grozny and its surroundings and obeys moscow. from time to time he rebels and makes a report, which you have not mentioned, mr president-in-office, in which he speaks of the daily terror policy of the russian authorities in chechnya. this is the reality of today. without president maskadov there will be no possible peace, there will be no possible political solution in chechnya. without a clear message to president putin to start negotiations, there will be no solution in chechnya. mr putin said in the financial times some ten months ago that the problem facing russia is not the final status of chechnya, but a security problem. the foreign minister of mr maskadov's government proposed a united nations interim administration of chechnya, precisely to reassure the russian authorities and to establish within five or ten years a chechen state administration which would be a guarantee against threats to russian security. you do not want to see the chechen foreign minister, who can no longer travel to europe, and to whom you refuse a visa, just as you refuse visas to other members of mr maskadov's government. it's the opposite of what you should be doing, and yet, that's what you keep doing. this is what prevents the circle of terror from breaking, which grows every day, as mr belder and mrs schroedter said, of young chechens in despair, young people who have seen their parents, brothers, cousins killed in grozny or other towns in chechnya, kidnapped, raped by russian forces. by doing so, you are pushing them into the arms of extremists who are funded by a few lunatics elsewhere in the world. it is urgent that we change our attitude or you will agree to drink blood, not champagne, at the next summit in st petersburg.
the commission (es) mr president, i would like to begin by thanking mr garcía-margallo y marfil for his report and all the members of parliament for their active cooperation in the preparation of it. it is true that we are launching, for the first time, a new exercise in relation to previous situations. the commission's recommendations on the broad economic policy guidelines, which for the first time cover a three-year period, are based on what the brussels european council of 2003 defined as the main lines and, for the first time also, as mr garcía-margallo and mr ivory have stressed, are presented at the same time as the broad employment guidelines. these broad economic policy guidelines introduce, for the first time, certain variations which we consider to be fundamental. we've drastically reduced the overall share. we think it is time to focus our priorities better. we have defined the specific guidelines for each country in a more concrete and orderly way and, for the first time, we have also made specific reference to the euro area. the economic strategy contained in the economic policy guidelines is, of course, based primarily on lisbon. in the report by mr garcía-margallo y marfil there is a certain criticism, he says, of the lack of ambition in the broad guidelines. i think that criticism is unwarranted. the broad guidelines are a good way of translating the lisbon decisions into our commitments, and it is true that we want to set out obligations in a much more concrete way, so that they can be better assessed. i agree with him and will come back to his idea of a specific plan of action, but the fundamental problem is not to make new plans but to put into practice what has been agreed. from our point of view - and this is a fundamental point which mr garcía-margallo y marfil has stressed - we must also take account of the time in which we find ourselves: cyclical conditions, which are not the easiest. but i also agree that it is not because we are in a difficult time that we have to abandon the fundamental elements of our strategy. our strategy is based on three fundamental ideas: sound macroeconomic policies, structural reforms and sustainability of processes. in sound macroeconomic policies, i think we agree that budgetary balance is fundamental and i also share your view of the particular importance of not repeating the mistakes we have made in the past, with procyclical policy behaviour, which can ultimately create problems in the future. that was one of the concerns of the commission in its communication last november, when we stressed the need to use the stability and growth pact not only in the bad times of the cycle but also in the good times, which is, in the end, essential to avoid future difficulties. in the end, what we want is to let the automatic stabilizers play and have a correct policy. as regards growth potential, i think we fully share the view that the necessary structural reforms, which are essential to make the union's economy more resilient to external shocks, must be put in place, but these reforms must be comprehensive and applied jointly if they are to be effective. we share the need to increase employment. the fundamental question we are faced with, however, is whether we should put in place specific incentives for employment or rather devise a general economic policy, which takes employment as its objective, and this seems to us to be the best option. the honourable member said that one of his concerns was to put in place an action plan for structural reform. the honourable member raises two problems: why we do not have a list of structural reforms, and why, in that list of structural reforms, mechanisms are not put in place to enable us to monitor them more efficiently. i think the list of structural reforms is included in lisbon, we look at where we are in the synthesis reports every year, and it is true that it is up to the member states to put them into practice. the establishment of a new supplementary plan would not solve the problems. we believe that the plans already exist, what needs to be done we know. i think the key is how we put these plans into action. we therefore believe that two fundamental aspects must be considered. firstly, the reports which the commission publishes each year on the implementation of the broad economic policy guidelines. the idea behind the move from one year to three years is to pay more attention to implementation and less to the definition of annual principles. secondly, and this is where we come to an important aspect of economic policy coordination, to pay more attention to the system of peer pressure that we have established in the union. the honourable member raises an important question: is it enough, yes or no? i think it is enough if there is a political commitment from the member states to implement what we have decided together. we must not forget that the model of economic policy coordination is a coordination of national economic policy, based on a community system which allows us only to act under peer pressure, with the exception of the recommendations which help us to highlight certain elements of non-compliance and, of course, the stability pact. as regards strengthening sustainability, it is only worth highlighting the importance of public debt, to which we pay particular attention, because i agree with the honourable member that action is needed on this point, and the idea of offsetting future liabilities with current assets to cope with these difficulties, which seems to us to be a fundamental idea. we also consider that everything that involves a greater and better use of natural resources is essential, and in this sense any element of sectoral subsidies, which ultimately leads to a less environmentally efficient system, must be considered, just as sustainability and social cohesion must be considered as objectives of economic policy. in conclusion, and also briefly referring to another proposal in your draft for a lisbon implementation plan, i think we share your concern in this respect. the commission has clearly expressed its concern about the lack of implementation of lisbon. it is certainly behind schedule, but i do not think that the solution is to go back to drawing up new plans. i think the solution is to move more quickly on what we have already decided. the political will is essential here and, in this sense too, parliament's support and the positions adopted by it will be crucial for the implementation of all these elements.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mr garcía-margallo's report, which i consider to be an important contribution to the definition of effective coordination of the economic and social policies of the union, also brings into sharp focus the limitations which have characterized the formulation of the broad economic and social policy guidelines in recent years: on the one hand, there has been too long a lack of willingness to define a proactive policy capable of countering the stagnation and recession trends still prevailing in many of the union's economies; on the other hand, the principle of streamlining and coordinating employment policies with the broad economic policy guidelines has been recognised, at least belatedly. in addition, the objective of implementing the strategy defined in lisbon in 2000 by 2010 with the structural reforms resulting from it has been taken up, perhaps still vaguely. we should not underestimate this progress, but we must stress that we must now overcome delays and ambiguities by providing for effective coordination between the economic, employment and environmental policies of the member states through the definition of a real timetable setting intermediate milestones for the achievement, by 2010, of the objectives set in lisbon and gothenburg, in particular as regards public investment in the fields of research, education, lifelong learning and participation in a european network of basic services, starting with transport and telecommunications. it is also necessary to set up an institutional coordination structure in the euro area which will allow, as stated in the report by mr garcía-margallo, a single representation of the euro area in all the economic and financial institutions operating on a world scale. finally, the stages of an economic, social and environmental policy compatible with the lisbon strategy and the flexible management of the stability and growth pact should also be defined for the euro area. these choices should become, from 2004, the core of the broad economic policy guidelines and the new objectives with which to enrich the flexible management of the stability and growth pact. in this connection, i would like to emphasize that it is necessary to dispense with generic formulations and many ambiguities: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the financial interests of the european communities against fraud is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. in short, the commission cannot be indifferent to the fact that a deviation from the 3% or the minimum 60% target for public debt is due to an increase in current expenditure, or perhaps to a general reduction in taxes, or to a policy of boosting public and private investment - for example in research, training and retraining for older workers who choose to prolong their working life - especially if these investments are formally recognised by the commission itself as objectives of common interest. the same priorities should be pursued, as commissioner solbes has said, also in periods of growth, when the conditions are created for greater compatibility between the broad guidelines of economic and employment policy and the parameters set out in the stability pact, which is also - the central bank itself must not forget this - a pact for income and employment growth and, after lisbon, for full employment and social cohesion.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, in introducing this report on gope, the rapporteur said that he was satisfied with the broad, almost unanimous consensus that has been achieved within the commission and, i imagine, within parliament. i understand that, but i think that's a limitation of the work we do and, in the end, one of the limitations of the gope as such. it is easy to share the lisbon objectives, but it is difficult to agree on the instruments. mr president, if you and mr trentin were sitting in a national parliament, it would be difficult for you to agree on the choices to be made, the positions to be taken. i believe that this - but we now know it is structural - is the limit of these broad guidelines and open coordination policies, above all because, in my view, we should have the courage to go deeper into certain issues, choosing instead of looking for the lowest common denominator between different positions within parliament and between different countries, and going to the root of the issues. i would like to point out three elements which i believe are not sufficiently present in the gope and in the report: the first is social security. it must be clear - and it must be said loudly, very loudly - that europe is preparing a future of generations of poor pensioners and that it is doing so because it does not want to, does not have the strength or the courage to impose certain choices on those who have an interest in the welfare systems not changing in the time required. we have systems that are not financially sustainable, that are unfair to younger or future generations, and yet we find no political strength to change. this too would be a matter for debate in parliament. we have seen the strike in austria, we have seen it in france, we will see it soon in italy. the status quo lobby of those who defend the interests of those who do not want any change in pensions is a strong lobby, and it is at work. i believe that the documents and statements of the european parliament must also make a strong appeal to protect the interests of all, and especially the youngest. in his otherwise excellent report, mr garcía-margallo refers to the social dialogue. i believe that on an issue such as pensions, social debate and, if necessary, political confrontation are desirable. the dialogue on pensions with those who fill the squares in vienna, paris or rome, exploiting people's fear with demagogic proposals, when they know that something is being done, is a sterile dialogue, a dialogue that can lead nowhere. another point: the question of immigration. although i am aware of an amendment, which i hope will not be voted on by the people, i hope that the report will continue to stress the importance of immigrants and immigration in giving dynamism and flexibility to the european economy, at a time when, with enlargement, some large countries are calling for the free movement of workers to be postponed until 2011. this would be an important factor in the dynamism of the european economy and must be maintained. i would like to conclude on one last point, mr president: the lisbon objectives are to make the european economy the strongest knowledge-based economy. well, let us ask ourselves how this will be possible in countries, such as those in europe, which reject the technological frontier of gmos and stem cells.
- mr onesta, i think that a copy of your speech should be sent to the president of the convention, mr giscard d'estaing. i do not share the view you expressed in the second part of your speech about the regularity of the votes we are going to take.
- the agenda calls for a vote. there is a problem with the report by mr schmitt, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the prevention of money laundering through customs cooperation. i propose that you deal with it without debate and put it to the vote at a later date, in accordance with rule 111 (2).
- mr. schmitt wishes to speak to explain his reasons.
- the assembly will decide. (parliament decided to postpone the vote) the debate on postal services will begin at 3 p.m.
- the house has already decided, mr. posselt. i do not think that a decision by the house would set a dangerous precedent. that seems perfectly normal to me.
mr president, mr van den berg has presented a very competent and well-informed report on the commission's proposal on education and training to reduce poverty in developing countries. i could not help but vote in favour of education and poverty reduction in developing countries. i would point out to the president and to the house - which is so large, as always, in my explanations of vote - that there are poor countries with some rich people and rich countries with some poor people. i would like europe to look in particular at the poor people in the poor countries and the poor people in the rich countries, because everyone has a right to help, and in particular to control where the money that is given to them goes. but above all i would like it to be known that the associations of retired teachers throughout europe are ready to give their disinterested and free contribution to educate, to teach what they have learned in a working life to all those in the developing states who wish to learn to improve the wealth of their states.
- this concludes voting time. i have received from the conference of presidents the list of observers appointed to the parliamentary committees. the list of names will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting. (the sitting was suspended at 12.40 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, too many people have died in this conflict, slaughtered by fratricidal war and poverty: three and a half million people, two and a half of them displaced, sexual violence, summary executions, forced recruitment into the army and military gangs of children and girls. these deaths and destruction weigh like boulders on our consciences too. we cannot but feel responsible for the forgetfulness, the indifference, the interests of our multinational corporations greedy for the resources of this great country, for the colonial legacy, for the international and indigenous responsibilities which, in reality, are mixed and make everyone guilty. action is needed. the peace agreements are undermined, with various responsibilities of the different parties to the conflict, in particular for the failure of the withdrawal of troops from the different countries. a massacre like the one that took place on 3 april and claimed hundreds of lives must never happen again. kofi annan reminds us that those who commit criminal acts will have to answer to the international community. we must therefore intensify our efforts, including our own, to establish an international criminal court to try these crimes. i believe that the call by various social forces and movements for a stronger monuc presence must be supported and given effect. it must fulfil its mandate by acting concretely, by intervening on the ground, so that the massacres are not repeated and the security of the population is guaranteed and that what happened in ituri does not happen again, where monuc, although warned of a possible risk of massacre, did not act or could not act. i believe that we need the courage and honesty of a common policy which denies support for regimes which promote war and investigates the complaints, which appeared in the un report, concerning multinational and european companies which illegally exploit the congolese riches. this report documents both the illegal financing of the militia and the illegal exploitation of gold, diamonds, oil and coltan. it is no coincidence that uganda exports so much gold, which is beyond the country's mining capacity, and diamonds, which are not mined. i really think that we must do everything we can to bring peace and development to uganda. the people need it. we must therefore embark on a much more rigorous and clearer policy.
mr president, the suffering, the sacrifices and the dignity of the vietnamese people in winning sovereignty and independence from colonialism and the us military intervention, which, with chemical and bacteriological weapons, destroyed life and nature for years to come, do not deserve a government that maintains repression and prevents freedom of expression and demonstration. of course, steps have been taken towards democratic openness, both politically and economically: the trade agreement with the united states, the release of prisoners, the holding of free elections, the internet. but under this facade of renewal lies a tragic reality: the 20 000 prisoners released were common criminals, while the political prisoners are still in prison; the use of the internet, as other colleagues have pointed out, is in fact a means of control, and the use of satellites is prohibited. freedom of religion, formally sanctioned for both buddhists and montagnards, is in fact far from being practiced: the european union has been a major player in the fight against terrorism, and has been a major player in the fight against terrorism. but repression doesn't just affect religious people: in the name of national security, as we all know, the rule of law is being violated. in our joint resolution we call on the european union to continue its work and to put pressure on the vietnamese government to continue the dialogue with the religious forces, to put an end to all repression, to release the detainees and to work for the concrete development of political and humanitarian organisations and ngos.
- mr president, the situation in vietnam is not good. colleagues thomas mann, paulo casaca and others have spoken extensively about it. the situation is extremely difficult, human rights are not respected, nor are religious rights. there is still much to be done in the way of reform in vietnam. but, as is not customary, i would like to welcome two extremely positive developments. first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleagues, in particular the chairman of the delegation for the countries of south-east asia, mr nassauer, mr corbett and all the other colleagues, also mrs mckenna, who have taken part in the drafting of this text, because it is an extremely good text, a text which does not give any lessons, but which highlights a number of violations of fundamental rights, a series of cases very specifically: the case of the venerable patriarch thich huyen quang, the head of the unified buddhist church, of thich quang do, the number 2 of that church, of father li, of mr dan nguyen, of colonel que pong du and of many other specific cases of dissidents who are victims of their convictions and ideas. thank you to all of these colleagues. i also thank you for this small gesture, this light that was lit a few weeks ago in vietnam when the prime minister, mr van khai, met the patriarch of the unified buddhist church, thich huyen quang. it's a first. since 1981, there had never been such a meeting. the prime minister addressed the patriarch, not as "comrade", but as "venerable". their interview was broadcast on vietnamese television. this is a first and a very positive sign. i would also like to thank someone who is not with us today, namely commissioner patten, because it is his determined action, as well as that of the commission delegate in hanoi and a number of european embassies, but also the united states, that has made this small gesture, which is going in the right direction, possible. i think this is an extremely important element. of course, we will have to be extremely vigilant, which is why this resolution is so important. we will have to check in particular whether, on 1 june, the number two of the unified buddhist church, thich quang do, will be released, as he should be under the terms of his sentence. we will have to check day by day whether concrete reforms are being implemented in vietnam. but there's this little light that came on. it is an invitation to dialogue. i think we must respond to this invitation to dialogue by the vietnamese authorities with another gesture of dialogue. finally, i would like to thank those who provide us with information every day, the vietnamese committees for human rights, and in particular the que me committee, which has been fighting every day for 30 years to inform us. i would like to thank its president, mr vo von ai, and its vice-president, mrs penelope faulkner. it is thanks to them that we have been able to make these texts so precise, so demanding, and that we can maintain dialogue with our vietnamese friends.
mr president, as you know, the convention will conclude its work on 14 june, a summit will be held in thessaloniki on 20 june, and we will very appropriately have a mini-night in the week between the two events, on 18 and 19 june to be precise. my group therefore felt it important to have a preliminary discussion on the outcome of the convention, possibly inviting president valéry giscard d'estaing. i would like to stress what my colleague mr barón crespo has said, but this does not of course diminish the opportunity for a more careful assessment to be made after the thessaloniki summit and in accordance with the procedure which parliament will decide. in view of the public nature of the convention, it seems politically appropriate that we should discuss it, if not first, at least in a public and open manner, possibly in the presence of the president, but also without the president if he is not available.
mr president, i sincerely believe that the european parliament has the duty to be the first to discuss this matter publicly. unfortunately, politics has its quirks, and so it does not seem very wise to put this proposal to the vote now, as it would certainly be rejected. we shall therefore await all the various very important decisions which will be taken within the socialist group; we shall then see if we can persuade the socialists to open the debate with - but also without - president giscard d'estaing. i would like to reiterate that it is not so much a question of deciding what our position is on the convention as it is a question of proceeding, before the governments do so, to a first assessment of the outcome of the convention once it has finished its work. it seems to me that this is the least that can be done politically, even for public opinion. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, on wednesday 21 may i was sent as a delegate of the european parliament to the united nations in new york to speak at the permanent forum of the world's indigenous peoples, which meets once a year at the un headquarters. i naturally conveyed the european parliament's greeting and stressed the attention we have paid over the last three years to all the indigenous and native peoples of the united states of america, canada, latin america, africa, oceania and so on, and all the representatives of the world's indigenous peoples have asked me to let the european parliament know that they expect a strong voice in their favour and concrete help to respect their human rights; but above all they expect europe to make its voice heard and not just be heard by the united nations, when we all know that europe in the past was responsible for the situations they are suffering from today. i hope that you, mr president, will listen to me personally when i report to the european parliament the demands of these people.
- mr president, at the european union-russia summit in st petersburg, we witnessed a festival of absolutely unacceptable statements by the council, but above all by the commission. indeed, at that summit mr prodi drowned the chechen question in vodka and caviar. these are positions which are completely opposed to those of our european parliament. i am surprised - and i am addressing the group chairmen and, of course, you too, mr president - that neither at this part-session nor at the brussels mini-session the question of a report by president prodi and the council on chechnya, and more broadly on relations between the european union and russia, is on the agenda.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, the question of the statute for members has been on the agenda of this parliament for many years now, and like other members i doubt that, despite the vote tomorrow, we will be able to reach a final result - but i hope, of course, that we will under your presidency, mr cox. we radicals have always argued and continue to argue that the statute of members should go beyond what mr rothley sees, namely not only the administrative, bureaucratic status of an assimilated european official, as mr maccormick put it, but also and above all the prerogatives of the european member. it is intolerable, for example, that after 25 years of direct elections, meps are still forced to make the decision on where to meet; it is intolerable that they do not yet enjoy prerogatives comparable to those of national parliamentarians, for example the right to visit prisons, or other prerogatives connected with the elective mandate of representing the peoples of europe. i hope that the rothley report will provide the basis for a broader reflection, in the run-up to the european convention, on the need for the european parliament of the europe of 25 to enjoy not only an administrative status but also prerogatives which make him a true elected representative of the peoples of europe.
mr president, a committee chairman can only feel great satisfaction in seeing colleagues congratulate each other, like mr rothley and mr lehne, on work done under my direction. i'm really satisfied because it's a job that's been years in the making; in fact, when i took over the presidency, i also found that there were differences, and it was only through discussion that they were overcome. as the speeches show, we worked in harmony, well aware of two important things: on the one hand, our willingness to accompany the constituent process which will shape a parliament, its rights, its duties and its prerogatives; on the other hand, the fact that the provisions of the treaty are old and obsolete, as mr rothley has well explained, because they were adopted in the 1960s, when parliament was only a consultative assembly. the draft by mr rothley, which we are about to approve, is intended to regulate a new legal situation for the european parliament and the conditions for the exercise of its mandate; it is really - and i want to stress this - about the statute of a real parliament, which does not concern only the economic situation and, if i may say so, the pay situation, which was quite marginal and on which the debate in committee had been grounded, but also the structural and statutory problem relating to the function, role, characteristics or mandate that parliament must have. i am pleased to quote an important point from a report from 1986 which was presented by mr georges donnès, a great liberal. fifteen years ago this report already stressed that the european parliament was an institution called upon to play an essential role in the functioning of the community and in the procedure for drawing up community acts, and that it was therefore not possible to oppose the changes deemed necessary to the community institutions. even then, the belief was that there must be some demand for change. as regards the possibility of an effective equality of immunity between all members of parliament, the author of the report wondered whether it would not be possible to identify a position of effective autonomy and real immunity of the european parliamentarian as such, as long as the current distinction provided for in article 10 of the protocol, which we are now proposing to amend, was not retained. the report i have just quoted shows that such an equation is not only necessary to avoid the negative psychological effects which would result from the existence of first-class and second-class members of parliament, but also because it sees a dream, a programme, come to fruition after a long lapse of 16 years: the independence of parliamentary institutions from other powers through the protection of individual members. this protection concerns the work we do and the image we want to give to europe of a member who, after so many years, especially after this parliamentary term, through and under his presidency, has achieved a firm point from which enlargement will also be able to benefit from the effective role that a member of parliament must have.
mr president, without wishing to detract from the great work done by my colleagues, this is a subject on which there is no end to analysis and reflection. i should like to dwell briefly on the electricity market. the european scenario shows structural differences which, in my view, are difficult to overcome by merely starting the process of liberalization. with reference to the european context, the electricity market has been concerned with linking markets, but not with creating uniform conditions regarding access to generation, institutional set-ups and fuel choice symmetries, etc., such as to create symmetrical competitive conditions in the generation segment. cross-border regulation through market mechanisms - for example, through outright auctions - in countries which are handicapped by domestic production conditions, undermines the economic advantage for final consumers which is derived from the availability of imported energy. in view of the cost differentials and congestion resulting from a demand for imported energy which is significantly higher than the supply, the ultimate effect will be to bring the external and internal price closer together. the nuclear issue is a further complication of this situation, which would create the particular situation of those who are called upon to contribute to the cost of decommissioning other countries when in reality they are not able to benefit, given the market mechanism provided for by the cross-border, from the energy produced by nuclear plants. while we believe that the proposed rent efficiency mechanisms for cross-border are acceptable in the long run, we believe that their application in the short term is highly detrimental. the package of directives is therefore acceptable and could only be agreed if it were to be achieved through a gradual application of market mechanisms, because cross-border regulation cannot produce the same positive effects for the final consumers of the member states in the presence of discrepancies in trade flows.
commissioner, we thank you for the two political points you have recalled. the report by mr piétrasanta on the meda programme is one which has been widely shared and built up together: we really have a unity of purpose. the two political points on which you based your speech were, on the one hand, the importance of the mediterranean as a frontier for europe, but also as an area on which a large area of our union's foreign policy is being built, and, on the other hand, the fact that you mentioned that the commission, in the transition from meda 1 to meda 2, has certainly given much more substance and timeliness to its interventions. in fact, in our meetings with the southern shore of the mediterranean, we are constantly reminded of the need for different bureaucratic timetables. and from this point of view we note that the commission is making a considerable effort. i shall not, of course, repeat the list of points which have already been raised by the rapporteur. i should like to focus on a number of policy needs that accompany the programme of measures. we certainly need to identify new social action programmes, especially the need to work on the protection of the handicapped, as well as on new forms of cooperation in the field of child protection. in the context of the situations which you, commissioner, have brought to your attention, we would like to draw your attention to the need, for reasons of foreign policy and the role of the european union, to insist on the conclusion of the syrian/eu negotiations in order to complete the network of euro-mediterranean association agreements, just as we must proceed as soon as possible with the selection of the draft financial planning programmes currently pending between israel and palestine, since they could play a very important role in this area of the mediterranean. i 'll close with an accent: we need a parliamentary assembly, because this is the political place where many of the processes under way could probably find a solution.
mr president, i admit that i have little confidence in the usefulness of this type of document and i believe that the situation that is being created with regard to the lisbon objectives should make us think. it is easy to agree on the idea of reducing unemployment substantially by 2010: i challenge you to find a single european citizen - right, left, centre - who would vote against such an idea. it's easy to agree that policies should help halve poverty, but if we wanted to, we could write "abolish poverty" by 2010. i think it is too easy to agree on such objectives. the difficulty arises and is a difficulty that is not addressed in defining choices, in making decisions or in asking for precise decisions to be made. as already noted, employment is growing, as shown by a number of completely agreeable indicators on the quality of employment, equal rights between men and women, work, etc. if the economy is growing. for the labour market and labour market policies to foster economic and employment growth in europe, massive injections of flexibility and liberalisation of labour and employment services are needed. as regards the tax burden, the contribution burden for social security schemes must be taken into account. young workers - germans, italians and europeans in general - pay with unemployment the excessively generous pensions for workers who retire too early.
mr president, commissioner, i also thank the commission for its proposals for guidelines and for the words of the commissioner. i also thank the rapporteur because i think he has tried in a short time to take account of all the sensitivities in this parliament, without, however, sacrificing quality objectives. i should like to focus on a few points. if we take account of the economic situation and the experience gained in recent years on the european employment strategy, it seems to me that the commission, already in its proposals, has tried to define selected objectives, which i consider particularly significant because they are consistent with the recommendations made by the commission itself on the basis of the evaluation of the national employment plans. i think that this strategy is therefore becoming more and more specialised. of course, for the community institutions to be able to promote this specialization, a more convinced adherence of many member states would be required. i would like to mention a few points. the commission, the rapporteur and the committee on employment have highlighted certain aspects of the commission's communication: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens at work is a good example of the need to invest in quality and services to make women's employment possible. this is possible through training of women and the services needed to make the environment favourable to female employment. the amendments adopted in committee are in that direction. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. i think these are real goals. this is a point on which we all agree, but it is hardly compatible with a general tax cut, because the alternative is either investment resources or tax cuts.
mr president, i also take the time of my colleagues andria and mantovani who have asked me to express their regret that they are being detained in italy because of strikes or other serious issues of this kind. i shall also briefly summarise their thinking, hoping to be able to match it. the commitment of the european ruling class, and in particular of the european parliament, is to rewrite the model of the social market economy, to update it, to rethink it without reducing its social commitment. job security is no longer to be sought in the assertion of acquired rights but in knowledge, commitment and continuing training. the european parliament must make pay flexibility - which has always been supported, at least in theory, but often neglected in practice - a real objective of the european parliament, which must clearly and decisively indicate the path to be followed to achieve it. this commitment to reform must be supported above all by the active parties, that is, by all the social components who must make serious commitments in favour of training, innovation and flexibility, without, however, denying them later on when they are implemented. the comparison of contractual structures should strengthen the level of the firm but also flexible pay; a strengthened company level is the framework in which productivity is created and individual contribution is assessed. it is clear that in order to achieve these objectives, national bargaining must be accompanied by bargaining at company level. but, as has already been said, the main thing to do to ensure employment is to boost investment, which is a real steering wheel, especially in future initiatives aimed at the ceecs. joint ventures are another element in the recovery of small and mediumsized enterprises, which, let us not forget, provide more than 90% of employment at european level. in applying flexibility, care must be taken to ensure that it does not become a convenient tool for some companies which look to this solution to create atypical jobs, such as coordinated and continuous cooperation contracts, which, however, do not represent a certain future, especially for young people. abusing this instrument risks meeting future generations of precarious and insecure people, but also and above all low-level pensioners, and therefore poor pensioners. we must therefore avoid demagogy in these important reforms and make a firm effort to take concrete and feasible steps.
mr president, i am pleased with our president, mr hernández mollar, for the feats he has been able to perform in bringing this text to the house. it wasn't easy. to understand the importance of this agreement and, above all, its scope, we must not forget the motivation behind it: it is not so much the immediate emotion of the aftermath of 9/11, but rather the urgency, in the wake of those tragic days, of creating a network of control and counteraction of the terrorist organizations operating in the world. as stated in the resolution adopted by this parliament in december 2001, 'any agreement on judicial and police cooperation signed by the european union must respect the convention on human rights'. the first concern - and this has already been mentioned - is to prevent the extradition of prisoners who are facing the death penalty in the united states. now, that being the case, i do not see what other concerns there are. however, we think it is too much to make the implementation of this agreement conditional on a commitment to take action on the situation at the guantánamo base. the united states can be asked to be clear and transparent about what is happening at that base, but we must not obstruct the progress of an agreement which goes much further, which is in the interests of world security and not just american security. that is why we voted against the guantánamo amendment in committee, leaving the case to be dealt with independently. as for the united states being described as a country where human rights are not respected, well, i do not want to be a lawyer by profession, but let us remember that the united states is the first true democracy in the world and in the history of civilization. i think that certain judgments are to be regarded as being decidedly biased. the agreement is an important step forward in the fight not only against terrorism but also against financial crime, multinational drug trafficking, money laundering, cybercrime and human trafficking: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
mr president, i had a dream last night that the italian, french, german, portuguese and other finance ministers were saying to me: you see, fatuzzo? this report by mr belder on macrofinancial assistance provides for aid to be given to those states which need money for their budgets. but then, can a budget deficit be a good thing? why don't we do the same here in europe: we are not going to give a prize to those who have a deficit and then proceed with infringement proceedings against those countries which manage to achieve a balance. other parliament has the answer.
mr president, i voted in favour of mr schimd's report on employment, but on behalf of the party of pensioners and all pensioners, i would like to stress in this house, which is so attentive to the voting declarations of all members, but in particular, as we know and as we also see, to mine, that the budgets of the states can be improved by increasing pensions if we can only manage better the money that workers and citizens hand over to the state during their working life and then get it back when they become elderly. there's too much waste, too many people interested in receiving money but not deserving of it; if we get our finances in order, we can have less taxes, less taxes, less contributions and more pensions.
i woke up this morning, mr president, thinking i was mr willi rothley, and i came to parliament in the car we have at our disposal, thinking: i want to table an amendment to my report i was speaking as willi rothley to give meps twice as much as judges. but when i arrived here in parliament, i looked in the mirror and saw that i was mr carlo fatuzzo. i had no hope of success; i had to agree to vote in favour: better to be half a judge than no judge at all.
mr president, this morning on my way to parliament i dreamt that i was meeting the prime minister of brazil, mr lula, who said to me: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union, but we should be concerned about the future of the european union. it is so important for us and for the whole world that this free trade procedure, which you europeans initiated, should be extended that i dream of becoming the prodi of mercosur. then it just came to me: but is romano prodi, president of the commission, really prodi or is lula thinking he is prodi? but as you know, mr. president, it was a dream.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, the commission's objectives are laudable, certainly understandable in a macroeconomic context, but hardly agreeable. the commission is in favour of greater price competitiveness, but also of respect for society's needs, such as sustainability and quality. the question is how european farmers will meet the demands of society, which demands very strict rules on production methods, guarantees, food safety, etc., at a time when the need for price reduction and cost containment is being imposed in order to remain competitive on world markets. the commission supports the simplification argument. i think that the proposals, when analysed, show that they are complex measures designed to increase rather than reduce bureaucracy. it is only necessary to look at one aspect of the proposals, the system of rights in the context of decoupling, to see how much bureaucracy will increase in our companies. i see a very pessimistic scenario -- i sincerely hope i'm wrong -- that is structured in three very simple points: first, the proposed price reduction, together with decoupling, will lead to a sharp drop in production in many regions and sectors, leading to an acceleration of structural change and an exodus from rural areas; in addition to the impact on farms, decoupling will cause fragmentation of the agri-food chain with a threat to employment and a serious impact on agricultural cooperatives. secondly, the european market will be strongly influenced by the world's major exporters, which in our view will certainly not be the developing countries. thirdly, the only new measures which will be taken to help farmers to apply stricter standards and ensure quality will have to be financed by the farmers themselves, through the reduction of support. if that is the scenario, i wonder how the reform can be supported.
mr president, commissioner, the commission's legislative proposal contains elements of reform of the common agricultural policy which we find rather worrying. the total decoupling proposed by the commission will encourage the abandonment of production, especially in less-favoured or marginal areas, and it cannot be the only and complete answer to the need for a substantial reform of the cap. although it allows greater room for manoeuvre in the wto negotiations, the total decoupling of production aid could mean the eventual dismantling of all market management measures. we believe that reform is necessary, but in accordance with the objectives set out in the treaties and with the values of quality, environmental protection and, above all, employment, providing, in order to increase employment, for the practical possibility for the member states to link a share of direct aid granted under the first pillar to the employment factor. in any case, we believe that safeguarding our agricultural system and promoting a future of security and dignity for our farmers must remain the priority objectives, and it is to be hoped that these priority objectives will influence any negotiations within the wto, and not the other way around. for all these reasons, we believe that a gradual and vertical decoupling of aid is possible, in order to limit the application of this measure gradually and to certain sectors only. the extension of decoupling to the livestock sector, rice and durum wheat is absolutely premature, also in relation to the definitive nature of this measure. we cannot agree with the diversity of the proposed aid and we believe that the amounts obtained from modulation should be used primarily to ensure rural development measures which also include quality support, without differentiating between disadvantaged and non-disadvantaged areas. these are the main reasons why we have tabled a number of amendments on behalf of our group, which i hope will be accepted by the house. we have also tabled, on behalf of the uen group, a number of amendments aimed at introducing a more balanced system of aid for nuts: the commission has already proposed a system which, taking account of the different production situations in the union, provides for a more equitable distribution of support between the different member states and an increase in the aid per hectare compared with what has already been proposed by the commission. we would have welcomed the introduction of a separate sector for animal husbandry, which would have the aim of defending traditional breeding methods and their presence in the territory. we will support with conviction all those really important amendments which, like those tabled by our group, aim to introduce a preferential scheme for young farmers, aimed at facilitating the entry of the new generations into productive activities. finally, as regards the milk sector, we believe that it is desirable to move beyond the quota system and that, twenty years after the adoption of the provisional system, the time has come to ensure, by means of a certain but reasonably limited path, an appropriate transition to normal market dynamics. we nevertheless believe that the agreement in principle reached on the key principles of the reform can be a good starting point for future agreement in the council.
council i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his understanding of my request and all the members of the european parliament. you know there's a strike at the moment by the air traffic controllers and after 5.30 he can't fly the plane i have to take back to athens. i would like to say a few things in response to the very pertinent remarks made by all the members and rapporteurs and the special speakers. i can assure you that i have noted with great interest all your proposals and will take them into account in the compromise proposal which we shall be sending to the council of agriculture ministers which will meet in luxembourg on 11 and 12 june. i have noted with particular interest your very good suggestions on the effects of full disconnection, especially on small and mediumsized farms, as well as the effects that full disconnection may have on farms in remote and less-favoured areas. i therefore think that the council will take a particular interest in these proposals. now as regards modulation, i want to assure you that i take seriously the limit proposed by mr cunha, which is slightly higher than the one proposed by the commission, but of course it is a matter which will also be discussed in the council of agriculture ministers. i am closing with the cross compliance issues. i think all the ministers are calling for more transparency in the payment of aid. they want the money paid by european taxpayers to be put to good use in developing farms, producing quality products, healthy products for european citizens and for our customers, of course, and that is why we want the payment procedures to be as simple as possible. with these words, mr president, i would like to thank you once again for your very kind treatment and to assure you that the presidency will take all the measures at its disposal so that on 11 and 12 june there will be an honest and frank compromise in the council of agriculture ministers for a new dynamic and efficient european agriculture.
- thank you, mr president-in-office of the council. i am sure your staff will convey to you, even briefly, the opinions expressed during your absence.
i think you are right, commissioner, when you say that we are finally talking about reform of the cap, but your reform is not the reform we need, especially if, as parliament seems to want, we are asking for a reduction in its impact. his reform does not tackle the root of the cap issue, which is the scandalous fact that the european union continues and intends to continue to pour half of its budget into subsidies and agricultural market protectionism, to protect a sector that represents 2% of the european union's gdp. there is much talk of the lisbon objectives, to make the eu economy the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010. and do we think that this can be somehow attainable when half our budget is devoted to protecting and subsidizing agricultural production? the cap reform cannot be achieved by taking account of the interests of farmers; it must be in the interests of the european union, that is, in the interests of all citizens and all consumers who pay 70% more for milk than they would without subsidies in an open market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. the community's contribution to the development of the acp countries is very small. the example of new zealand, which is a small country, is significant: the weight of agriculture in gdp has increased after the complete elimination of subsidies and agricultural protectionism; employment has increased, particularly among young entrepreneurs; the quality has improved. if we want, we can also discuss environmental protection, marginal and mountain areas; but if we continue to ask that half the community budget be allocated to protecting and subsidizing the production and export of european agricultural products, then we are discussing something else. we deny the possibility of reaching agreement on the major wto trade agreements and, above all, we continue to harm european citizens, consumers and taxpayers. that is the truth, and this reform, which is designed to dismantle the cap, must be put on the agenda as soon as possible.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too start from the view that it was by no means certain that the house would vote. we are here because of a responsible choice by the committee on agriculture of the european parliament, which has shown great commitment and has developed a method capable of going through more than 1 000 amendments and of achieving a reasonable balance in the totality of its proposals. it is precisely because of this capacity, which i hope will be confirmed by the vote in the house tomorrow, that i am sure the commissioner and the council will pay greater attention to the work of parliament. i think the balance of the reports, and in particular that of mr cunha, is sufficient. we wanted to affirm the need for reform, and those who oppose the reform with various arguments should simply remember that blocking it does not defend the cap, but ends up taking away its social legitimacy. we have therefore undertaken to introduce corrective measures to avoid the risk of uncoupled aid becoming aid measures or leading to production abandonment. the partial decoupling we want is going in that direction. finally, i would like to draw the attention of the presidency and the commissioner to the decision we have taken to maintain support for durum wheat unchanged, and i also hope that special attention will be paid to the expiring mcas, in addition to this package: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the effects of the crisis.
mr president, commissioner fischler, representatives of the council, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me thank my fellow rapporteurs for their excellent work. i would like to stress that the overall implementation of the medium-term reform of the community's agricultural policy can only be supported, given the financial limits we have set for ourselves until 2013 and also taking into account the new challenges of enlargement. however, there are some questions: the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. we must therefore try above all to reassure our farmers. i therefore ask the council to discipline this mechanism as much as possible, protecting the various products and above all the farmers' incomes. another element of the commission's proposal which concerns me very much is the employment incentive. the july proposal referred to the criterion of work units; the commission has not yet adopted the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the danger that the shift of aid from production to income will not encourage the cultivation of fields can be partly averted by this decision. we must therefore make every effort to ensure that these aspects are taken into account, as well as quality, because by promoting quality we will be able to make our agriculture competitive on the markets.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a reform proposal, however articulated, cannot satisfy the many agricultural systems that exist in europe. it was thus inevitable that the debate would become lively and even distant, depending on the different sensibilities of the members. to get straight to the heart of the matter, i come from the mountains and in this debate i want to bring the views of those who live and work in the mountains. the shift from the market, and therefore from production, to the farm is a positive thing for us, as is the proposal to transfer the savings from modulation to rural development. despite the many hesitations towards the mountain, despite the fact that the mountain is never mentioned in this reform, we can say that it is on the horizon. finally, and for the first time, there is talk, in a rather serious way, of multi-functionality, which is an indispensable requirement for certain disadvantaged peripheral areas. multifunctionality is a long-standing practice in mountain areas where, alongside his primary responsibility, the farmer is asked to control the development of the forests, to regulate water courses, to take care of the lives of animals and to keep the environment in order for the benefit of agriturism and tourism. this also implies the utmost care in the quality of typical products and niche products, which have been very successful and profitable on the market for some time. this too may help to convince some youths not to abandon the mountain. but it 's not enough . the role of multi-functionality brings added value to the community and should therefore be rewarded accordingly. it 's not enough to have a ridiculous cutting bounty . the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. otherwise the exodus, which is already under way, will continue and the depopulation of the mountain will be the inevitable consequence.
commission. in answer to the honourable member, all community action concerning languages is inclusive, not exclusive action. we have not clearly defined what the languages are because in the action programme which i am going to present in july this year we would like to outline all the languages spoken in the enlarged european union. we will see if it is possible to include migration languages such as those you mentioned, mr evans. at any rate, they are not excluded by any of our texts.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as regards the subject of language learning beyond the official languages, that is to say, regional languages, minority languages and also the now raised issue of immigrant languages, i believe that these areas should be kept separate, namely the official languages and the regional and minority languages on the one hand and the immigrant languages on the other. i would ask the commissioner to give us her opinion, also with regard to the plan drawn up in connection with the year of languages, which had a very clear definition. i think that the limited resources available to the commission would require far more funds for this activity than have been made available to her.
the commission. - the honourable member is as pleased as i am with the wisdom of the conventionists, who have really brought sport into the draft treaty, taking into account what the union and parliament have been saying about it for years. for years we have been talking about the social and educational aspects of sport. these are the dimensions which have been retained in the draft treaty and fortunately not the exaggerated requirements of certain sports organisations. the wisdom of conventional sports has therefore prevailed over the demands of certain sports organizations. i would like to thank all the athletes and sports organisations, including the president of the international olympic committee, who have helped us for years to get this article in the treaty. i would also like to thank the members of the convention, the members of parliament and all the national politicians who have worked towards this. as for the world anti-doping agency, amada, it poses some minor problems, in particular because it is not based on international law and therefore its proposals are not based on international law either. the agency is a private law body, which does not make things easy. as for the controls, i don't know if they're any less than before. i hear it said all over the place that there are too many, that everyone is doing checks wrong and that it would be better to concentrate them and act with logic and in accordance with national legislation. until then, many problems will have to be solved. a code from amad is not enough. the national legislation must be changed or adapted. let us imagine that a sports organisation sentences an athlete to two years' suspension, that athlete goes before a national court of justice and that the legislation of that state is not in accordance with the amad code: the athlete will be acquitted and we will then be faced with a beautiful cacophony and more uncertainty than before. i believe that we should finally decide to strike a balance, to reform national doping legislation and to get the union to take additional action in the field of education and prevention.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am pleased to hear that the commissioner is working in this area and i congratulate her on that. i have a very specific question on the subject of doping: it is pointed out again and again when doping cases occur that the athletes were not aware of the content of the drugs. a relatively simple - though not absolutely certain - measure would be to mark doping agents by their labelling, for example by a red dot or red stripe on the packaging, to indicate in a particular way the content and the danger of doping. could the commissioner take steps in this direction?
the commission. the european commission has of course analysed the prospects and the specific problems of youth unemployment in enlarged europe. the first concerns the fear of migration flows. the youngest workers are usually the ones who move. studies we have done show that mobility from the 10 future member states to the present european union of 15 will be relatively limited. it is estimated that there will be a surge in the first few years, reaching 250 000 people per year, of which half will be labour, but this labour mobility will begin to decline towards the end of the decade to less than 100 000 people. of course, these studies always have a considerable degree of predictability. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. in addition, past enlargement experiences in europe, as well as the study of the phenomenon of migration, suggest that new migrant workers from the new member states will move more towards the prosperous regions of their own countries, in large cities, where unemployment rates are relatively lower and job opportunities are relatively good. the first choice of young people in these countries is their own centres and their own regions with the greatest development, not the choice of going to another country. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the second point concerns the transitional arrangements for the free movement of workers which have been decided at european level. as you know, there is an agreement on the free movement of workers during the first two years. after accession, each member state may decide on free movement, but may also postpone it for five years. it's the 5+2 rule. the third issue concerns the employment strategy, the implementation of policies where the european union has an added value. it is important to note that the european commission has been working with each of the applicant countries for three years now, where we are basically trying to support the creation of individual action plans to tackle unemployment. significant efforts are being made to address the prevention of early school leaving, which is a serious problem in many of these countries, and to prepare for the new generation of structural funds to invest heavily in human resources. so, again, my answer covers three main categories of issues. it's the migration flows and the study of the phenomenon with possible predictions. the second is the institutional framework as it has been set up at european level and the third is the implementation of employment policies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to see the last part of your briefing, madam commissioner, dealt with in more detail, namely the question of the use of the structural funds in the field of training. they had specifically addressed the issue of school dropouts. i think it would be very important if the european union paid particular attention to training, so that young people in the applicant countries have a chance of finding suitable jobs in their own countries. it would also be important for psychology, for the basic attitudes in these countries, that young people see that they have a chance in europe and that europe guarantees them that chance. i therefore wonder whether it is possible to make a special effort in financial terms through the structural funds.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0154/2003), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on transboundary movements of genetically modified organisms [15546/1/2002 - c5-0081/2003 - 2002/0046 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr sjöstedt).
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0151/2003) by mr de roo, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 1999/32/ec as regards the sulphur content of marine fuels (com (2002) 595 - c5-0558/2002 - 2002/0259 (cod)).
- thank you very much, mrs wallström. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, at 12 noon.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following reports, tabled on behalf of the committee on fisheries:- a5-0168/2003 by mr hudghton, on the proposal for a council regulation on the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms (com (2002) 672 - c5-0026/2003 - 2002/0275 (cns)) - a5-0165/2003 by mr stevenson, on the proposal for a council regulation on the management of the fishing effort relating to certain community fishing areas and resources and amending regulation (eec) no 2847/93 (com (2002) 739 - c5-0030/2003 - 2002/0295 (cns)) - a5-0162/2003 by mr fava, on the communication from the commission to the european parliament and the council on the action plan to address the social, economic and regional consequences of the restructuring of the eu fisheries sector (com (2002) 600 - c5-0073/2003 - 2003/2039 (ini))
the rapporteur. mr commissioner, like many colleagues, i believe in the social, cultural and not just economic role of fishing, especially small-scale fishing, because of the role it can play in the processes of economic and social cohesion, especially in the most isolated and peripheral regions. we therefore welcome the commission's action plan to deal with the social consequences of the fisheries reform and we agree with the way in which these consequences should be dealt with by means of a compensation plan. in this context, there are many points in the commission's proposal which raise questions, for example because the reference data proposed are not up to date and relate to the year 2000. three years have passed since then and the commission itself admits that the assessment is rather theoretical. there has not yet been a serious and thorough debate on the model to be chosen: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels. finally, an updated version of the commission's action plan is missing, which would have been useful in some respects in the light of the conclusions of the fisheries council in december last year. that being said, commissioner, certain points in the proposal are not very convincing. let me give you an example. the mediterranean is completely ignored. the commission does not take account of its specific nature, but only considers certain areas of the north sea, the baltic sea; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. our europe continues to look only north. this was the case during the many years of the construction of a community agricultural policy and it is the same today with regard to the community fisheries policy. but this is a risk, especially on the eve of the opening of the mediterranean free trade area in 2010, which will make this sea a great area of social, economic, human and political exchanges, and we must be prepared for this. another important point concerns the loss of jobs. the commission is apparently expecting the loss of 12 000 jobs to be recovered within four years. we think this forecast is optimistic because it underestimates the effects of the reform, and does not take account of the industry or related sectors, the shipyards and the processing industries. the european processing industry alone employs as many as 100 000 people. the commission's forecast fails to take account in particular of the fact that conversion is very unlikely for workers, such as those in the fisheries sector, who, especially in some parts of europe, have a low level of education and work in areas with very high unemployment rates. the idea that they can be recovered and converted back to other labour markets is an illusion, especially in the case of spain, greece, italy and portugal. in many countries, there is a lack of social protection and fishermen risk becoming waste workers, superfluous citizens. the european union is also facing an implicit risk of social, cultural and economic desertification in many parts of the union. aid should be concentrated on small-scale fisheries, given that half of fishermen are now engaged in small-scale fishing and that 75% of vessels are small-scale; it is true that the catch is very small, but small-scale fishing plays a key role in employment. the commission recognizes that the financial incentives for small-scale fishing have not done much, it recognizes that other measures are needed, but they will not be quick, and it speaks only of long-term prospects. these considerations lead us to ask: what resources should be invested to absorb the economic and social consequences of this reform? we do not agree with the restructuring of the structural funds. we think that these funds should be tied to other priorities. the fact that 80% of the regions concerned are objective 1 and 2 regions means that the structural funds are now necessary and strategic to tackle priorities which cannot be confused with the draft of this resolution. we believe that an ad hoc fund should be set up, a temporary measure to implement recovery plans. the commission has already done so. the fact that 22% of the workforce is female is not reflected in the commission's action plan. in essence, the long-term conclusions are approved. we believe, however, that it would be useful to re-propose some parts of the action plan and to analyse more closely the economic and social consequences of this reform.
mr president, i shall dwell on the fava report and then make a brief comment on this very interesting debate on the irish box. i would like to ask you, commissioner, if it is possible, for some clarification on mr fava's report, since you have said that you agree with the proposals contained therein. the report by mr fava, which we shall be supporting tomorrow, stresses that the data on which it is based are not up to date and are therefore not particularly reliable: the 12 000 jobs that are expected to be lost are underestimated; the aim is to provide a more flexible and more flexible approach to the training of the unemployed. mr fava said all that today, and yet you say you agree with him in principle. i cannot understand your favourable assessment of the report in relation to the proposals put forward. the committee on budgets then says that there is no money and that the constraints are such that additional resources are excluded. so if you can think of something with your imagination, we'd really appreciate it. i would propose - and i am curious to know your opinion - that, in view of these budgetary difficulties, some responsibility should also be given to the member states - that is what we shall be asking for in another report - for example by allowing them to apply the de minimis rule, which you are well aware of, also in fisheries, since it is a rule also applied in agriculture. as for the other subject under discussion, i must confess that i am a little disappointed with the debate. the excessive nationalistic tone of the debate leads me to believe that a common fisheries policy no longer makes sense. if we talk about the portuguese sea, the irish sea or the spanish sea, it is clear that the margins of discussion are reduced. in these times of real difficulty, the only point of reference is the law. respect for the law will make it possible to reconcile environmental sustainability with rights, treaties and agreements, the only guarantee that we will not slip into national policies and that we will continue to pursue a common policy in this area.
- thank you, commissioner. the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, at 12 noon. the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). (the sitting was closed at 11.20 p.m.)
- mr president, i thank you for your official visit to the european parliament. as i have already said, this is a unique visit and therefore a first. i thank you for your moving speech which touched us and which we listened to with great interest. my dear colleagues, our solemn session is over.
mr president, i would just like to inform the house that, due to force majeure, i will not be able to take part in the vote today. a meeting of the convention has been called for this afternoon in brussels and, as there are no flights after the vote, i shall be obliged to leave the chamber at 11 a.m.
mr president, i too welcome the work of the greek presidency in recent months and express my satisfaction with the work we did last night to conclude the agreement on better regulation. i am particularly grateful to the president of the commission for reminding us of the origins of the convention and of our objectives, which we sometimes forget when we see that some members of the praesidium, and especially its president, aspire to dress more like members of the intergovernmental conference than as founding fathers of europe. i believe that the convention, mr president, must remain the owner of the process of reforming the european union. if it fails to complete its work by 20 june, it must be allowed to continue working towards an agreement, which is perfectly possible provided that the convention plays its full role as a constituent or para-constituent assembly, does not accept blackmail from a few eurosceptics who have no interest in its success - this must be said and repeated - and claims the value of an open and parliamentary working method which is very different from the intergovernmental method, based solely on the balance of power. it is true that the president and the praesidium clearly miscalculated by deliberately prolonging the time of the final discussion without ever stating clearly on which points a broad consensus had been reached, thus deluding themselves that they could control the game of the convention at their will and giving the wrong impression that the convention was divided on everything; but today the governments which care about the success of this constitutional reform - and there are some, i am sure, and i am also sure that your government, mr president, is one of them - cannot simply turn off the lights on the convention if it does not complete its work to the satisfaction of the majority of its members. we believe that if the convention were to come to thessaloniki with options, that would be proof that the work is not finished. i believe that there are at least three areas where we need to give a signal of progress, democracy and clarity, which is directly visible to all citizens: direct access to justice for citizens in cases of breach of the charter of rights; the council's co-decision and majority powers are extended simultaneously, in particular for taxation and external relations. we cannot act as a global actor, committed to the values of multilateralism and democracy, if we are stuck at every step, driven by vetoes and controversies, and if this whole sector remains, as it is today, totally excluded from any form of parliamentary control. thirdly and lastly, we believe that the revision process cannot maintain unanimity and cannot see once again - and this is a very surprising thing in 2003 - the european parliament excluded from the ratification process. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have repeatedly denounced the strong imbalance, compared with the strategy decided in tampere, between the repressive aspects of the fight against illegal immigration and the policy of forced returns and the positive aspects, such as the establishment of legal and controlled channels of immigration, the relaxation of visa policy, measures for the integration of third countries based on the principle of non-discrimination. we hope, mr president, that the council will heed the loud and clear message that this parliament gave yesterday: no extradition treaty between the european union and the united states will be signed without clarification of the situation of eu citizens in guantanamo. we speak of citizens of the union not because we are not concerned or interested in others, but because we believe that through this key we can legitimately intervene on the whole question of the existence of a zone in the world where there is no law.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the beautiful speech by mr bonde - but a friend asked me: and the announcement of the apocalypse? personally, i think it's the happy outcome of a sick fantasy, that of goya's monsters. if we follow the convention's specialists, the balance between the community and the intergovernmental, the distribution of the legislative and executive powers, etc., we shall see that we are in the phase of the most absolute decadence, in which we can only succeed in destroying everything that is classic that can still be in front of us and that has brought us here. i am here to claim the europe of altiero spinelli and ernesto rossi. why would you do that? because these europeans conceived the european federation in the fascist prisons. this is a name: they were fascist, communist, nazi, clerical, counter-reformist prisons, all kinds of them. their dream was to liquidate the monsters of nationalist degenerations, of ethnic groups that claimed to constitute themselves in legal ethics to the detriment of the different. mr president, i would like to say one thing, very modestly: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this debate. we were supposed to discuss this on the 18th in the mini-show. there the president of the council could have told us real things, and we would have known what they were discussing in thessaloniki. today, we are simply told what we read in the press. parliament is degrading itself. we should have refused to discuss this at a time when the decisions which will be proposed are not known, and i am very sorry that no member has wanted to stress this. we would have met on the 18th and 19th, and the council would have met in thessaloniki on the 20th and 21st. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i very much appreciated what mr wurtz said this time, and i think this is the first time in 20 years. when he points out that 'we are facing an identity crisis', he is right. but what is the identity crisis to be measured against? where do we sign up? either we are joining the history of continental europe, which for the last hundred years has not ceased to produce monsters of all kinds, including our institutional monstrosities, which have nothing to do with the cleanliness of a state of law and its functioning, or else you are already producing a new anti-liberal, anti-democratic, anti-humanistic monster of this europe of counter-reform and its thousand violent and murderous suggestions. it is no accident that we have found ourselves, or rather you have found yourselves, in iraq actually on the side of saddam. let's say that solana still goes to arafat, even though there is another perspective, that of abu mazen, created by sharon and bush. you, like in the 1940s, are the heirs of the europe that britain and america liberated. we have to get rid of you, and we will!
mr president, i too will focus on the contribution that the thessaloniki council can make to a successful conclusion of the convention and thus to a successful preparation of the intergovernmental conference. at this stage it is not easy to predict where the work of the convention will have reached on the eve of thessaloniki, what the text will be that president giscard d'estaing will submit to the council, what degree of consensus will have been reached in the convention. i think that not everything will be cleared up and defined before thessaloniki and that, in any case, it will be up to the council to give further impetus to the full achievement of the objectives set out in the laeken declaration of december 2001, the main points of which have already been mentioned by president prodi. i would like to recall the content and tone of that declaration, particularly with regard to the tasks which the european union must carry out and the challenges it must face. it would be a serious matter if the conclusions reached before the convention and then the intergovernmental conference were below those ambitions. i feel it is my duty to sound the alarm on this point: the questions raised in the laeken declaration about the european union's global role or about greater coordination of economic policies, and so on, were they merely rhetorical questions? watch out for that! if we fail to meet the expectations which they have raised among european citizens and world opinion, we shall bear a heavy responsibility. the risk exists today, as is clear from the text so far adopted by the praesidium of the convention, of yielding to the growing pressure of some heads of government of the larger countries, especially as regards the chapter on the institutions, the council's decision-making procedures and even the future procedures for revising the treaty. it would perhaps be instructive in various respects to read over the treaty, whose rapporteur was altiero spinelli and which was approved in this parliament in february 1984. president prodi has already said a great deal and very clearly about all the serious contradictions and shortcomings in the text adopted by the praesidium so far on institutional matters. i just want to reaffirm the positions expressed by our parliament, which as an institution did not remain silent, did not rely solely on its 16 representatives in the convention - unfortunately only 16 out of 105 - but through the committee on constitutional affairs provided many contributions and sparked important discussions during which - i want to stress this above all - there was a clear position against the assumption of a full-time president of the european council. to strengthen the authority of the european council as a college, we have put forward other proposals, avoiding excessive personalisation and not just focusing on the figure of a president who has been in office for two and a half or five years. president poettering stressed that the incompatibility between the mandate of president of the european council and other european mandates must be avoided. i think it is essential to also remove the incompatibility with the national mandate because if we arrive at the establishment of a full-time president of the european council, even if we call him chairman or try to give him a limited job description, all the elements of duplication, of dualism in the leadership of the union, which have been denounced as a serious confusion as regards the executive functions, will be determined fatally. finally, as mrs frassoni and mr bonde have already mentioned, i think it should be stressed that laeken did appoint a president and a vice-president, but it gave a collective mandate to the convention as a whole. i think that the thessaloniki council should make a call in this regard, so that we do not proceed along a path whereby the personal views of the president of the convention, or the compromising views of the praesidium, prevail over the majority views, supported by a wider consensus in the plenary convention.
we thank you, mr president-in-office, for your presence here today and for the information you have given us. the forthcoming thessaloniki summit is of considerable importance for the future of the union, both in the medium and long term. i believe it is important to lay the foundations for europe, or rather the union, which is about to complete an enlargement process unprecedented in its history and in the world's history, to combine economic strength with political dignity. and to do justice to the latter, i would like to speak of the policies neglected by the union itself, which is all the more serious in its growing importance. health care, for example, is one of them. referring to article 152 of the treaty of amsterdam, i recognise national autonomy in health, but a europe which is moving towards enlargement to 25 countries cannot underestimate the impact that the social and health problems of these countries will have on the political and social economy of the future europe. for these reasons, the uen group recently worked in turin on the social and health problems of enlargement, which was followed by a document which has already been presented to commission president prodi. the results of this work have not been encouraging, so much so that we hope that public health will be included among the priorities of the union during the italian semester as soon as possible. the process of globalisation could send sick people and diseases knocking at europe's door, saying that we are inadequate, as was the case with sars: the european union is also taking part in the european year of the environment, which is an opportunity to test the capacity for health coordination and cooperation that the next six months of the italian presidency will have to take on if it is to take the emergency prevention seriously and to tackle the health care gap that individual nations are experiencing and which will move masses of people to countries with excellent care and facilities, which, in turn, could risk paralysis. i hope that the union will take this kind of interest and that the next presidency of the union will put forward proposals in this regard.
mr president, it is a unique situation for a country which has been granted the status of a candidate for accession to the european union to allow the sea of illegals to leave its ports, as happened just a week ago. how can a quasi-police state such as the turkish state, which is so efficient in repressing political opponents and minorities, be so weak and ineffective in dealing with the trafficking of the powerful turkish mafia? this is a good reflection for us as we now prepare to assess the conditions of eligibility for membership. the report, which i think is very balanced and which i agree with the firm content of paragraph 52, makes no mention of the armenian genocide: i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. we must not forget the rights of the diaspora, the children of the victims of that holocaust, who are scattered throughout europe and are european citizens, just like us. a situation, as described by the association for the protection of human rights, that is certainly not encouraging: the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of women are respected and that the rights of men and women are protected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our colleague mr nordmann has spoken very well. i will therefore confirm my support for him, as mr cashman did earlier, and, to quote him, i will say, as he did, that i believe that there are many ulterior motives in this report, ulterior motives which should not be reflected in an objective text on the situation of a country. of course, one must respect the political views of others. however, i agree with what our colleague said about secularism, about a vision - of which there is no trace in the report - about the very essence of the kemalist state and, as far as we can see, about the very effort of the turkish prime minister in office at the moment to bring his country closer to europe. from this point of view, mr oostlander, if our parliament had had the opportunity to make such a detailed report not only on the candidate countries but also on the present member states of the union - i am thinking here of my country - well, it would not be 56 paragraphs but perhaps twice as many as would have been needed to speak about the situation in prisons, the italian judiciary, and many other areas where things are going wrong. in our countries too, colleagues, in some of our countries, not so long ago, people were imprisoned because they were jehovah's witnesses and did not want to do military service. they were forced to do it or went to prison. our countries have experienced all this. of course, turkey must make significant progress, but one of two things: either we offer it the horizon of europe, or we do not offer it and not only make a very serious political and strategic mistake, but invite it, push it in a way towards other horizons, other shores, much more dangerous, not only for stability, but also, i believe, for the well-being of the turks and for their progress towards democracy, the rule of law, human rights. in this connection, we have tabled an amendment with the radical colleagues in this parliament and those in the green group, whom i should like to thank on this occasion, to ensure that the door is not closed, as is the case with the oostlander report, the initial version of which, which reminded me rather of the tone of the battle of lepanto, has certainly been improved in the meantime. we therefore tabled an amendment in which we express our conviction that the conditions for turkey's admission to the accession negotiations will be met if the turkish government pursues with constancy and determination the indispensable reforms under way. in the interests of clarity, which i welcome, the rapporteur has proposed that it be considered as an addition. it is in the same spirit of compromise that i, like the green group, accept the rapporteur's offer, in the hope that we can also agree on a message to turkey which is not marked by closure but by the expectation of real progress. of course, when the time comes, both will be able to make their own choices. but let us at least leave that door open and, in that perspective, i hope that the house will unanimously support this amendment.
mr president, arie oostlander has done an immense and difficult job of trying to mediate between the different opinions that this parliament expresses on a hot and debated issue such as the accession of turkey. the result is a resolution acceptable because of its mediating character, but we would perhaps have liked it to be marked and inspired by greater optimism in order to give turkey a more positive signal, as commissioner verheugen also pointed out, although this country still has a lot to do, to change, to innovate, before it can aspire to accession, as the resolution rightly states. it is necessary to establish whether geography and religion are criteria which limit the possibility of accession or whether the idea of europe is a set of values and principles for which countries subscribing to those values and to those principles of democracy and freedom have the right to apply. it is in this spirit that we, in paragraph 52 of the report, which states that the conditions for opening negotiations do not yet exist - which is undoubtedly true today - would have preferred the version offered by amendment no 11, which was mentioned a moment ago by mr dell'alba, who expresses positive confidence that the conditions will be there if turkey adopts the necessary reforms. i am also grateful to the rapporteur, mr oostlander, who seems to me to be prepared to accept this amendment, if not as a replacement for paragraph 52, at least as an addition.
madam president, i would like to thank mr oostlander for his report, and also the president-in-office of the council, mr yiannitsis, and commissioner verheugen. i think the oostlander report is very balanced and frank. the european union is a union of shared values; the european union is a political union, a political union of nations, and it is a political union of nations. that's the data. it is not the european union that is joining turkey, but turkey that intends to join these shared values. we respect the differences which constitute the wealth of the european union, but the borders are defined by respect for the copenhagen criteria, the principles of democracy and the rule of law, which must be criteria and principles not only proclaimed but implemented and lived. i would venture to say that countries which want to share european culture can be part of the european union. turkey is asking to join. we're not ideologically opposed. we expect the country to take the path that will motivate us to join the culture. the erdogan government must be encouraged in its process of moving closer to the values of the european union. the ideological atlanticists think that turkey's role in nato can be an asset for accession to the european union. maybe in the past it was like that; today we think that nato, with the participation of russia, should gradually assume, with a somewhat more effective contribution from the european union, a role of international police force at the service of the united nations, reformed to defend human rights and democracy in countries around the world. i hope that turkey will follow these suggestions, resolve the cyprus problem and establish good neighbourly relations with all the neighbouring countries by resolving longstanding conflicts.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in my view this debate should make it possible to reflect on our foreign policy relations, and therefore also economic relations, with nafta and, in particular, with the united states and the transatlantic partnership. as regards the famous cfsp, i think and hope that the convention will resolve the political vacuum by appointing a foreign minister and avoid a loss of international credibility like the one we have suffered because of the iraqi crisis. as far as the economic sector is concerned, i think the best solution is not so much to intervene through possible agreements with the world trade organisation as to draw up a single list covering matters in terms of tax and trade facilitation, because in this way we will be able to avoid another bureaucratic mess. otherwise i see no results. the so-called partnership agreements with respect to our first target market, both in terms of investment and trade, will be important if we can revive them by simplifying them by means of a list, an agreement which could be concluded by the commission, especially with nafta. i think that this is an important way of reviving our economy and the political content of our foreign policy on the eve of enlargement.
council in accordance with article 1 (6) of common position 2001/931/cfsp on the application of specific measures to combat terrorism, the names of persons, groups and entities on the list are to be reviewed by the council at regular intervals, and at least every six months, in order to confirm that there is a reason for their inclusion on the list. in the last review, i can inform you that the council has confirmed the inclusion on the list of the iranian organization mujahideen khalq, also known as the people's mujahideen.
council the council has decided that this organisation should be included in the list on the basis of an assessment of all factors. i would also point out that this assessment was based on information given to the member states in accordance with the procedures laid down and that there is a collective decision on this matter.
- the council's response is quite interesting in that it is not very clear what criteria the council uses to determine whether an organisation is a terrorist organisation or not. i think that the rules of due process, of fair trial, should allow the various organisations at least a right of appeal and that it would be quite legitimate for our parliament to be informed of the case in question which enabled the council to take a decision in one direction or another. so my questions are very specific, mr president-in-office. would you, as the council, be prepared to provide the european parliament with the indictment of all the organisations you consider to be terrorist? could you also define the criteria for considering an organisation a terrorist organisation? we know that the russians have just asked for the inclusion of three chechen organizations, two of which are completely non-existent. one case in particular is of interest.
council the common position referred to above sets out all the criteria to be taken into account for the inclusion of names, entities or persons on that list. i would remind you that the decisions on who is to be included in the list are taken by judicial officers who are independent in each member state of the european union and who give us all the guarantees of sound judgment on the matter, because it is indeed a very sensitive matter.
mr president, this second answer is not convincing at all: we know very well that there is no clear procedure for being put on the list of terrorist organisations. mr dupuis asked very clearly what appeal procedures exist against listing. the truth is that, whether you are on the list or not, the only criterion is political evaluation. the question should therefore be re-asked. the council is simply asked to give its opinion on this political assessment, on this new political fact: is this a political fact of such importance that it really warrants a reassessment of the role of this organization?
council weapons of mass destruction, and nuclear weapons in particular, and their non-proliferation is indeed a matter of concern to many in the union in relation to iran. mr elbaradei, director-general of the international atomic energy agency, is expected to report to the iaea board of governors on 16 june on his findings on iran's nuclear programme. this report will contribute to further clarifying the situation as regards the existence of a nuclear weapons programme by iran. the council will take this report into account when it discusses iran at its next meeting. the question concerning the views expressed by the commission on this matter should be put directly to this institution. the commission should also explain what is happening in the context of what is referred to as a 'constructive energy dialogue' with iran, as this dialogue is being conducted on behalf of the union by the commission. the council, in particular in the context of the 'comprehensive dialogue' between the union and iran, shall regularly raise the issue of weapons of mass destruction and non-proliferation; the last time was april 29th. the council urges iran to sign, ratify and fully implement the relevant international agreements, in particular the additional protocol to the iaea safeguards agreements. these issues were raised during the negotiations for a trade and cooperation agreement between the union and iran, which took place in tehran on 1 and 2 june. the council has made it clear to iran that it expects the deepening of economic and trade relations between the union and iran to be accompanied by similar progress in all other aspects of our relations with iran. finally, i would add that the union attaches great importance to achieving global compliance with the non-proliferation treaty and to the establishment of a possible verified nuclear-weapon-free zone in the middle east.
- mr president, i agree with the council that it is the commission which is implementing the constructive dialogue on energy. however, like the council and the european parliament, the commission is part of the european union and, moreover, the council defines the broad lines of foreign policy. i would therefore like to know whether, in the event of negative conclusions in the report to be presented shortly by the international atomic energy agency, the council will ask the commission to suspend this constructive dialogue on energy. that's my question. the commission implements the programmes, but it is the council which sets the broad guidelines.
council the council is fully aware that the restoration of sustainable political and economic stability in iraq will depend to a large extent on the constructive attitude of the neighbouring countries. the european union therefore constantly urges neighbouring countries, including iran, to exercise restraint and support the efforts to stabilise iraq. the council has identified the middle east peace process as a key area where the council wishes to achieve substantive progress through enhanced dialogue with iran. the council has also made it clear to iran that it expects the deepening of economic and trade relations between the eu and iran to be accompanied by corresponding progress in all other areas of our relations with iran. both iraq and the middle east were discussed at length with the iranian side at the last meeting of the eu-iran 'european dialogue' in athens on 29 april. the union will continue to raise these issues in its contacts with iran.
mr president-in-office of the council, we are expecting something very important to happen today in sharm el-sheikh, namely a dialogue between the israelis and the palestinians, which we hope will be very constructive. europe is absent, and yet it cultivates the idea of critical dialogue, which means doing business without paying any attention or at least any real attention to the problem of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. in view of the news that iran is pushing you to do so - pushing which i highlighted in my statement - in view of the mobilization of dozens of members of parliament who are calling for greater commitment by means of a document so that iran democratizes its system, otherwise measures will have to be taken against it, i do not say hostile but such as to make it clear that critical dialogue is not the way to deal with problems, how does the council react to this increasingly urgent request from the european parliament?
council the council stresses that, as a general rule, weapons of mass destruction and their non-proliferation have indeed been one of the areas of concern for the european union in relation to iran for many years. the union encourages iran to sign, ratify and fully implement the relevant international instruments, in particular, as i said before, the agreements of the international atomic energy agency, because the iranian nuclear programme is currently causing concern in the international community, and i have already referred to this. the union also encourages iran to participate fully in the work leading up to the sixth review conference of the biological and toxin weapons convention scheduled for 2006. i would like to point out that the round of negotiations in tehran on 1 and 2 june on a trade and cooperation agreement between the eu and iran provided an opportune opportunity to raise these issues with iran. as regards coal, the council is not aware of any specific production programme by the iranian regime. however, any indication of the possible existence of such a programme is taken seriously and examined with all due care.
it is the usual answer we get whenever the question of relations between the european union and any dictatorial regime on the planet is raised. there is no dictatorial, undemocratic regime on this planet that is not funded by the european union under the pretext that this serves to open a dialogue. let's see what happens in vietnam, laos, china, cuba! your words, mr president, remind me of what was said in this house in december 2000 in view of the adoption of the joint resolution on afghanistan. well, it would be funny to hear it again today. the short-sightedness with which we look to the future, and yet we are already seeing it today, this method of relating to it, is not only unconvincing, but it is worrying and announces far greater destruction than we are already causing ourselves.
council the council remains gravely concerned about the violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in iran. the council is endeavouring to strengthen respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and to promote the rule of law in that country. this is done, among other things, through the wider eu-iran human rights dialogue, which was established last december. the council has repeatedly made clear that the deepening of eu-iran trade relations - which is also envisaged in the ongoing negotiations on a trade and cooperation agreement - should be accompanied by similar progress in all other areas of eu-iran relations. this means that any enhanced cooperation and trade with iran should be accompanied by substantive positive developments in a number of areas of concern to the union, including in particular human rights.
mr president, the problem raised in this question is, in fact, the more general problem of the council's willingness to make a clear and concrete proposal on a step which the council considers to be fundamental and indispensable in the path towards democracy. my question was about a referendum on democracy. if you do not want the referendum, you can find other means. the key point is that the council must set parameters. the request is specific. we cannot simply call for dialogue, mutual understanding, and say that the situation must be improved. there must be fixed points. do you not want the referendum? we want to know what the council's fixed point is, what the lowest common denominator is for you, the essential threshold. if you tell us today that our trade agreements will be subject to verification of the progress made in the field of democracy and human rights, the question to be asked is: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. otherwise it 's a never-ending chase; and then perhaps, with a general outcry, the united states will come forward with other solutions or other instruments.
madam president, i do not think we need to add any more energy to the one mrs pack has already given. i am here to explain an oral question which, on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, has been prepared by mr rocard, who is not here to explain it. this question is based on the points already made by both mr iivari and mr pack, namely that we in the committee on culture have often found that many of the measures which were subsequently adopted by the council were drawn up by a method of coordination from which we were excluded. we have been confronted with measures already taken, on which we could only express an opinion after the fact, on the basis of the method of coordination which would be very useful to apply effectively also to parliament. with this question we ask the commission: firstly, can it in any way ensure that future measures taken by the council under the coordination method will be notified to parliament and to parliament's committees in good time so that they can examine them and express their views? secondly, to clarify - although in this situation everything seems to depend on the convention - whether it has any proposals to make on the wider application of the open method of coordination, so that parliament is not excluded. the previous speakers have already raised all these points at length, and we now wish to reformulate them in this oral question as actual questions to which we await a reply from the commission.
- mr president, i asked to see the minutes this morning because i had a complaint about the proceedings of yesterday's sitting. to my great surprise, i learned that the minutes were not distributed in the morning, as was usual and as i believe the rules of procedure provide. i would therefore like to ask the following question: firstly, why, unlike what has been done so far, do we not have the minutes and, secondly, when do you intend to distribute them?
mr president, commissioner, i congratulate the rapporteur, karin jöns, on her report, which is rich in content and promising results, and i have the honour to do so because i am the director of a senology centre in italy. i fully share all the calls on the member states to achieve a voluntary participation rate of women in breast screening of over 70%, a rate that no nation has achieved today. i consider it of great importance to encourage and disseminate in the member states initiatives for technical and healthcare training, psychological support for breast cancer patients and the promotion, at community level, of training and specialization courses which - i would add - are provided by university institutions, university masters of the second level. these courses could also be funded with the resources we use for training. the call for the creation of european cancer registries as soon as possible is welcome, so that reliable and comparable data on the evolution of neoplastic disease as a whole are finally available in the european union. it is right to urge the member states to use the resources of the structural funds to finance the creation of health infrastructure. i fully share the rapporteur's call for, among other things, cosmetic interventions such as the implantation of prostheses, the supply of wigs and whatever else a patient needs to regain a body identity as close as possible to that which she had before the illness. in many countries these interventions are not paid for. however, there are some points that puzzle me. i would first like to point out that the report produced by a committee on women's rights and equal opportunities lacks an essential reference for this committee to be able to call itself 'an equal opportunities committee'. the rapporteur never mentioned male cancer patients. this type of cancer, unfortunately, also affects men: basically, one male in every 100,000 people, ages 58 to 63, gets breast cancer. i can add that their prognosis is worse than that of women precisely because, as they are not screened, their cancer is diagnosed late. i wonder if this committee should not at least give men the same right to information as women. male breast cancer accounts for 1% of all breast cancers and i understand that its incidence is not economically significant enough to be considered for screening. i would, however, like to see an awareness campaign aimed at the male population so that, like women, men too can find in early diagnosis the possibility of increasing their quantity and quality of life. the risk of developing breast cancer is particularly high among young people because of the widespread use of female hormones and metabolizers, which often cause untreated gynecomastia. the second point i would like to make is that concerning paragraph 7 (g) of the report. it seems to me that reminding patients of the possibility of exercising their right to sue a doctor for malpractice is a useless act, as already provided for in the charter of the rights of the patient, and also harmful, as it could undermine the relationship of trust between doctors and patients on which, as shown by studies and research, 50 per cent of the therapeutic result depends. i think it is more legitimate for this kind of control of the adequacy of the quality of treatment to be carried out by the institutions which are responsible for this, for example the european commission for the control of centres of excellence, the specialist breast unit.
mr president, if the european parliament is facing this important and delicate problem today, which affects the health of millions of people, of millions of women in our continent and throughout the world, we owe it, as is universally recognized, to the determination and sensitivity of mr jöns, whom i also want to thank wholeheartedly. since breast cancer can be cured in 90% of cases if it is diagnosed at an early stage and treated correctly, as is also shown by the data provided by mr jöns and by the current research, since quality mammography screening, in the framework of a regional or national programme, can reduce breast cancer mortality by as much as 35% among women aged 50 to 69 and since, according to the scientific studies mentioned, mortality can also be reduced by 20% for women aged 40 to 49, every woman must have access to quality screening, care and post-therapy, regardless of her place of residence, social position, profession or level of education. the main and important points of mr jöns' report are precisely: an excellent prevention strategy, rapid treatment, and sound post-operative treatment. i therefore invite the member states and the commission - and i thank them for their words of encouragement - to make the fight against breast cancer a priority of health policy and to develop and implement effective strategies to improve prevention, with the aim of reducing by 25% by 2008 the average mortality rate for breast cancer in the union. i believe that this report is a landmark, as is the right of women with breast cancer to be treated by a multidisciplinary team. it is therefore important that member states develop a comprehensive network of certified, multidisciplinary wine centres that meet specific quality criteria. a final point i would like to make is the importance of research. the sixth framework programme devotes resources to research in the following fields: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the report by mr schnellhardt is part of a much larger project. mr schnellhardt is a specialist by training and for that reason his reports are extremely well-founded, although perhaps often a little too technical for a non-specialist. but that speaks for him, not necessarily for us. i would like to begin by congratulating him on the documents he has presented. we need food security. this is a subject we are all aware of and support. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not distorted. professional supervision is of the utmost importance and decisive. it is not enough, of course, to adopt very comprehensive standards but at the same time to ignore or fail to take due account of controls and sanctions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal health inspections carried out by the veterinary surgeons are carried out in a proper manner. mr president, i fully understand that the colleagues who come in do not necessarily pay much attention to what is being discussed here at the moment. i am regularly in that situation myself. but if you could at least make sure that the acoustics are improved a little bit, then you could at least understand your own words and not just hear this awful noise. i was hoping that you would at least listen to me, mr president, as mrs diamantopoulou does. (the president interrupted the speaker and asked for silence in the chamber.) thank you, mr president. the problems of the size and the manageability of the holdings were raised on several occasions. i think we simply need more flexibility for smaller firms, commissioner. we cannot treat large slaughterhouses and small craftsmen alike. i would ask you to take this into account and to create the conditions for small and mediumsized enterprises to have a chance of survival, while at the same time taking into account the necessary, absolutely necessary protection of consumers.
in writing. - there are at least two good reasons of principle, if not more, for the french delegation of the uen group to vote against this report. the first concerns the perspective in which it is embedded: the planned accession of turkey to the european union. turkey is the heir to a great civilization. however, culturally distinct from judeo-christian and humanist europe, geographically located (95%) in asia minor and not belonging to the indo-european family, turkey has no vocation, in my opinion, to join the union. yes to cooperation with the eu; no to membership! the second reason is that the european union has an obligation to respect the national sovereignty of third countries. it is perfectly clear that this outrageous report constitutes a flagrant interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign state. but what right and what moral principle gives the european union the right to judge and sometimes condemn turkey in this way? but who are we to stigmatize, for example, "the excessive role of the military which would hinder turkey's evolution towards a pluralist democratic system"? this report, which is contemptuous of the turkish people, does a very bad service to europe as a whole.
- the minutes have been circulated. are there any observations?
- i can also confirm your presence.
- the next item is the report (a5-0157/2003) by mrs fourtou, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the communication from the commission to the european parliament and the european ombudsman concerning relations with the complainant in respect of breaches of community law (com (2002) 141 - c5-0288/2002 - 2002/2148 (cos)).
- this debate is over. the vote will take place after the debate on cases of human rights violations.
- the agenda calls for debates on cases of violation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
- b5-0293/2003 by mr nassauer and mr posselt, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation in indonesia, particularly in the province of aceh; - b5-0298/2003 by mr vinci, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the situation in indonesia, in particular in papua and aceh; - b5-0301/2003 by mr belder, on behalf of the edd group, on the situation in indonesia, in particular in the province of aceh; - b5-0307/2003 by mr van den bos, on behalf of the eldr group, on the situation in indonesia, papua and the province of aceh; - b5-0311/2003 by mr wuori, mr mckenna and mr maes, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on the situation in the indonesian provinces of aceh and papua.
commission. - mr president, i would like to divide my speech into two parts: the first part on aceh and the second on papua. as regards asean, the commission is one of the four co-chairs of the tokyo conference (japan, the united states, the european union and the world bank), together with the presidency. this conference encouraged the signing of a ceasefire agreement between the indonesian government and the aceh rebels, based - and i stress this - on the territorial integrity of indonesia. the agreement to cease hostilities is the most comprehensive attempt to settle a conflict that has lasted 26 years and claimed the lives of some 12 000 people, the vast majority of them innocent civilians. the commission, through its rapid response mechanism, contributed eur 2.3 million to the deployment of 50 international observers in aceh province. unfortunately, the situation on the ground has since changed. on 17 and 18 may, the commission and other co-chairs took part in eleven-hour talks in tokyo between the indonesian government and the free asia movement (gam) to try to save the faltering ceasefire. unfortunately, the talks failed, leading the indonesian president to impose martial law and launch a very large military operation. the commission has since been able to confirm what the honourable members have said. the situation is very serious, the information we are receiving is more than worrying, the human rights violations are serious. we are also very concerned about the demands made to international and non-governmental relief organizations to leave the province and the military censorship of media outlets covering the situation on the ground or events in the province. mr president, the commission believes that a military operation will not bring lasting peace to aceh, even if it is supposedly carried out with the best of intentions. this is why we firmly believe that the keys to peace continue to lie in good governance, justice, respect for human rights, the democratic process and development. we note the statement by the coordinating minister for political and security affairs, mr yudhoyono, that his government will respect the geneva convention and humanitarian law in aceh province. but the international community should call on the indonesian government to ensure that ngos and international humanitarian agencies have access to the province and are safe, because this is a prerequisite for the rapid and transparent delivery of the assistance that the citizens, the most affected populations, desperately need. we are convinced that there is no other option than to resume the dialogue around a negotiating table. the declaration by the indonesian government that it remains open to negotiations confirms this view. we therefore encourage the government and the gam to propose as soon as possible a framework for the resumption of these negotiations. the commission, like the other promoters of this initiative, will remain prepared to facilitate this process by any means possible. mr president, i now come to the second item on the agenda, the situation in papua. you are probably aware that the special act on the autonomy of papua was passed by the indonesian parliament in 2001. in 2002, following the conclusions of a study conducted jointly by indonesian and european experts, the commission mobilised funds from its rapid reaction mechanism to support the implementation of the law by the indonesian authorities, by placing an expert on decentralisation and indonesia at their disposal. and i strongly believe that this initiative was in strict respect of the territorial integrity of indonesia by the european union and that it had the full agreement and cooperation of the indonesian authorities. in mid-2003, the commission proposed technical assistance to the provincial government of papua and the implementation of the special autonomy law. the launch of this programme has not yet been approved by the indonesian government. the commission hopes that only technical reasons explain this delay. the commission took note of the presidential decree of 27 january 2003 establishing three new provinces in papua and that the indonesian parliament, which is required to confirm the creation of these provinces, has not yet taken a decision. we are nevertheless very concerned about the consequences that the application of this decree could have on the implementation of the special law on the autonomy of the province of papua. we remain convinced that the path opened up by the special law remains the one the indonesian authorities must follow. the commission calls on the indonesian government to implement the special law and maintains its offer of assistance in this respect. at the same time, the commission reaffirms its support for the territorial integrity of indonesia and remains attentive to the respect of human rights in this province, as in all other provinces of indonesia.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
- doc. b5-0297/2003 by mr eriksson, mr bertinotti, mr boudjenah and mr morgantini, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the arrest of aung san suu kyi in burma/myanmar; - b5-0303/2003 by mr veltroni, mr kinnock, mr van den berg and mr schulz, on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists, on the arrest of aung san suu kyi (burma); - b5-0305/2003 by mr van orden, mr deva, mr mann, mr maij-weggen and mr sacrédeus, on behalf of the ppe-de group, on burma; - b5-0306/2003 by mr van den bos, on behalf of the eldr group, on burma; - b5-0310/2003 by mrs mckenna and mr isler béguin, on behalf of the green group, on burma.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that yesterday, 17 june, was the 20th anniversary of the arrest of enzo tortora. i think that name doesn't mean much to many of my colleagues, but it certainly does to italians. he was one of the best-known television personalities, elected to this parliament on the lists of marco pannella's radicals. he was acquitted, after many years of legal wrangling, with the full sentence: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would just like to recall his civil battles and his figure here so that the memory of him is not forgotten in this house. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the convention ended last friday with a glass of champagne for everyone, but the work is not really over yet: the convention has yet to meet, it has yet to deliberate. i was hoping to hear from our representatives today what they still intend to do in this convention and i really urge them not to relax, to think that everything is done now, that nothing can be changed, and that moreover we have won. we must still achieve the maximum now, before the intergovernmental conference opens; we know - as mr brok has told us - that we will have to fight so that governments, freed from the noisy presence of parliamentarians and giscard d'estaing, do not get their hands on a constitution which we are not enthusiastic about today, also because it does not meet the expectations of the majority of citizens and, i believe, also of the majority of the members of the convention. i do not agree with those who think that the pseudo-constitution we have today is the best that could be achieved and i believe that it was a serious strategic error on the part of giscard and the praesidium to accept from the outset that the convention was contaminated by the intergovernmental method it wanted to overcome. it was only during the last days of the convention that it was finally realised that to accept the conditions of the most negative governments would risk the failure of the whole enterprise and the support of national and european deputies as well as the much maligned commission was sought, working in team with the presidents and chairmen of the convention. this action was, however, late and ineffective, because it was not built up in months of work but improvised at the last second. history is not made with "ifs" and "buts", but since everything is not over, we believe that these last weeks should be used to improve the compromise reached, taking advantage of the mistakes made and trying not to repeat them. we shall try to put the greatest possible pressure on four issues which we consider to be of the utmost importance: firstly, it is absolutely essential to do away with the requirement for unanimity for the revision of the constitution and to introduce the ratification power of the european parliament. mr méndez de vigo, we are not and will not be a constituent parliament because, at present, we cannot not only ratify the constitution but we cannot even give our opinion on the convening of the intergovernmental conference, which we can do today. so we risk losing power on this issue, not gaining it. secondly, we must work hard to extend the role of the european parliament in key areas such as trade policy, cooperation in criminal and judicial matters, the definition of the financial perspective: the game is not yet completely closed in this sector. it is unthinkable that the european union should continue to participate in fundamental negotiations, such as those of the world trade organisation, without any control by the european parliament and national parliaments. thirdly, it is incomprehensible that in the 21st century, after chernobyl, after the majority of the current members of the european union have decided to leave nuclear, there is an explicit reference in the european constitution to the promotion of nuclear energy: this is a mistake that could cost public opinion, a mistake that can be corrected today. finally, i do not believe that the mere introduction of the charter of fundamental rights in part ii of the constitution is particularly significant for european citizens and legal residents without a corresponding and decisive extension of the possibilities of appeal to the court of justice, especially in the field of criminal and judicial cooperation. this is our schedule from now until the last meeting of the convention, scheduled for july 10: we are therefore looking for alliances inside and outside the convention, hoping that president giscard and his praesidium will be able to guide it to an outcome that is within their reach today. when the intergovernmental conference opens it may be too late. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i speak on behalf of the socialist group, but i think i must also express some views and concerns as chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs. the committee i chair, and parliament in general, strongly wanted the convention and pointed the way to a european constitution. this road has been opened: the convention has succeeded in doing its job, and we are very pleased about that. when we are called upon shortly to express our opinion on the convening of the intergovernmental conference, as provided for in the treaty in force, we will also give our assessment of the draft approved by the convention. we can do this even better after we have seen the text, which still needs to be improved, as mr brok and other colleagues have said, in parts iii and iv of the draft. i am deeply pleased, as i have already said, to be able to acknowledge and thank the efforts of our representatives in the convention, and particularly in the praesidium, to support the positions of the european parliament. the draft adopted by consensus is, of course, a meeting point for different positions: some of the proposals put forward by our representatives have met with strong resistance, which we heard echoing in this house just now. our judgment cannot therefore be triumphalist or uncritical, nor can it be free from concern, especially in two respects: first, there is a risk of upsetting the institutional balance, which is implicit in the creation of a new figure at the top of the union, that of the full-time president of the european council. the constitutional committee of this parliament was clearly opposed to this, proposing alternative or compromise solutions, but these were not accepted. second point: the european council in strasbourg on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. we hope that the intergovernmental conference will go further: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the convention. we must, however, be clear about the uncertainties facing the future of the union. to be critical and vigilant is neither destructive nor pessimistic, but serves to give new impetus to the process of european integration and unity. altiero spinelli taught us that . without his criticism of the single act, there would have been no progress at maastricht and amsterdam. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the convention has just finished its work and already several member states and candidate countries are beginning to distance themselves from it, to make reservations or vetoes on this or that point. it is the price, unfortunately, paid for a job which is difficult and in some places even ineffective, but which is always tied to the lowest common denominator and therefore subject to constant mediation. every little shock to the system is delayed until 2007 or 2009 and i really wonder what our fellow citizens will understand if they are actually asked to ratify its contents. what we believe, mr president, is missing and is likely to continue to be missing is a high view of the imperative need to innovate decisively the functioning and the competences of a genuine united states of europe. i have the impression that, far from being a founding act, what will remain of the convention's work after the igc's filter is in line with amsterdam, if not even nice.
mr president, i think that there is a certain satisfaction in each of us when we are part of a historic moment, and this is certainly a historic moment because, beyond the positions and disagreements we have heard today, i fully agree with what mr méndez de vigo said. we have succeeded, for the first time in history, in combining sovereignty with the protection of rights, moving away from the concept of demos that we have known and launching europe into a future perspective whose borders will be in our hands alone. of course, we probably find some imperfections, but since in the preamble a lot has been said, including thucydides, i would like to remind colleagues of what the ancient greek thinkers said: the story is never perfect because if it were, it wouldn't have followed. i shall not go into the substance of the comment on the text of the treaty, but i shall confine myself to a remark and a regret. one of the things we have to take care of as a parliament is the unanimity rule in decisions. we have obtained a text which certainly takes the community method and spirit to new heights, and since the constitutional treaty, with all its many facets, is for us a crucial instrument for enhancing european competitiveness, the criterion of unanimity in the europe of 15 has already proved difficult and perhaps even impossible in many delicate moments and cases. however, a unanimous decision by 25 may be highly penalising, especially if economic or fiscal proposals are at the heart of the decisions. i fear that a veto hypothesis, which is still in the air, will end up being a suicide weapon, will end up making the european area, which is in fact the largest or one of the largest common markets in the world, a mere sum of national interests: i hope that is what we must carefully avoid. i regret that i was somewhat surprised to see the debate on the preamble to decide whether the religious spirit, that is, christianity, should also be included among the constituent factors of our common identity. i would like to remind you that the european identity is an experience of emancipatory suffering, not without tragic aspects in our history, which have always led to redemption and growth. i think this, from a spiritual point of view, is one of the components that make christianity great and make christianity a universal reference point: i would like to think about this further.
mr president, there is no doubt that the road map is a hope to be held on to without losing any clarity of political judgment and of the facts that are happening daily in palestine and israel; there is no doubt that the european union as a whole and the tenacious and passionate work of special envoy moratinos have played an important role in defining the plan and in accompanying the palestinian authority in undertaking the process for reforms set out in the roadmap, which, as we know, does not solve all the issues but is certainly important; egypt also played an active role. it is essential, however, that the whole quartet be involved in and guarantee the negotiations: the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. at the same time, it is essential to accompany all the stages of the negotiations without making the same mistakes as in the oslo accords, when, after the great handshakes, the two sides were left alone, with such different power relations: so instead of peace, violence and oppression have prevailed. everyone is aware, unfortunately with the complacency and subordination of some european leaders, of the domination of the us administration, as well as the tendency of the israeli government to underestimate europe, russia and the un as interlocutors, considered unfairly unbalanced towards the palestinians: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet ready to take a decision. in fact, international law is not binding on some of these countries. if that were the case, however, if the law were respected, the palestinian-israeli question would have been solved a long time ago, at least since the plo chose to coexist with the israeli state in 1988 in algiers and to have its own state in the occupied territories in 1977. the imbalance, the symmetry and the condition between palestinians and israelis, between occupied and occupiers, are not trivial things; indeed, it is essential to reiterate that the occupant is the israeli army: it is not the palestinian authority that builds settlements or holds palestinians prisoner. the outrageous, totally outrageous acts of terrorism against the civilian population are carried out by palestinian extremist forces, not by an armed army. and i do not hereby absolve the palestinian authority of errors and weaknesses harmful to a just peace. the road map as a possibility of peace for both peoples is, once again, a challenge and a hope, but if we really want palestinians and israelis to live in peace and security, we must certainly ask the palestinian authority to look for every way to stop terrorist acts and abu mazen, with the support of president arafat, is very firmly seeking the path of dialogue to stop the violence and not to fall into a civil war but also to ask sharon very strongly to respect the first stages of the road map and to stop the targeted assassinations, which seem to be designed to provoke terrorist reactions. sharon said that you cannot dominate three and a half million palestinians with military occupation. and so, from words to deeds, as gideon levi, a commentator for ha'aretz, says: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further complicated by the fact that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not yet as bad as it was in the former yugoslavia. this will strengthen the peace. there is also a monstrosity, which commissioner patten also mentioned: the wall, the wall of separation, of apartheid, of territorial annexations; eight meters high, 364 kilometers long, barbed wire, electronic controls. the wall is annexation of territory: 30 water wells confiscated, 15 palestinian villages cut off from arable land. sharon gave orders to work even at night for the construction; and if 200 miles isn't enough, the banks of the jordan river must be fenced off. we must use the instruments of pressure we have to enable the two peoples and two states to be established. we support the call by kofi annan, supported by the french foreign minister, for an international peacekeeping force to prevent palestinian and israeli deaths. it's too late!
mr president, mr high representative, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is an ideology - correct me if i am wrong - that unites us all: the goal from camp david to oslo, to the roadmap, what is it? the idea of creating, in a territory smaller than normandy or belgium, which is all there is to say - i am speaking, of course, of square kilometres, for i would not dare to make any further allusions - two states: two independent states, let it be clear, not one american and the other russian! now, mr high representative, the structural foreign policy we are pursuing there is the exact opposite of what we have been pursuing for 50 years, to get there one day - for charity's sake, you all do not go through the antechamber of the brain because you are sane, while i am a bit touchy, in the sense that i am waiting for that moment - to be able to be citizens of the european union without paying the tax of being citizens of perhaps this italy, or that france, or that england. for god's sake, no, your problem is the states! we have to settle things with the states, with another palestinian state. it does not matter that there may be another, the jordanian state which is already a palestinian state bigger, stronger and more democratic than your palestinian state can be imagined to be. your, please! there is the problem of lebanon, but even there you only talk about the state, and it does not matter that it is a cover for syria and everything that is more vomitable in that area, in mediterranean switzerland. so, mr solana, commissioner patten, i know that evil is also here, first of all, in our parliament: we must fight the anti-fascists and anti-communists, altiero spinelli, rossi, schuman, those who have conceived of europe not as a geographical fact but as the place of law, torah, the book, democracy, against the national bureaucracies, inadequate containers of freedom, liberation and well-being. and now you're busy imposing the high-profile roadmap! i was in jerusalem with our colleagues and i said: the roadmap? a day, a week, a month? two palestinian states? so many foreign ministers, so many thieving and corrupt ministers? yes, thieves and corrupt as many french, italians, germans, british and americans are. but corruption is something else: it's corruption of the flesh, of liberty, of right: we don't offer it, we don't seek it. would the high commissioner be so kind as to tell us a little about our european army finally deployed in the congo? it's about time! and who's running it? give it to the heirs of focard! i repeat, from the heirs of focard! we entrust the guarantee of peace in that place to those who through decolonization have created an abominable massacre, worse than during colonialism. congratulations to you, mr president! congratulations to you, colleagues! high representative and commissioner, good luck! we need it. i expect for myself, for an israeli, for a palestinian, the right to have a citizenship that is not your own, our prisons. we want to be free in law and in freedom!
first of all, i would like to thank the commissioner and the high representative for their presence in the house and for their reports. i would like to begin by making a few comments on what i have heard, albeit briefly because of the limited time available. first of all: i do not think that the fundamental, priority, initial point, for those who have a political message, is the reconstruction of the nap: it is important, but it cannot be the first point of the agenda, otherwise it becomes partisan. it must be put together with the other points, and it cannot be mentioned by the commissioner as the first point. secondly, i do not think - and i am referring to mr barón crespo - that we the israelis should be looking for them, but since we want to be the interlocutors, we must be looking for them. thirdly, i do not believe - and i am addressing this to mr morgantini - that we should be the ones to determine what rights are, when we see that rights are being trampled on by those who throw bombs and kill a seven-year-old child on the other side. what i think we can do as the european union and at this moment it is important, especially at this moment when abu mazen and sharon continue to talk, even though there are actions and reactions on one side and on the other is to legitimize the role of abu mazen: at this point, the more we legitimize him, the more we can create the conditions for relative peace. on the other hand, i take the opportunity of the presence of the iranian delegation to address an invitation to iran, so that, precisely because of its ancient history and its role in the middle east, it can recognize the state of israel: the european union is the only institution in the world which can do so, if necessary through the european union, but it must recognise it. this would also be important and fundamental for the recognition of human rights, for economic development, and therefore also political development, within their own state; this would certainly help to make possible a genuine and lasting peace process within the middle east.
mr president, the road map is for us, however, a possibility for peace which must be pursued beyond possible sympathies or antipathies; calling, above all, for an end to the fighting, terrorism, suicides and targeted killings; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force. that is why we believe that the role of the international community is essential to the plan, but we also believe that the european union must play a stronger and more decisive role in middle east policy, not to oppose the united states but precisely to avoid constantly playing the ostrich and to have its own foreign policy. this is the challenge of the convention, and we are not quite clear about it yet. the challenge is to build a political europe which can tackle the powerful, modern issues of democracy, peace, freedom and development for all peoples, irrespective of race, colour or religion, on a global, planetary scale.
mr president, commissioner, mr high representative, it seems to us that to the many enemies of peace we know, we must add improvisation and presumption which, when exercised from high institutional positions, can have devastating effects: i am referring to the recent visit to israel by the italian prime minister, silvio berlusconi, and the fact that in ten days' time mr berlusconi will take up his duties as president of the council here in brussels. i would remind you that to a sharon who was proud and clever to welcome him to the only indivisible capital of the state of israel, and who imposed a very biased interpretation of the road map, berlusconi responded by refusing to meet arafat and abu mazen. on this point, my view is in line with the words of foreign minister de villepin: mr berlusconi has not fulfilled the european position, which is the wise one, namely to talk to everyone. i would therefore ask you, mr president, to remind mr berlusconi, not as the head of the italian government but as the future head of the council and representative of a european institution, that the task and the objective of the european institutions is not to show and show friendship to the peoples but to pursue a single goal, which is peace.
madam president, i too welcomed the communication by commissioner lamy, who is well aware that the future of the textile and clothing industries, which are already in difficulty because of the appreciation of the dollar, will depend on the choices made in the wto. the removal of quantitative barriers should also offer a growth opportunity to small and medium-sized enterprises operating in europe's textile districts. these firms must be able to expand their interests into new markets and to imagine new synergies with countries entering the international market. the expiry of the multifibre arrangement, however, sets out a scenario of more intense and concentrated competition in mature markets. it is not, of course, a question of calling for protectionist measures but, on the contrary, for more open and transparent markets, as mr ferrer has argued. the globalisation of markets will inevitably lead to the decentralisation of many traditional activities to developing countries with lower production costs. the fight against poverty and the spread of prosperity must be promoted by the abolition of customs barriers, but it cannot ignore the fact that employment in many european industries is threatened by social and environmental dumping rather than by economic competition. i would therefore like to recall some of the points raised by the commissioner. there is a need to improve access for community products, generally of higher quality, to third markets, which are in many cases protected by high duties and non-tariff barriers; the liberalization process must be accompanied by a guarantee of reciprocity, as the commissioner rightly said. the textile and clothing industry must be protected from unfair competition: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not damaged. finally, also on the basis of experience gained in other fields, consideration should be given to the possibility of introducing a quality label for textiles and clothing, both to guarantee consumers and to curb illegal import flows that threaten the growth of the economy and the fairness of international trade.
- mr president, with all due respect to mr leinen, i have rarely seen a project as badly screwed up as the one concerning european political parties. it is not by chance that the debate is held at 10 p.m. in secret. we are now sharing €8 million and we are doing so, of course, in complete discretion. finally, sharing is a way of talking. we are about 20 colleagues here and amongst these 20 there are at least 6 or 7 for whom this money is not intended. we're not sure why. we are all members of the european parliament, elected like everyone else, and we are not worthy of this funding of political parties. mr karas has made a democratic plea for this great european project and it is a pity that the party from which he comes in his country will not receive this money. perhaps you know that, mr. karas. is this democracy? they are chosen people, and they are forbidden to live. however, they do exist, and they are, mr karas, your allies at the austrian level, but at the european level they do not exist, they are not entitled to funding. the leinen report is a strange one, and the consequences of it are strange. besides, we're talking about it in private. where are the european political parties, mr onesta? do you know them? can we join one of these european political parties we are talking about? i can join my national parties in my country, you can join your national parties, the french greens. we can join the transnational radical party, and some of the members are registered there, but we cannot join these so-called european political parties which are going to receive a lot of money for, precisely, the meetings of the amalgamations of european political parties. we have seen, for example, how these european political parties behaved during the gulf crisis. the party of european socialists, hats off! good for the union on the gulf position! the same applies to the european people's party. is there a single activist in these parties? all this, ladies and gentlemen, is very lame. i am happy that a small effort is being made to bail out the party confederations, but in relation to the european ideal, this is not very fair, not very dignified. moreover, with other colleagues from parties who - we do not know why - will not receive money, although they are represented in parliament, they defend ideas there, they are elected by millions of people, we intend to bring an action before the court of justice and we will see who will win! i would like to conclude by saying a few words to mr leinen. you had intervened vehemently to ensure that the commission was the one to manage this money, that a general directorate was to deal with the status of the parties. the council has said 'neit', and it seems that you have tabled an amendment, so that it is no longer clear who will give money to the european political parties you like so much. it is not parliament or the commission. it is a bit strange, though, your compromise amendment. i wonder who's gonna give that money? perhaps the court of justice, when we bring our action and perhaps, moreover, we will be seeking damages? i say this to make fun of you, but also to let you know that the battle is not over. i think that this report has very serious flaws which deserve to be remedied and we shall see at this level whether we are right in saying, regardless of the content, that it is not right to consider financing two thirds or three quarters of this house, leaving aside the remaining third or quarter.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this recommendation for the second reading on the council's common position on the proposal to amend the seveso directive deserves a brief flashback. in a delicate context of dramatic accidents affecting the chemical industry, but above all the people living around these sites, and the environment, the commission has presented to parliament and the council its proposal to amend directive 96/82 of 9 december 1996 laying down rules on the control of the risks of accidents caused by dangerous substances: the commission has proposed a proposal which has the merit of being based on very thorough scientific work and of looking at this delicate issue in a constructive way. in the first reading i explained, together with other colleagues, the reasons why the european parliament should send a strong signal. my approach, which i confirm today, is to ensure that accidents never happen again, as far as possible, while ensuring the safety of citizens and workers in these plants and, of course, protecting the environment. the council reached a common position which took up substantially many of parliament's concerns, but some areas of concern remain, as follows: first, the inclusion of mining and landfills, on which the committee on the environment decided to table the amendments at first reading, namely the inclusion, within the scope of the directive, of all types of preparation or processing of dangerous substances at these sites, not just chemical or thermal processing, as envisaged by the commission, and, secondly, the clarification that we are only talking about active installations. we are aware that the commission has very recently launched a proposal for a specific directive on the management of waste from mining activities, the details of which will have to be decided with parliament at the appropriate time, but until then there is still a legislative deficit which, in view of the recent accidents which have alarmed public opinion, we cannot tolerate. i do not, however, exclude the possibility that, in the conciliation procedure, the development of the text of this new mining directive may facilitate the search for agreement on this point. question number two: the training of staff. here again, in agreement with the commission, we have proposed measures for the provision of emergency management training for all staff, including those in subcontracting companies. it is indeed appropriate to provide for appropriate measures not only for the handling of dangerous substances but also for the management of emergency situations, in order to contain potential damage as much as possible and to ensure the safety of workers to the maximum. i do not think it is necessary, as rapporteur, to include the list of training measures in the notification provided for in article 6 of the directive, which is why i reiterate the vote against amendment no 3 which i already voted against at first reading. the third point is spatial planning. the council has already taken into account parliament's concern to lay the foundations for the definition, at european level, of the methodological criteria necessary to assess the compatibility between the sites concerned and the areas at risk, including through financial support from the union. however, in view of the wide diversity of rules, territorial situations, competences and responsibilities which characterise this aspect of safety, i.e. location from an urban point of view, i believe that it is necessary to refer to the principle of subsidiarity and to leave it to the member states to decide on the minimum distances: that is why i have asked for a split vote on amendment no 6, voting in favour of only the first part of the amendment. the committee believes that the graphic display of areas surrounding installations at risk of accidents is an effective and understandable means for all concerned citizens, who have a right to greater clarity. the rapporteur has therefore adopted the wording of the european commission in the amended proposal for a directive. finally, the committee on the environment has proposed again the differentiation of potassium nitrate with new thresholds, in order to avoid farmers using a form of potassium nitrate which would not be classified as a fuel falling within the scope of the directive. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, these are the main points. it is clear that we are moving towards a conciliation procedure: the council was not able to reach agreement on a compromise package and, to be honest, the honourable member did not seem particularly interested in reaching such an agreement with parliament. however, i remain confident that a constructive debate can lead to a solution that maximises the safety of these plants. i would like to thank all my colleagues on the committee on the environment and the services of the european commission, who have been particularly helpful and cooperative.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0176/2003), on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on additives for use in animal nutrition [15776/2/2002 - c5-0132/2003 - 2002/0073 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs keppelhoff-wiechert).
- this debate is over. the vote will take place at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0171/2003) by mr lisi, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on a community action plan for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean within the framework of the common fisheries policy (com (2002) 535 - c5-0623/2002 - 2002/2281 (ini)).
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have welcomed with great interest the commission's communication on the union's action plan for fisheries in the mediterranean. this communication responds to a request that has been repeatedly raised and is entirely legitimate, both because of the importance of the mediterranean fisheries economy in the european context and because of the specific nature of fishing activities in this region. the regulation on fisheries in the mediterranean in force since 1626 has so far survived only a series of derogations which, while they have helped to save what can be saved, as in the case of special fisheries, have also highlighted the inadequacy of the union's approach to the mediterranean question. we all know that the application of the principles of the common fisheries policy in the mediterranean in any one way is counterproductive, and sometimes even harmful, if we consider the socioeconomic consequences of such application. i therefore welcome the commission's efforts to impose the specific character of the mediterranean and the sustainability of fisheries as new criteria for the future action plan. the positive aspects of the communication are considerable, for example: the delegation of coastal fishing to the member states, the involvement of fishermen's associations, the dialogue with third countries, the first consideration of the phenomenon of sport fishing. however, it seems to the rapporteur and to our committee that, after a proper analysis of the sector and its specific features, carried out by the commission with regard to solutions, the classic instruments of the cfp, of the common policy, are being used too easily, without any particular effort of imagination. in the mediterranean, we need innovative and coherent action, which proceeds in stages and is not afraid to adjust the approach whenever the need arises. i would now like to draw your attention briefly to a few points in my report: first, the union's systemic and multilateral approach must be a reality and not just a wish. the involvement of fishermen's associations must also mean promoting the experience gained at local level for responsible fisheries management, experience that demonstrates the effectiveness of selective gear, the effectiveness of alternative measures to fishing effort management, such as temporary closure; rigid and automatic transposition of cfp management mechanisms, such as minimum sizes or tacs, risks frustrating the efforts of fishermen and may prove counterproductive; in addition, the early introduction of inadequate technical measures risks rendering sterile the multilateral dialogue which the commission intends to engage with third countries in the mediterranean area for the sustainable management of the whole basin. what we are asking is that negotiations with the countries which, like us, fish in the mediterranean sea, be started as soon as possible, so that we can present the results of these talks at the next interministerial conference on mediterranean fisheries, which will be held in venice in november. a second point is to emphasize the key role of research in supporting an effective fisheries policy. we know that the specific nature of the mediterranean has always been a problem in this respect, but we must insist on scientific research which can be applied to the action plan. it is in this sense that we propose a mediterranean research model based on local data collection networks. there is also the structural impact of the action plan, which we believe is being underestimated by the commission. we are particularly disappointed with the part devoted to this aspect. we in the committee propose that you consider innovative support measures, for example in this case, in particular the measure extending the de minimis rule to the fisheries sector. it should not be forgotten that in the mediterranean, fishing is 80% artisanal, highly dependent on the territory, whose socioeconomic balance is often close to subsistence. finally, mr president, there is the reasoning on the environment proposed by the commission: the commission's proposal is not a good one, but it is a good one. in a region where fishing is strictly coastal, the key to sustainable sustainability is in any case the integrated management of coastal areas, on which the commission does not place enough emphasis. president. - ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the members of the committee on fisheries for their very useful suggestions, which have finally allowed us to reach unanimous agreement on this report.
mr president, the community action plan for fisheries in the mediterranean, presented by the commission, is an important first step towards the sustainable management of the sector. but these are good intentions which, although not all of them fully agreeable, should be implemented with a certain degree of urgency. some of the points made in the report by mr lisi, which i welcome, are particularly important. the commission rightly believes that one of the essential elements to be borne in mind in the context of a sustainable approach to fishing in the mediterranean basin is the specific nature of the mediterranean itself. that's right! i would remind you that in the mediterranean the main areas of reproduction and re-population of many - not all - fish species are concentrated in coastal areas. i can therefore only welcome, on behalf of the uen group, the european commission's proposal to delegate the management of coastal fisheries to the member states. i would also point out that another characteristic of the mediterranean sea - a relatively small and warm sea compared with the northern seas - is that it is difficult to create fish stocks of a particular species. it is for this reason - and here i am dissociating myself from the commission's proposal - that i believe the fisheries system in the mediterranean is not suited to the effective application of tacs and quotas. the commission's analysis is supportive of the strengthening and improvement of scientific research in the mediterranean, as well as the involvement of the categories in the strategic choices of the fisheries sector: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to point out, however, the excellent proposal to admit the fisheries organisations to the eventual and desirable mediterranean consultative council. in conclusion, and while remaining within the specific context of the mediterranean, i would like to emphasise a very important and vital aspect for the economy of the sector, an aspect that is certainly valid for italy: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in fishery products, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, is a step in the right direction.
- i hope your vocal cords recover quickly, mr stevenson. since we are talking about fishing, i would like to make a suggestion. i'm no doctor, but i think for the next two or three days you should do what the fish do: keep quiet. then you will be cured! (laughter)
- this debate is over. the vote will take place at 11 a.m. we adjourn until the time of the vote. (the sitting was suspended at 10.10 a.m. and resumed at 11 a.m.)
mr president, less than a month after the visit to this house by the president of the algerian republic, mr bouteflika, who was supposed to strengthen the ties between the european union and that country, a serious event has taken place: the algerian ambassador to the united nations has formalised the request for the expulsion from the country of the representative of the united nations development programme, undp. for its part, the world bank decided to suspend its programmes in the country until the 2004 presidential elections. i would ask you, mr president, to send a letter of reaction to the president of the republic and the algerian government, a letter of solidarity to the secretary-general of the united nations and to the person concerned. i would then ask the commission to coordinate with the united nations a reflection on the situation in that country, in relation to judicial reforms and, in particular, the earthquake. i hope, mr president, that you will accept my request.
mr president, i rise to speak on this report because parliament is finally addressing the question of immunities, also in view of the specific nature of the request made by the national authorities. in the case of mr cohn-bendit, we decided not to waive his immunity for a very specific reason, although, at the very least, for mr cohn-bendit, the fact that this process had proceeded might have been interesting. for our parliament, on the other hand, the fact that this case was brought up many years after the fact and that it can be objectively suggested or made to believe that behind this late acknowledgement by the german authorities of a possible guilt of cohn-bendit there may be the suspicion of fumus persecutionis, has justified this position of our committee, which i and my radical colleagues share. i am saying this in perspective, mr president, also of other cases because, while it is true that in some countries we have narrowed the margin of immunity, strictly limiting it to the scope of the political activities of each member, it is also true that the margin of political activities cannot be limited solely to what is expressed in the house, at least as regards those political and legal systems which provide for a wide immunity for the member. until we have a single statute for members of the european parliament, until mr rothley's line becomes a law of our union, i hope that, from this point of view, the examination of these texts will lead the intergovernmental conference to accept the idea that the statute for members of the european parliament should be included in the next european constitution, with a specific reference to it, and that specific immunity and prerogatives should be granted to members of the european parliament. it is not disputed that the cases which justify the political nature of the act may fall into one case or another. for example, as you know, the case of mr dupuis, who distributed doses of hashish to denounce italian legislation on drugs, will soon be brought before you and a case will therefore be opened. in conclusion, mr president, i share mr maccormick's view and i think that this will be the way parliament will apply its case law to subsequent cases.
mr president, as a member of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights i naturally agree with what the rapporteur has just said. i would like to draw your attention, mr president, and that of the house to one more point which the rapporteur, not being of italian origin, could not bring to light. mr musotto is already on trial in italy for this incident. in that circumstance, and in many similar ones, a principle is omitted: it is based on a misinterpretation of what is a regulation. the treaties provide that each of us is subject to the laws of our own country and therefore to the immunities accorded to national parliamentarians. but in our case, we do not take into account - or someone, in the case of mr musotto, has not taken into account - and that is why i am pointing out, mr president - that the immunity of this parliament - not of its members but of this parliament - is autonomous and independent of national facts. no one asked this parliament for any authorization - not that court, not that prosecutor who put mr musotto under investigation - to: nothing was requested and nothing was communicated. mr musotto asked to be informed of his situation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr president, it is essential that the result of tomorrow's vote be declared in another place, at that prosecutor's office, because it is essential not only that it be clear to everyone but that - given the fact that the term 'immunity' is so much in play in my country - it be declared not only in the specific case but as a matter of principle. this parliament has an independent life, as is now the practice, as is now the established case law since this parliament has existed, since this parliament has been elected by universal suffrage: too many people forget that. i therefore ask, mr president, that not only the judgment of this house be communicated to those who are entitled to it, but that a clear, unambiguous and unambiguous principle be established, which certainly does not belong to the logic of certain courts to this day.
the rapporteur. mr president, we are facing a reform these days and we will therefore be voting on it on wednesday, which, given the interest it has aroused and the debate it has generated, is certainly one of the crucial steps of this legislature and one of the crucial steps in opening up the markets and in implementing the internal market in a european way. we are now going to the second reading, having overcome a number of difficulties we have had in the past with the translations and with the amendments. we have had a long discussion, both directly and indirectly, with the commission. i thank commissioner bolkestein and all his staff for tackling this matter at the outset. we then tackled it together in many circumstances, outside this house, outside parliament but within the institutions, to reach a conclusion that was the best possible. i thank all those who have been useful by their interest, by their contribution, by the amendments they felt they should have tabled. it is a major and important reform which comes to the end of its parliamentary term after a period lasting almost the whole of this legislature. simplification, adaptation to technological and social developments, completion of the internal market were and are the imperatives that have moved this parliament. the dialectic, the comparison, the different political position and the different national interests stimulated and guided the conclusions. the value of goods, services and works in the eu is estimated at some €1.4 trillion a year, which shows that this legislation is at the heart of the eu economy. and we are writing general and fundamental rules in which the national rules of detail will move. general rules which must contain principles which are useful to all and not to a few, useful to the community and not to the lobby of a party; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the rules for tendering cannot and must not differ according to the amount: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. the thresholds currently allow only about one eighth of the amount i have mentioned to be used in european competitions. the rest escapes national or regional regulation. i therefore agree that the thresholds should be abolished. however, since this was not possible, a criterion was proposed, which already existed indirectly, according to which the guiding principles of the legislation must always be respected, even by the autonomous territorial legislation. it is necessary that the procedures available are up to date and that the use of ever more rapidly evolving technologies is allowed and codified. contracting entities will thus benefit from the proposals made, using electronic systems not only for the management of calls for tender and the receipt of tenders but also for the actual auction. it is, of course, called for the latter to be limited to the purchase of codified and standardised materials. the aim is to enhance and change the freedom of organisation of the firm by leaving open the possibility of subcontracting for that part of the work which, if identified, can be entrusted to firms for which the main contractor is responsible. in order not to complicate participation in the tender, the partner should be identified after the entrustment. the complex problem - and this has been a very controversial point - of designing and executing in a single context, which is appreciated and desirable for particular categories of procurement, cannot be a rigid rule. the separation between services and work is as obvious and natural as their unification can be, if properly justified. respect for this principle also strengthens qualitative competition, which would otherwise run the risk of being crushed in an exclusively economic and technological environment, which is also the sole property of the undertaking and therefore not always favourable to the contractor. the rapporteur's proposals are based on this principle. it is important to bear in mind that we are dealing with a subject which has a strong and exclusive economic value and as such cannot and should not contain rules and principles which are the subject of specific legislation, such as specific social and environmental requirements. environmental and social matters have specifically defined and definable routes and are therefore made mandatory in other forms and in other areas. however, certain principles are provided for and proposed within the standard, with particular reference to the respect of the needs of disadvantaged groups and the legislation on safety at work. the environment - the great disease of our time - is also the subject of extensive attention. furthermore, any exaggeration in this area is not desirable. the award of the most economically advantageous price cannot be done without a weighting criterion clearly defined in the call for tenders, since otherwise there would be a discretion in the subsequent allocation of the parameters which in the past has created so many legal problems throughout the community. the confidentiality of information which, depending on the procedures chosen, is provided to the contracting authority by the parties concerned will be protected and guaranteed by precise rules. there are controversial views on in-house procurement: the commission's proposal to reserve to an undertaking of which the contracting authority is a member, even if it is an autonomous legal entity, the right to award contracts without a call for tenders, is strongly opposed by the representatives of the categories of producers, and the rapporteur agrees with this view. it was proposed to extend the grounds for exclusion in the event of convictions for further serious offences against a competing undertaking for bankruptcy, unfair behaviour, failure to respect collective labour agreements, drug dealing. finally, it was proposed to set up an independent agency to ensure control mechanisms for procurement with the member states. while not prejudging the possibility of bringing legal proceedings, it is hoped that this agency will be able to verify the procedures followed and may also cancel an award which is found to be non-compliant. in conclusion, mr president, the content of the rules under discussion, because of their economic importance and the employment, social, environmental and economic implications they entail, can be described without a shadow of a doubt as fundamental to the organization of modern society. different political positions, differing views on political and/or bureaucratic grounds mean that a broadly shared path is not foreseeable. the rejection and referral to committee, or the conciliation as the final act of legislation is certainly not easy, but it is foreseeable and desirable. all this is for the good of the union and in the interest of an internal market which must be increasingly consolidated and transparent. the vote tomorrow will decide the democratic course which we must all follow.
mr president, the conclusions of the thessaloniki summit on immigration represent a positive development, where important decisions are being taken on the management of the external borders and the policy of returning illegal immigrants, also from the point of view of the european union's financial commitment. however, on this very serious problem there remains, so to speak, a generic, endemic slowness on the part of the european institutions in facing the challenge posed by the activities of the criminal mafia organizations which manage the impure trafficking of human beings and which frequently create the dramas shown on television in all the homes of european citizens throughout the world, giving an image which is certainly shameful also for the european institutions. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. europe is not concerned about the link between illegal immigration and terrorism, yet al qaeda elements are being identified daily in the illegal immigration ghettos. a criminal network has just been uncovered in my country, with people even infiltrating the reception centres. what if these, instead of being simply instruments in the criminal trafficking of illegal immigrants, were elements of islamic terrorist organizations? and why are there no adequate preventive health measures, also in the interests of immigrants, given the endemic conditions of dramatic health precariousness in the countries and regions from which the illegal immigrants come? let us think of the situation in algeria with the plague emergency. and again: has europe considered or does it intend to consider the need to protect, also from the point of view of protecting the territory and its natural resources, areas such as the islands and the coasts of southern italy where the smuggling vessels land? an island of extraordinary beauty, from the point of view of landscapes, such as lampedusa, one of the last european landmasses before africa, a coastline like that of domitian, are unique landscapes, in terms of beauty, of european heritage. how long must they continue to be turned into reception camps for a multitude of illegal immigrants? the british proposal to locate the reception centres outside europe should be welcomed.
mr president, if the rule is true that in life one can always do better, i must say that i can hardly imagine a better presidency than the one we are concluding today. this is because the greek presidency has been able to combine the big issues, which are already being dealt with in abundance - such as enlargement, the convention, a very balanced and very wise position in foreign policy - with the everyday life, which is important for the citizens of europe. we have, in these six months, which are a temporary period, completed a number of extremely important dossiers. we have made progress on taxation, closed energy dossiers, implemented and expanded important programmes such as erasmus and e-learning: there is therefore a sharing for the work. i have only one problem: the closure of the position on agriculture. i have a perfect understanding of macroeconomic scenarios; i fully understand the need for the european union to position itself, also in foreign policy, with the developing countries. however, the conclusion last week of the agricultural package leaves me puzzled, because we have in fact begun a process of dismantling the primary sector on our continent and we have in fact begun a destruction of the only real policy that has allowed the european union to boast of this title of union. i hope that after cancún there will be a rethinking, otherwise the position of commissioner fischler, mediated by the council of agriculture ministers, will not only have an impact in a sector which is strategic for the economy but above all in a sector which is strategic for consumers. in other words, we ask farmers to invest and commit themselves to protecting the quality of their food and then we dismantle the protective measures in this sector: it's a policy i really don't understand.
mr president, we in this house have voted on a number of regulations on the liberalization of air transport. any european airline can connect any european airport to the city of strasbourg, so i see no reason to criticize. it may be right in this case, but why should it be air france that connects strasbourg with other european cities, and not british or, i don't know, alitalia, iberia or even non-flag companies? it is true that there is a problem, but it cannot be blamed on one company, since we are in favour of market liberalization.
- this concludes voting time. (the sitting was suspended at 1 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
madam president, first of all i would like to express my appreciation to the two rapporteurs for the tiring work they have done. i am not being sarcastic, because it was no small task to bring together positions that were at first so distant and to arrive at a common expression today. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am not going to go into the details of the proposals. the picture that emerges is not complete. this is not so much because the subject is still divided into 35 reports without any attempt at linking them together, nor because it has been decided at this stage to split the subject into three regulations, one of which is not being discussed at this part-session, but because the picture that emerges is itself riddled with discrepancies, deliberately overlooked in the name of the need for its urgent definition. many of them could be mentioned, such as the 10-year duration of the authorisation on the one hand and the obligation to keep the records and analyses carried out for only five years on the other. and then: the identification codes are unknown and the sampling techniques are random, without standardised procedures; the commission has also proposed that the life of the gmos and products derived from them be closely monitored, but has not yet been able to provide for additional risk assessments. one in particular seems paradoxical to me: the one about the so-called coexistence. it is not useful to go over the arguments which have animated the debate on this point, but the fact is that the way chosen - to ask the states for rules in the meantime, pending a statement by the commission on the subject - is certainly the most extravagant. i hope i am wrong if i say that the benchmarking techniques will not prevent pollution, and that there is no mention of the polluter pays principle, and that is the complete negation of the 0.5 to 0.9 eligibility rates which have been the subject of much discussion. in conclusion, the derogations in force today should certainly have been abandoned, but this could have been done with greater diligence and, above all, with greater consistency.
mr president, europe is a continent of very different peoples and cultures, but one thing is certain: there is nothing surprising in the anxiety that accompanies his arrival at the head of the union. there is an italian anomaly which is likely to be contagious in the new union: an extraordinary concentration of power, first economic and media, and then political, which allows it, among other things, to be above the law today. but we know that permanent indignation is not enough; we prefer to act. we will continue to urge the commission to honour its commitment to present a communication on the state of media pluralism in the union and to honour its role as guardian of the treaties. it seems to us that when it comes to enforcing the 'television without frontiers' directive in italy, it is a little, shall we say, hesitant. we have fought to ensure that pluralism is included among the fundamental values of the new european constitution, so that europe will not continue to be left in the dark on the issue of concentration and pluralism in the media, on the pretext of the lack of a legal basis. in times of economic crisis it is normal to think of ways to revive the economy. and we know that italy has very creative ministers who are eager to transfer their ambitious plans for bridges, tunnels and motorways to the european level. we are prepared to engage in a constructive dialogue on the tens and the role of the eib, but we must not play games with ourselves. it is not true that of the 14 projects decided upon in essen, only three have been implemented because of lack of money: if investors are not found, it is also because for many of these projects the utility, socioeconomic viability and - we add - environmental sustainability were not ensured. we must return to the spirit of the delors plan and to two strong ideas in the commission's white paper on transport, which unfortunately we all seem to forget at times: the investments must not only serve to fill the territory with infrastructure but also to promote economic and social cohesion. we must abandon the idea that economic growth must necessarily be accompanied by transport growth, otherwise we will soon be in a permanent traffic jam. what is the point of spending 6 billion euros on the messina bridge to save half an hour of travel time, if thousands of sicilians have no drinking water and it takes them three hours to travel 100 km by train? what is the point of investing 15 years of work for the turin-lyon line in a 54 km tunnel, drilling through a mountain full of asbestos, when the modernisation and upgrading of the existing line would allow it to absorb twice the freight traffic in five years? we would like to discuss not pharaonic and perhaps unrealizable projects, but investments that promote innovation, renewable energy and the regeneration of the territory, for which the participation and acceptance of the citizens living in that territory is considered a value and not an annoying obstacle. mr president, your european programme says in black and white that we must open a new era and that we must fight against environmental bureaucracies. this is an interesting turn of phrase, which refers - we believe - to the need to bring to europe an idea that is very fashionable in italy, namely total deregulation. we will oppose this export attempt, which is particularly risky in times of enlargement, because it is strictly functional to the policy of 'all infrastructure' and derives from an outdated concept of the environment as a commodity to be used and sold. italy is second only to spain in terms of environmental law violations. your government, mr president, has changed the waste laws to make controls more difficult, even though 11 million tonnes of waste are lost in italy every year and the turnover of the eco-mafia is estimated at around 2.5 billion euro; has so relaxed the rules on environmental impact assessment that it has become a purely formal procedure; has given its blessing to the indiscriminate hunting culture in the parks by the regions; this year, it has allocated eur 56 million for protected areas, which is less than the cost of building a 1 km tunnel motorway. the commission is preparing the indiscriminate decriminalisation of environmental offences, and this is all without regard to the community legal framework. we believe that there is a "case italy" on this issue as well as on the media. president prodi, in a field where the union has real powers and international responsibilities, we fear that the cumbersome infringement procedure is no longer sufficient and that, by maintaining an attitude of too much tolerance and attention to formal detail rather than substance, there is a serious risk of contributing to the hollowing out of community environmental legislation. president berlusconi, on foreign policy we would like you to take advantage of all of us of your excellent relations with president bush, but certainly not to organize an impossible competition in military spending, perhaps by reducing contributions to development cooperation organizations to finance the italian presence in iraq. the international criminal court has been a major conflict with the bush administration. we would like to know, mr president, whether you will be willing to continue and update the action plan for the court of justice adopted in may 2002. and besides, you have an excellent relationship with president putin. we would really like you to make this friendship, once again, useful to all of us. he made a list of all the countries in the world: how can you forget chechnya? we need strong action to resolve this conflict. we must take the initiative and we will be with you, if you take the initiative, to convene a regional conference for the caucasus where we can address all, all the ongoing conflicts. and then, mr president, we believe that we would be proud, with you, if you could help to convince president putin to ratify the kyoto protocol. a final word on the european constitution. we will support the italian presidency's call for a short intergovernmental conference so as not to undermine the otherwise poorly achieved results of the convention, but, mr president, please keep nuclear out of the constitution and, mr vice-president, help us keep nuclear out of the constitution. just as with gmos, it would be unwise to underestimate the negative reaction of public opinion in many european countries, including italy, to the explicit promotion of such a costly and dangerous energy source, which exists today in the constitution. (applause from the left)
mr president, a society in constant change requires that politicians reflect anew, that they be able to take immediate decisions, but above all that they be prepared to reflect in depth and with full knowledge of the geopolitical situation and the different economic and cultural realities which in some respects are increasing the gap between north and south and between citizens and citizens. as a member of the convention, i welcome, also on behalf of the group i had the honour of representing in this house - the union for a europe of nations group - a text which recognises the value of the nation states in the new european union: we hope that after the intergovernmental conference the union will have stronger and more transparent institutions, so that the world will know that the european pole exists as a model of civilization and development: of a civilization which wants its values to be recognized and does not wish to encroach on those of other cultures; the european union is the world's largest producer of food. we hope that the intergovernmental conference will reach agreement on the preamble, recognizing the roots from which the union was born. the greco-roman history, the judeo-christian tradition, the secular and liberal values which have gradually been defined cannot be ignored because the future of europe draws its cultural and moral strength from them. we also note that, in order to make all the institutions more cohesive, it would be appropriate to re-examine the need for a european commissioner for each member state. the constitutional treaty will finally bring about a politically cohesive, free and independent europe, respectful of the languages and traditions of each nation. the italian presidency has a very difficult task ahead of it and we are sure that, in the spirit of cooperation it will be able to establish with the other european institutions, with the members of this parliament elected by the people, it will give new impetus to the process of european unification and to europe's role in the world. the urgency of the immigration problem requires a global perspective. as i wrote on the eve of the thessaloniki summit, only europe, including through a new mediterranean policy and finally with a new concept of cooperation towards the poorest countries, will be able to prevent illegal immigration from turning into a collective tragedy. the european border guard corps and new agreements with third countries are welcome. welcomes enhanced cooperation, including in the fight against organised crime, terrorism and fundamentalism; the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the community's policy on the environment. a healthy social market economy cannot continue to allow unbridled financial speculation, such as we have seen in recent years, which has exploded here and there without, however, cutting off the roots, the causes that caused it. the good health of the economy also depends on the rules within which it must operate, and a good rule is that the financial economy must move in step with the real economy. europe cannot ignore that the mobility required to develop the economy further also starts from two postulates: cultural training, which enables young people from all nations to have a basis of mutual knowledge and therefore national governments will have to face the problem of greater and better information on the activities of the european institutions and the housing problem, which cannot fall on individuals and private individuals alone but to which the institutions must also contribute; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. in the fight against the new poverty which is increasingly emerging in the countries of the union, we believe that a stronger energy policy for europe is vital, based on the search for new sources and the better use of those known, going hand in hand with the safeguarding of those environmental values without which the very life of the planet would be endangered. at the same time, the question of research funding must be addressed: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in this context, a more effective european policy on food safety, the quality of products and the protection of their origin is particularly important, thus safeguarding the health of citizens, the primary good of the union. today europe is called not only to defend the right to life of its citizens and of every human being, but to send the message that everyone has the right to a life of dignity. in the third millennium, the more developed peoples are called upon, within and outside their own countries, to take the political, cultural and economic action necessary to prevent the tragedies we are witnessing from continuing. at the moment, children in afghanistan have the lowest life expectancy in the world, as do millions of children from africa to south america and the middle east who are deprived of their right to live and to live with dignity. the fight against terrorism and the consolidation of peace also depend on europe's ability to achieve what it has announced in recent years: the right to a decent life, mr president, also to put an end to those actions which lead to the practices of physical disability to which so many women are subjected in their countries of origin and who suffer the same violence on european territory. the union for europe of nations group also calls on the italian presidency to adopt policies to combat discrimination, to crack down on arms and human traffickers, and to destroy the dark but powerful world of paedophilia. these criminal activities travel freely on the internet, without regulation, conveying their evil culture to every corner of the world. we therefore call for the definition of rules to prevent a tool for communication between citizens from becoming a tool for those who violate the laws of the member states. to prevent this from happening, europe has to ensure that every technological discovery is subject to scientific and experimental controls to ensure that it can be used without danger. mr president, freedom, to be such, needs rules: a few, clear and applied. we appeal to these rules so that the italian presidency today may receive the good wishes and cooperation of this parliament, of the union for europe of the nations group and of all the twenty-five countries which make up the great europe. (applause from the right)
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, we see in practice what is already happening. we measure in this way, with intellectual honesty and, i believe, with this form of collaboration, the distances that can be between saying and doing. on 7 june, president berlusconi, in jerusalem, you said, in words: i have always pointed to israel as a future member of the european union because of its absolute religious, cultural and political affinities, as the only true democracy in the entire middle east. i repeat: i have always pointed to israel as a future member of the european union. this is the official wording of the written document we have. in the context of the euro-mediterranean partnership, i quote we will not overlook the opportunity to consolidate relations with israel in the perspective of a wider and more structured cooperation with each other. this is the line that opposes that of "israel in the european union", because obviously those who oppose it do not say "we do not want these dirty jews"; they say "just collaborate". and we are with president berlusconi, who at that time was not yet the president of our council. and then, turkey. we have always heard russia, turkey and israel. well, here again your text explicitly denies the aim of turkish membership. what are you writing? the italian presidency also considers it essential to give more concrete content to the relationship with the russian federation and so on. and that's accurate. as regards turkey, 'we are committed to jointly reviewing the path towards integration, encouraging the government in ankara to continue its efforts in the crucial process of internal reform'. well, if this is a recruitment announcement! is it true that minister buttiglione said in the last few days: it is a military regime; it can never come to us but, if you abolish the military, it becomes theocratic. but that's another matter. this is christian europe! i would like to say one thing here, and we cannot keep quiet about it. it is not true that there is one history of europe, one; there are many: there is the history of the reformation and the counter-reformation; there is the history of a europe that has produced victorious communisms, victorious fascisms, victorious nazisms, that has produced and produces anti-democracy; and then there is the other, which unfortunately the pope from poland accuses, when he accuses liberalism - by the way, liberalism, mr watson, not liberalism; here is also liberalism, for a hundred years -; and there is a europe of the zuaves, european and french zuaves against the italian risorgimento; there is a europe which is the europe of the anti-us europe of altiero spinelli, of ernesto rossi, of the europe of president berlusconi, which you announced at the g8 in a way that i applauded, that we radicals applauded. we want to take europe towards the world organization of democracy and to deal positively with the community of democracies. at the g8, we applauded! today, of course, watson was quick to point out the keynesian approach to his speech, but i have always said that there is a deep cultural underlying sympathy between president prodi and you in the political choices you make. tremonti says "colbertismo" instead of saying keynesianism, but i mean... what we have to ask you, then, is simply two things: first, the european union should bring to the attention of the un general assembly, as vice-president fini announced, the question of the moratorium on the death penalty; secondly, that democratic caucuses are convened by the presidency of the european union after the un meetings. these are two things which would be more than enough for us today. for the rest, best of luck to you and us!
mr president of parliament, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, a year and a half ago, when the convention began its work, few were convinced that it was possible to turn a dream into reality. few people believed that europe could, as it is doing, create an institutional structure capable of giving it ever greater responsibilities on the international stage. the few have become the vast majority today. this is the beginning of the most intensive six months of commitment and hope in recent years. italy, the founding country, obtained a mandate from the countries of the union in thessaloniki to complete the work of the convention. that's not all. europe chose rome as the site for the signing of the first constitution: it is a political achievement of great importance, it is a historic recognition for italy and for its government, which the voters freely elected. this is an acknowledgement which encourages and will support your work in the months ahead, mr president, work which i am convinced will enable us to achieve the objectives you have set out in this house. the text we have approved at the end of the convention's work is certainly perfect but represents, as you said, a fundamental basis of work which cannot be altered. the programme which we, the european people's party, share, envisages a europe of tomorrow which is united, allied with the united states, but capable of assuming responsibilities which it has not been able to assume until now. the new treaty, with the identification of a balanced system between the council, the commission and parliament, we acknowledge in this house, mr president, that it has underlined the importance of the role played and to be played by the european parliament also at the igc, with the identification of a president of the council and a foreign minister, will provide the answer to those who sought, with the question: where is mr europe? clear interlocutors on our continent. the fall of the principle of unanimity is the other option which will enable us to overcome the obstacles which have too often blocked the european initiative. it is now desirable that the intergovernmental conference should increase the number of matters on which it can decide by majority. but the constitution is only a tool: the rules cannot be effective without political will. mr president, your speech clearly shows that italy has chosen to give great weight to the union's external action. if we want it, europe, with its eyes turned to the east, but also to the south, will be the protagonist of peace, progress, security, development and social justice, including for the weakest, the disabled, as you have said. but the constitution and political will alone are not enough to achieve the project of the adenauer, schuman, de gasperi, monnet, martino and spinelli. europe will not be europe if it cannot speak to the hearts of its citizens. europe will be the europe of values: it's the values that underlie our origins. i hope that the igc will make an explicit reference to the judeo-christian roots in the preamble to the secular constitution of our europe, because if we lose sight of our origins, we will not be able to take new paths, to look towards the new horizons that the europe of tomorrow will have to reach. (applause from the right)
mr president, the problems we are facing at the moment are essential for the future of the union and we intend to give them absolute priority. it is on these that we will assess the work of your presidency. however, the concerns that have accompanied it are not all dictated by prejudice. the conflict of interest, unresolved, remains a legitimate source of concern that goes far beyond our country. on the other hand, the resignation of foreign minister ruggiero significantly affected the way in which italy's role in europe was understood, that europe which minister bossi called "forcolandia", that is, repressive, and which he still brands as a neo-jacobin project, intrinsically authoritarian and globalizing. perhaps this explains your reluctance to work seriously on the construction of a european area of justice, freedom and security, starting with the european arrest warrant, which should be implemented by december 2003. i was saying, "i'm not going to talk about it". the constitution, first of all. we call on the next intergovernmental conference not to call into question the results achieved by the convention and for italy to work to improve the text on essential points, such as the extension of majority voting. on economic issues, we see that the italian presidency intends to revive the idea of public investment in infrastructure. we will also add training, research and the environment. this proposal can only be successful if it is truly european in nature, if it is firmly anchored in the community method and if it is accompanied by a credible proposal from a financial point of view. as far as pensions are concerned, mr president, you are well aware that europe has no competence over social security systems, which are so different from each other and so interwoven with welfare policies. does the presidency really intend to promote a european initiative in the economic and social field? well then, let us work to ensure that in the new treaty fiscal and social policies become community policies and are backed up by the guidelines of a genuine european economic governance, as this parliament has long been calling for. these are also matters where the method of consultation between the social partners, as envisaged by the lisbon strategy, is required. as regards immigration, one cannot rely on just one aspect of european policy, that of controlling the borders to combat illegal immigration, and ignore all the others, concerning the management of flows, the reception and the rights of those who, coming here to look for work, contribute to the economic growth of our countries, those who, to understand us, his minister for reform calls in a block 'bingo bongo'. finally, on foreign policy, one can be both european and a friend of the united states. friendship, however, is a relationship that must not be reduced to subordination. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of human rights. in thessaloniki, a clear framework for the union's external relations was defined, distinguishing the further prospects of enlargement from closer relations with our neighbours; we hope that what you have said this morning about turkey, after the contradictory statements you and your minister for european policies have made, will be true. so, for the middle east, we hope that the peace process will be supported by the italian presidency, but to achieve this we must talk and take into account all the parties involved. good work, mr president! (applause) i would like to thank
mr president of the assembly, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, we are speaking as europeans today. we do not bring opinions to this house on the internal politics of our countries. in the next six months, europe must accelerate its own progress; the european union's constitutional treaty with 25 members must show the world whether our continent will continue to be a driving force for economic and social progress and, after the serious crisis in iraq, whether it will have the effective tools to play a leading role in security and freedom in partnership with the united states in a new multilateral cooperation. as a european, i therefore wish the italian presidency success in close cooperation with the commission, chaired by mr prodi, and with our parliament. you, mr president, have shown today that you are prudent and that you have made an effort to present your programme in a line of cooperation with other countries and not in discontinuity with the historical lines of italy's european policy. but we must be more courageous if we are not to make continually lower compromises, especially in the governance of the economy, in foreign policy and in the new defence policy that is needed, in order to minimise the risk of paralysing the unanimous vote. we expect a radical change in the next six months, capable of removing the causes of the criticism, scepticism and concern that have accompanied these first days of the semester you are leading. it is not the internal politics of a country, but europe that calls for excluding conflicts of interest and media concentrations. it is the liberal foundations of the separation of powers and the balance of power that are reflected in the european treaties which we have freely signed and to which we are bound. the spirit of the treaty of rome of 1957 was based on a bold and forward-looking vision; it has built 50 years of democracy, prosperity, peace. if we are guided by that vision, even by alternative political positions, we will reap common fruits for the good of europe and its future. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president-in-office of the council, as you know, our dislike of your policy and your government is radical, and it would be pointless if, now that this policy applies to europe and not just to italy, our position changed. i think there's a rhetoric about a nation's semester that can't hide the political reality: the policy is that each semester is a government semester, not a country semester, so if you are against the bush administration, you are not anti-american, and if you are in italy and in europe against your government, you are not against italy. europe is certainly an important step forward, a challenge which has rightly been described as historic. we fear that your government will make the necessary choices more difficult than they are helpful. she starts with a handicap: the european parliament has been the subject of a number of reports, including one on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which has been discussed in the committee on foreign affairs and security. i personally feel even more hurt by a minister in his government who can speak of the need to shell the migrant convoys at sea. we will not, however, shout the scandal of his six-month term; we are not going to discuss the question of the future of the community, but we are going to focus on the criticism of its policy, which is essentially based on the primacy of the united states of america and the primacy of the market. both are crisis factors for the europe to be built: one, the united states of america, led today by a doctrine of pre-emptive war; the second is the market, which is faced with an obvious crisis of social cohesion. you have put forward a proposal, mr president-in-office, for a transatlantic, neoliberal and post-democratic europe. we believe that this proposal contradicts the historical vocation and mission of europe today, a europe which needs a different perspective. they talked about keynesian politics; i have my doubts . large infrastructure is not a keynesian policy; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain why he has not taken this step. there is another side to his politics that is organically neoliberal: it is what we call the precariousness of work, and what you call flexibility. the european union is the only country in the world which has not yet adopted the euro. this, mr president, is not europe. the europe that exists is the one that demands autonomy from north american politics in the name of a different political culture, that demands a different social model. today its strength is the weakness of political europe, because it is true that this political europe is founded on a democratic deficit and because i think that the convention is also ambiguous and weak, far from the great progressive constitutions. that is why, mr president-in-office, we will not oppose you in the name of this europe, but in the name of another europe: the european union is a social and democratic europe. and that is why our wish - and do not take it as an enemy propensity - is that in the italian semester the participation and the prominence of the mass action of the movements in europe increase. there 's only one thing we 'd like to agree with you on . the european parliament has been a major voice in the debate on the death penalty. that would at least be a good sign of civilization.
mr president, i believe that the most important task of the italian semester is that of the new constitutional treaty, which, let us remember, is not aimed at ideas and concepts alone, but at a territory and the people who live in that territory. the work done by the convention is good work, the starting point is good, there could be only a few adjustments. i am referring to a better definition of legislative powers between europe, between the union and the individual states. as regards the question of majority or unanimity for decisions, two requirements must be met: the need for efficiency and the need to respect the sovereignty and interests of the member states. in your speech you repeated the word 'mediation' several times. i think that in this area too, a balancing act is needed to meet different needs. finally, i would like to mention something which i do not think will be possible, but which i would like to stress: a reduction in the commission's monopoly of legislative initiative, also in favour of this house. this parliament has no right of legislative initiative: a case, i believe, unique in the world. even a simple city councillor can make proposals, but the european parliamentarian does not have that right. i think, at the very least, that this matter deserves your attention. i also wish you all the best for your six months as president.
mr president, as an italian and as a member of the european parliament, i am both embarrassed and concerned, but also proud that my country, italy, is taking the lead in the european union today. i am embarrassed by the many criticisms, censures, sarcasms and mockery directed at my country because of what has been called, unfortunately with good reason, the italian anomaly, that is to say the serious conflict of interest involving our president of the council. i am also humiliated because i realise that whenever our president-in-office of the council expresses a concept, outlines a proposal, or takes a measure in the fields of economy, finance, information and, above all, justice, we never know whether he is doing so in our interests or in his own interests and those of his friends. in fact, we in italy know this very well, given what he has done so far. i am worried because i do not want the virus of conflict of interest that is humiliating italian democracy to spread to europe, because that is the real cancer of democracy, mr berlusconi, and not the work of the judiciary, as you foolishly said the other day. but i am also proud - yes, proud - because, thank god, the italian institutions are not only composed of the president of the council and the friends he has brought with him, especially in the italian parliament. i am therefore certain that the italian leadership of the european union as a whole, with the help and cooperation of all the institutions, including the opposition, will be able to do its job despite the italian anomaly, which fortunately has passed.
mr president, italy, which was long ago one of the founding fathers of the european community, has today the great task of bringing europe to its historic continental enlargement and the launching of its first constitutional charter. this is our wish and our commitment, but frankly, it is bad for italy and for europe that the person who will have to represent us this semester is silvio berlusconi. all europe knows that in his person is expressed an anomaly unique in the world. he and his work are weighed down by an immense stone because of the permanent conflict between his personal interests and those of the italian and european community. and the richest man in italy, his immense economic power and his private affairs, present in every field, conflict with the laws, the rules, the very postulates of the state; they conflict with justice, and it's the truth. it is a very sad fact for italy and for europe to read in the most distinguished newspapers of every country ferocious judgments about him. you've read them all, colleagues. i won 't repeat them: they're harsh judgments, but they're true. it is of great concern to all of us to see at the head of the council the man who, during the war in iraq, worked not to unite but to divide europe, taking a position contrary to the sentiments expressed by the vast majority of the european people and placing himself, today as yesterday, in subordinate positions to the united states of america. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to be able to take a stand on international issues, but i am saying that it should be the only one to be able to take a stand on the european union's international policy, which is the only one that is capable of taking a stand on international issues. berlusconi is the right wing, the worst right wing in europe, the most dangerous, and i have no illusions about that. i frankly predict that the berlusconi administration will prove to be a complete failure. i hope that at least, in the interests of europe and my italian homeland, we will succeed in minimizing the damage and, let it be clear, that is why we will act decisively with a clear sense of national responsibility and a convinced european spirit and, precisely for this reason, in opposition to him and his policy.
mr president-in-office of the council, as the italian mep for the european republicans in the eldr and for the liberal socialists of mr martelli, i can only hope that this semester will be a success for europe and for italy. the solution of the difficult tasks which lie ahead - from large infrastructures to pensions to illegal immigration - does not, however, require glamorous television formulae but intelligent, creative work of political mediation to honour the commitment made to this parliament. the profile of its action must therefore be very high and focused on the major international choices, first of all the new constitution of the twenty-five, on the text of which all steps forward will be welcome, but on which absolutely no step backwards should be allowed. the reconstruction of a real partnership with the usa requires a direct relationship with the european union through a gradual assumption of responsibility and european leadership by nato, with a moderate, non-antagonistic and non-subordinate view of relations. that is why, mr president, we believe that we must absolutely encourage britain's entry into monetary union in order to strengthen europe internationally. the other difficult test which awaits is the solution of the middle east problem, with attention to the fact that the roadmap requires an attitude of great impartiality, so that european intervention cannot be directed to one party only. these are great events, mr president, and i wish you all the best for them, also on behalf of our country.
mr president, if there is one thing that worries me about the european situation - and we have had some examples of this this morning - it is a policy which all too often has manifestations of self-reference. i am therefore certain - and the facts will confirm this - that your commitment to responding day by day to the expectations of your european citizens will mark your six months as president. the rule in our speeches is to try to contribute to the reports. mr president, there is a great difficulty here, because the subjects covered covered all our expectations. there is only one point i would like to draw your attention to: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that the italian presidency should remind the european union of a number of specific responsibilities: strengthening economic and social cohesion; reducing the disparity between the levels of development of many regions, which is still present in our union and has been further accentuated by enlargement; the implementation of concepts of geographical solidarity, and in this respect we are thinking of the outermost regions. this is based, among other things, on three principles: that cohesion policy is difficult to implement without resources; that the sectoral policies which the union is developing - let us think only of the consequences of the reform of the agricultural policy - will have to contribute to a great idea of european cohesion; the new concept of european cohesion must also incorporate the criterion of flexibility. one last point, already touched upon by my colleague tajani: all these policies will be reflected in the work of the igc, which confirms the convention. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter.
mr president, among the issues on the agenda of the italian presidency, this parliament has naturally devoted particular attention to the intergovernmental conference which will have to approve the proposal for the convention. the constitution will be a historic milestone, reminiscent of the 1957 treaty of rome. this parliament, however, expects a step forward in majority voting and a common foreign policy, which it considers the only alternative to american unilateralism and the most serious basis for a euro-atlantic understanding. i also hope that you will reflect on the fact that the human values which are clearly translated into the rules of the constitution and which are at the heart of european citizenship have christian roots. christianity is not a limit to the secularism of politics. the italian presidency has the opportunity to frame the trans-european networks, which the commission's priority projects have identified as an objective to strengthen european territorial cohesion, in a broader programme. but we must devote more resources - as you said, mr berlusconi, and as mr prodi said - to research and innovation policy, because the competitiveness of the european economy depends above all on these investments. finally, this presidency will have to put into practice the initiative outlined in thessaloniki for an immigration policy which strikes a real balance between legality and welcome, which is respectful of the values we read in the european charter of fundamental rights. finally, in order to revive europe's mediterranean policy, we must be aware that no initiative towards the countries of the southern mediterranean can succeed unless it is based on a strong peace policy that guarantees the security of israel but also a homeland for the palestinians. good work!
mr president, you spoke of a greater europe and in fact, with the arrival of the new countries, we are living in a time of reconciliation of europe with its history, with its civilization. but europe will be great if it can also remain competitive in the economic sphere. as you said, europe will be able to weigh in if it can decide. if there is a spectre hanging over europe today, it is the risk of losing competitiveness on a world scale. i therefore welcome your reference to the lisbon strategy and also the reference in your programme to competitiveness in the service of shared prosperity. after lisbon, mr president, three years have been wasted. that is why it is right to look, as you have done, for new lines of development, new instruments of economic management. it takes imagination, it takes the ability to see beyond the obvious, and therefore the proposal of tangible and intangible infrastructure - hence human capital, research - by mobilising private as well as public resources, is the right way forward. it is also necessary to bring the issue of a sustainable pension system to the union level. many of us in this parliament and outside are convinced that your presidency will be the key to success in this critical step towards the construction of a united europe. i would remind those who have brought the poisons of a certain mediocre italian policy here today that in a democracy it is the vote of the citizens that legitimizes it, and nothing else. perhaps the concept of democracy is too new for them to have fully embraced it. we are proud, as italians and as europeans, that you are leading europe in these six months. good work, mr president!
mr president of parliament, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, two golden rules emerged from the speech by president berlusconi: the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to continue to play a leading role in the development of the union's foreign and security policy and to draw attention to the facts. the line of mediation announced by president berlusconi is the line of wisdom and real diligence, the line that europe needs in the interests of all. the facts are urgent; europe is at a historic turning point, it must have a constitution, but the draft presented has received a general approval which has, however, for the time being, underlined the objections of several governments, objections which will come to light at the intergovernmental conference. mediation will be the only way to create a positive conclusion. in foreign policy, there are four objectives: the middle east peace process, the recovery of transatlantic relations, which have been strained by the iraqi crisis; the commission's proposal is to launch new operations in the balkans, led by european forces under the european flag, and to establish a dialogue with the countries of the southern mediterranean, which is one of the strengths of the european commission's approach, which has been well led by romano prodi. in these cases too, the mediation you have indicated, mr president-in-office, will be decisive. from the very beginning of your term in this house you had to make clear not only the priorities of the italian presidency but also the method it intended to follow, and you did so clearly, consistently, in the spirit of true democracy, especially by announcing greater involvement of the european parliament. finally, we welcomed the commitment to boosting the union's economic recovery, to shaping the future of the common agricultural policy and to underlining its spirit of cooperation on thorny issues such as immigration and security policy. i would like to conclude by expressing the pride of an italian member of parliament, a feeling that any other european colleague would feel under the same conditions, of belonging to a founding action of the european union, a union which today sees two italian representatives, berlusconi and prodi, at the summit. we are convinced that they will not disappoint and will be worthy of italian history and of the community's creation. president berlusconi, your presidency will be successful, despite the italian and european owl that is raging today, and you will have the full support of the group of the european people's party in this parliament. i wish him every success, which will be the success of europe!
mr president, i have the honour to speak at the end of this debate, and i should like to begin by expressing my satisfaction as an italian for the recognition, from so many quarters, of italy's historic role in the process of european integration: the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i am sure, mr berlusconi, that you, as an italian, will share this feeling of satisfaction and understand how the reservations, concerns and requests that are being made to you reflect the expectations of all of us for the six months of the presidency of a great country that is the founder and federator of community europe. i shall now express my concerns and expectations as chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs. the convention on the future of europe was an innovation of extraordinary importance. the draft constitution which it has adopted is, under the treaty, left to the final decisions of the heads of state or government, but it would be foolish to call into question the most significant innovations after sixteen months of intensive work, to which representatives of both governments and parliaments, national and european, have contributed. you, mr berlusconi, have spoken of differences of opinion and therefore of the need for mediation, but considerable efforts have already been made in the convention and in particular in its praesidium. the italian presidency's mediation in the preparation and conduct of the intergovernmental conference must now be directed towards further progress on the draft constitution, towards the clear adoption of those essential outstanding choices which the president of the commission indicated today and which were already made clear yesterday morning in this chamber. parliament fully shares the commission's views. a resolution, supported by the people's party, the socialists and the liberals, will shortly be voted on in this house, calling for a bold formulation of parts iii and iv of the constitution and, in particular, for the further extension of qualified majority voting. we shall, as a parliament, make our contribution to the intergovernmental conference in the ways indicated by the constitutional committee and which you have undertaken to propose to the council. i too, of course, appreciated your position, which i hope will be extended to the other aspects suggested by mr barón. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, i wholeheartedly share the programme of the italian presidency and believe that with the necessary prudence, the humility which characterizes the italian people and the almost exclusive ability to put the brightest and most intelligent at the service of the new europe, we will be able to win the harbour of the new europe. the high sense of politics must be the noble government of the needs of the people, in a society in constant and ever-faster evolution. to do this, we need a great political sensitivity to govern the techno-structure and to oppose technocracy. this society, governed in this way, is made up of the vast majority, out of the jargon, of ordinary, good, simple people, men, women, young, old, children, disabled, who work, live in anonymity but are animated by good and simple feelings of solidarity and love. this is the important europe to which we must turn, bending the economic structure to the growth of these ordinary people who do not have to live in the precariousness and the temporariness to which the globalised economy would like to force them. the euro-atlantic partnership with all the americas is not just a necessity, an economic and political choice; it is a cultural fact that is motivated by common roots and shared values. it must be strengthened, it must grow, also through the transformation of nato, to become an instrument of international policing at the service of the reformed un, overcoming the logic of yalta. a final thought is about poverty in the world. there's too much poverty, and it needs help. that is why, in the debate on the union's financial perspective, we must aim for a projection of the contribution towards 2% of gdp, with courage and determination, because it is not enough for international agencies to open up markets and reform institutions. mr president, i hope that our italian presidency will have a very good ear, because only then will it be able to celebrate the establishment of the new europe, with the satisfaction of the commission chaired by mr prodi, a convinced defender of the community method and of the europe we want.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, many colleagues have underlined the extraordinary nature of the events and the changes in european policy which will take place under your presidency, from the constitutional treaty to the road map for the middle east, to the start of enlargement, to the relaunch of the lisbon strategy. i certainly intend to acknowledge the historicity and importance of these meetings, but i would also like to draw your attention, mr president, to the ordinary nature of the work of the european institutions. we need to move forward, step by step, with many important issues, and i am referring in particular - as my colleague mr jarzembowski has already done - to the field of mobility and transport. we are in a fortunate position in this sector: the commission's proposal to increase european funding to 20% is a very good example of this. this is certainly a scenario with important prospects, but we must close the circle, mr president. the council has relaxed a little on the liberalization of port services, on the railway package, on the annual, thorny problem of the alpine crossings. this parliament will vote tomorrow on a request for the closure of the subject of eco-points for the umpteenth time and i hope that the council will follow our instructions this time. then there is the aviation sector, as well as the maritime security sector. so just one example, mr president, to remind you of the commitment that i am sure your presidency will be ready to demonstrate in these areas, precisely because every time we make progress on these issues, we will provide our fellow europeans with tangible proof that europe offers more opportunities, well-being and prosperity for all.
mr president, the vulgar and tendentious attacks of certain foreign and italian press, which i must say have been echoed in this chamber in the speeches of some colleagues and then in that pathetic demonstration, have given a needlessly polemical character to this beginning of the italian semester. paradoxically, i think that all this is good news, president berlusconi: we must remember that such malignities were already manifested in a powerful way in 2001 and only contributed to his overwhelming victory in those elections. i hope that, after this initial outcry, the success of the italian semester will be judged not by the private affairs of mr berlusconi or his conflict of interest - which he is trying to resolve and i hope he will resolve soon - but by his ability to give the european construction the leadership and the acceleration it so badly needs, and today's speech is a good first step in that direction. as a member of the committee on foreign affairs of this parliament, i am sure that in this area, in the area which concerns me, certain problems can be solved, such as the problem of mending the riven relations with the united states. on other issues, progress will be made, such as the middle east, where italy has already shown great diplomatic agility, or the assimilation of the new member countries, which rightly see in berlusconi a defender of their interests and principles, a political leader who has understood, unlike others, that there is no contradiction between european commitment and atlantic solidarity. that said, your task, president berlusconi, remains difficult because there will be no discounts for you; every decision, every move will be scrutinized and scrutinized, no misstep will be forgiven. but this is not the first time he has undergone this kind of examination: i wish you all the best, president berlusconi!
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, constitutional reform and economic reforms in europe today are merely two sides of the same coin. competitiveness, social cohesion, solidarity between generations, the development of human capital, solidarity with the countries of the global south are not only many of the goals within our reach, but they are also the founding values of the best histories of our peoples. we have a great opportunity today. to bring together the constituent process with the will, with the need for reforms: the reforms as a daily and progressive implementation of that open-working that is, and will be, our formal constitution. conditions are all there, both in the light and in the shadows, that can be turned into opportunities: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction. the action plan you have proposed, mr president, for the development of large-scale transeuropean infrastructure networks through public and private investment, is in this direction. as we know, infrastructure investment produces more income through the keynesian multiplier, more competitiveness, more economic and social cohesion, north, south, east, west. the same applies to the objective of making our welfare systems sustainable through reforms, not to take away but to give more, equitably, even to our children, guarantees and security. but investment in infrastructure and welfare reforms require an efficient, flexible, well-structured, well-regulated and fairer labour market. mr president, you won the elections in italy with a programme of modernization, just as your programme presented today is a programme of modernization. i have no doubt that he will achieve both. good luck and good work!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is my last speech and therefore also the most confusing. the acumen of some of the speeches which preceded me has helped to confuse me. i do not know whether the president of the council will preside over the igc in rome in the full sense of his prerogatives or whether he will be, as enrique barón crespo says, an occasional guest of the mayor of that city. but above all, i don't know if the title of "human atomic bomb" belongs, as history has given it, to the unforgettable rita hayworth or should be transferred, as my friend frassoni wants, to vice president fini. so, to put my values in order, i decided to make a somewhat obtuse but clear statement, something like 'god, fatherland, family', returning to the subject of europe's christian roots, which is not an ideological subject but a subject of democratic procedures. in fact, that reference is not a contribution to the clerical anxiety of certain social groups, but the historical memory of the truest meaning of our institutions. the democratic institutions are the result of a pact of freedom between citizens who cede to them a part of their sovereignty in exchange for guarantees and services. from this point of view, states, and even more so supranational institutions, are guarantors of the attempts we citizens make to meet our needs - they are guarantors, not masters - and they are such because they are clear that they cannot be the exhaustive answer to the desires of the human heart. the reference to the christian roots of europe is nothing but the awareness, on the part of today's europe, of the fact that, without the link to the unitive and personalistic tension of christianity, europe has always been more fragile, more exposed to the political shortcut of totalitarianisms which, always, in order to be able to deny man to the end, have preferred to begin by denying god, albeit with motives more soft than today's politically correct.
- this concludes voting time. (the sitting was suspended at 2.20 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
- the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on chechnya. i welcome mr frattini, president-in-office of the council, to this house.
- thank you, mr staes. we assure mr erkel's father of our full solidarity.
mr president, mr president-in-office, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i really believe that there is no one more blind than someone who does not want to see. what kind of political process are we talking about? we saw a referendum in which less than 15 percent of the population voted, in which some western journalists in grozny were able to vote: what more do we need to prove how phony it was? i am pleased to learn that mr oostlander, who has been to chechnya, has found that the process of normalization, which his friend mr putin has been talking about, has produced no results for months. what is happening in chechnya is a terrorist policy of a state which has succeeded - and we do not mention this in the resolution - in killing 200,000 people over the course of ten years. which has succeeded in producing, out of a population of one million, 300,000 refugees; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. and that would be the normalization process! if we want to pretend, in the name of a large potential russian market, that this policy of terror of the russian federation in chechnya does not exist, we can continue to do so; but then we are - and we must be aware of this - accomplices in genocide, because when you kill 20-25 percent of a people in less than ten years, that's called genocide. this is worse than bosnia, this is worse than kosovo. mr president of the council, i believe - as mr staes has said - that the problem is one of negotiation between the two parties, that is between president putin and president mashkadov; all the rest is pure and simple lies that we tell ourselves in the name of interests that we do not want to admit.
mr president, commissioner, one of the things i have learned from my participation in this delegation is that the word 'peace' in chechnya is a completely false word today. there have been three thousand deaths since the beginning of the year, and forty-nine mass graves have been discovered, some of which can be attributed to terrorism, while the majority are the result of the daily violence of an army posing as an occupying force. the referendum was a simulation of normalcy. it's hard to hang normality from the barrel of a kalashnikov in a country. in view of all this, we believe that the political solution must really be a political solution and to be such, minister frattini, i turn to you: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to participate in the negotiations. former president mashkadov was democratically elected by the chechen people at the end of the first world war. today, former president mashkadov is a key reference point if we want to achieve real peace, true peace. the risk is that chechnya too will become a permanent theatre of war, where old hatreds are overlapped by new ones. a final recommendation to minister frattini and the commission. let's get russia involved in this peace process and hold it accountable. to continue today to look forward to the possibility of russia's joining the european union, without considering the persistence of this conflict as an element that in any case causes difficulties in relations with the country, is certainly not an argument that serves to facilitate this peace process. today's talk of russia's entry is not only absolutely premature but also potentially very damaging for the fate of chechnya.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. i have received seven motions for resolutions tabled on the basis of rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. see minutes of the sitting.
- the agenda calls for the commission statement on the preparation of the world trade organisation meeting (cancun, 10/14 september 2003).
mr president, commissioner, i too hope that the cancún meeting can be a meeting for development, but it must be above all for the development of international trade, for further liberalization of trade. we europeans must be careful not to load the agenda with elements which are foreign to trade liberalization, because we would end up putting lead in the wings of the negotiations. you said, commissioner, that we have done what was necessary with regard to the cap. i think we have done the minimum necessary to prevent the negotiations from being buried once and for all, but we have done no more, we have done too little and too late: the community's agricultural policy remains a strongly and rigidly protectionist system. my colleague nicholas clegg has already spoken on this. i wanted to take the example of sugar: how can we say that the community's agricultural policy is not protectionist, for example on sugar? what does sugar have to do with rural development? what does sugar have to do with environmental or social clauses? we are still strictly protective of the sugar industry, to the detriment of the farming community in mozambique, for example. and the sugar problem - pure protectionism and nothing else - is just one example. on this basis, commissioner, europe will still be in very serious trouble in cancún.
commission - mr president, as the speeches have shown, multilateral trade negotiations in the 21st century have many facets and, in a way that is in some ways inseparable, at least for us europeans, they combine interests and values. we also heard that there are questions of major balances on the international scene, between north and south, north and north and south and south. i would like to answer briefly a number of your comments, grouping them into three themes: first, those relating to market access, then those relating to the rules of international trade and finally, several other issues which are not necessarily directly related to the two previous ones but which deserve clarification. on market access first, with regard to the industrial sector, i agree with what has been said. we must go in the direction that a number of developing countries want. it's in their interest and it's in ours. but let us remember that there is also a south-south interest in trade liberalization for manufactured goods. trade in manufactured goods still accounts for 80% of world trade. so there are all the dimensions i mentioned, and mrs ferrer is right in saying that in these matters we must not stop at tariff issues, but we must also look at non-tariff barriers. you have all - and this is quite normal - spoken a lot about agriculture: the news wants it. it is true that the reform of the common agricultural policy which was adopted last week is yielding more spectacular results in terms of discipline - the question of budget support for our farmers - than in terms of promises of wider market access for the future. however, we have not yet agreed to confirm, in a way, at the level of the world trade organisation, the disciplines we have decided between ourselves. we are free to confirm or not to confirm them internationally and we will do so if others do the same. there are therefore counterparts to be found and that is what we are going to do now, since the support is actually used to compensate for a number of handicaps or to take account of a number of concerns which are those of european consumers and citizens. as mrs auroi and mr bernier have said, we are indeed compensating for such additional handicaps or constraints with our support. mr clegg asks whether there is still room for market access in the negotiations. i am sure that it will enable mr fischler and myself to keep a low profile on the question of how much money we have in our pockets. negotiating with transparent pockets is an exercise mr clegg knows is not convenient. so our pockets will not be transparent in a public session like today's. however, he is right and so is mr della vedova. the forthcoming sugar market reform, which mr fischler and the commission have announced for the autumn, is probably more promising in this respect for a product of great interest to developing countries. i would remind you - and i am replying to mr souchet - that this reform of the common agricultural policy was made for european reasons, by europeans and for europeans. it is all the better if it improves our position in an international negotiation, but that was not the motivation in the first place. our motivation, as the berlin european council had foreseen, was to review a number of market organisations and the way our support for agriculture worked at mid-term. as regards the rules, you both mentioned access to medicines. i do not repeat what i said in my opening statement. the european union's position on this is clear: we support the december compromise and we expect the americans to agree to it, otherwise there will indeed be a major problem in cancun. as regards the non-commercial concerns, particularly those mentioned by mr van den berg, yes, they are on the table, including agricultural matters: animal welfare, the environment, food security. there are also issues relating to the regulation of international trade, such as the geographical indications mentioned by mr garot and mr cunha. you're right, i know. we cannot tell our farmers that the time has come to think less about quantity and more about quality without being logical with our agenda which is to strengthen, make more operational, make easier what the wto texts already provide for today in terms of protection: geographical indications. the last sensitive issue is the so-called singapore issues, particularly investment. our starting point has always been that a good multilateral international framework is better than a bad jungle of bilateral agreements. you have rightly said that some developing countries are not enthusiastic. not all of them! others are quite in favour of opening negotiations on these issues, particularly on investment. in fact, the developing countries who are speaking out on this issue are doing something like what i heard this afternoon in this house: some are very much in favour, some are very much against, some are for 'maybe' and some are against 'unless'. this is the situation we are in and i answer mr desir that, in this choice between the jungle of the bilateral and the multilateral order, i have often heard him speak in a more multilateral way than this afternoon. what course should we take? we must remain firm on the need to address these issues, while addressing the justified and repeated concerns of a number of developing countries that by entering into multilateral agreements on these issues they would reduce their economic policy space. we must find ways of dealing with this concern. in any case, in general terms, i remain convinced that multilateralism is better than bilateralism in these areas. on special and differential treatment and implementation issues, i believe i indicated in my initial speech that the european union was open and that it was rather a matter of convincing other northern partners, the united states, japan, canada, to show a little more flexibility. we're working on it. i shall deal with two or three more questions. as regards cotton, mr van den berg, for once the union is not the one being accused by the developing countries. as far as cotton is concerned, we do not export it. we import a lot of cotton and the production we have does not give rise to any export support. we must produce two to three per cent of the world's cotton. so today it is the united states that is in the spotlight on this issue. mrs mcnally and mr van den berg spoke about the basic standards of work. unfortunately, this subject is not on the agenda for cancun, because it was not on the agenda for the negotiating round launched in doha. the cancun programme covers some of the issues raised in doha, but not all. we cannot, however, add new subjects to the doha agenda. you know our position: we regret that we have not been able to achieve a better articulation between the basic labour standards and the rules of the world trade organisation. we have, in a way, turned to our bilateral policies to do that. so we cannot, unfortunately, expect good news from cancun on this point. we will have to wait for another round of negotiations before we can put the matter back on the table. as regards the commission's opinion on the association of parliament at the end of the negotiations, i have no objection, on behalf of the commission, to the outcome of the cycle being decided by a vote of the european parliament, unless of course the council of ministers has a different opinion. in any case, the commission's position is what i have just given you and i am responding to mrs mann and mr clegg. mr suominen, we are working on russia's accession to the wto. i am spending my day here today with my colleague, german gref, who is the russian minister for economic affairs and finance and mr putin's negotiator. this is probably our sixth negotiating session and you have given him, thanks to the debate this afternoon, the opportunity to take a walk in the beautiful city of strasbourg, and i am sure he will be very grateful to you for that. we have discussed the gats, mrs auroi, mrs boudjenah, just a few weeks ago. the european parliament has taken a position. i'm not going back to that. finally, the good news that mrs mann has given us about the joint event in cancun of the european parliament and the international parliamentary union, and the work that she, mr schwaiger, mrs plooij-van gorsel and many others have done to involve national parliaments more closely in the work of the wto, is indeed good news for the commission. you know we support your efforts in this area.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. i have received six motions for resolutions tabled on the basis of rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. see minutes of the sitting.
- the agenda calls for statements by the council and the commission on the international criminal court.
commission - i would just like to say a word, mr president, to respond to a point that many speakers have mentioned, which is this announcement by the united states of the suspension of its military assistance to countries that refuse to commit themselves to agreements that exempt americans from the provisions of the agreement on the international criminal court. we are not surprised by this news, but we regret it and, as the council presidency has just said, we deplore it. and we note, on the other hand, with some satisfaction, that many countries have been able to withstand the pressures they have been subjected to. i believe that the courage shown by these countries in working towards the success of the agreement on the international criminal court deserves both our respect and our admiration. i would conclude by saying that once again the pressures on these countries are all the more inappropriate, all the more incomprehensible, inappropriate because incomprehensible, since the statute of the court provides for a means of responding to american concerns, concerns which in some respects we can understand, as many of you can. why, when solutions exist, do we insist on trying to go further? this attitude can only leave us both in doubt.
- i thank the president of the council and commissioner lamy. i am sure that parliament will support all efforts to ensure that the commission and the council presidency achieve positive results in their relations with the united states government. i must say, also on the basis of my personal experience, that it would be appropriate to find a more sensitive ear than the one we found as a delegation of the european parliament when we raised this problem with the chairman of the foreign affairs committee of the united states congress, who replied to us in an undiplomatic manner. we have our courts and our constitution, and we will never allow a citizen of the united states to be tried and judged outside of them. i am sure that there are more sensitive ears in the us administration and in the us congress.
the rapporteur. mr president, we are about to come up with a report, an initiative of the commission which this parliament has welcomed with great enthusiasm and which seems to us to be one of the most important points of the work done by the committee on regional policy in recent years: the european union is committed to a single european sky, with efficiency, safety and cost-effectiveness as its objectives. it is clear that the single sky is a reality of behaviour and rules, not a literary metaphor: rules and synergies that must be defined, applied and respected. the commission proposal, mr president, has had the merit and the courage - we acknowledge the commissioner, mrs de palacio - to raise this issue with rigor and urgency, even in the indication of deadlines. one year ago parliament had the merit of accepting the commission's challenge at a particular moment, after 9/11, at a time when discussing safety in the skies entailed an added value of sensitivity, reasoning and attention. parliament has accepted this challenge and has supported this draft with a broad and convincing consensus, which was approved at first reading and which has been entrusted to a few simple rules which we hope will be reaffirmed and applied. the most basic rule is that there must be harmony and synergy between all the institutions, bodies and agencies which are called upon to achieve the objectives of the single sky - efficiency, safety and cost-saving - and therefore, above all, attention, punctuality and the definition of a clear relationship between eurocontrol - the agency which has been responsible for the technical know-how of managing the european skies - and the commission, the european union. in this sense we have managed to reach a very precise point of balance, which gives the commission the function, the responsibility for the management, the political governance of this single european sky and asks eurocontrol to make its expertise, its experience and its technical know-how available. another key point is the sanctions: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the word 'sanction' is always an unpleasant word, a word which must always be spoken with great modesty and with great care, but a necessary word in this case. it has been since the days of cesare beccaria: if we do not have a system of sanctions, we can hardly be sure that the rule is being respected. and this is a system of rules that allows no exceptions, except in some very particular cases; it is a system of rules based on the quality of respect, otherwise the idea of a single sky is lost. thirdly, cooperation between the civilian and military sectors. cooperation between civil and military authorities is the key point: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's common security and defence policy (csdp) and its implementation in the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. well, in relation to all this the common position is probably affected by a climate, after 9/11, which is much more attentive to the reasons of national sovereignty and national defence. it is, however, a position which we consider to be quite conservative. the cooperation between the civilian and military sectors is one which is largely being neglected. the one sky loses one of its most defining features. we believe that there is perhaps a naivety of perspective here. we believe that cooperation between civil and military authorities should not be seen as a limitation on the sovereignty of the member states but as a great opportunity, an opportunity which is also guaranteed by an extended safeguard clause and which we have limited ourselves to preventing from being extended to simple exercises, otherwise the very idea of a single european sky would be lost. mr president, i have nothing more to add. i have briefly summarized the main points of the political and institutional aspects of this report. i hope that in the weeks and months to come, in a calm trilogue with the other institutions, this parliament will be able to contribute to the rapid establishment of a system of rules which will be a point of merit for the work of the commission, the council and, of course, this parliament: to finally have a single sky which is a place of safety that we make available to the citizens of europe.
mr president, we have a few points to make. i would like to begin by saying that we, on behalf of our group, support the proposal which mr caveri has already put to the commission and which he is putting to the house, which takes up again what this parliament had already defined at first reading. a few highlights: the first is to remind ourselves what the knot is, the contradiction that we're looking at today. we are dealing with a derogation - therefore exceptional, therefore temporary - which is being asked to be extended for the second time. and this second extension shows the flexibility and the willingness, the political good sense of this parliament, of the whole parliament. on the second point, mr president, i would like to emphasize that there is a false distinction in this debate, which has been tried to insert, often surreptitiously, between those who defend nature and those who pollute. it is a false discrimination. there is a large majority that is attentive to the interests and needs of each member state, but it is a large majority that recognizes the need to dismantle this derogating system, the eco-points system, gradually over the next few years and seeks to achieve this objective by encouraging the use of ever less polluting vehicles, but also knowing that it cannot be expected that in a few months all european road hauliers will radically change their vehicles. another important point is that we felt we had to avoid a further derogation being offered, in this case on a proposal from the council, to certain countries - greece and portugal - for particularly lenient treatment. i would add nothing, mr president, except that this long debate, this long discussion, which has often had to be repeated, to go back to concepts, reasoning and even rigidity which were always the same, has been an important test, not only for parliament but for each of us: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. i believe that in this sense the caveri report has perfectly captured this request for decorum that parliament made to its rapporteur, by offering a report which serves the interests of europeans first and foremost.
mr president, i must say that i am increasingly impressed by the way in which my austrian colleagues, from all political groups, are listening to me. i admire their tenacity and their rhetorical ability to present the unimaginable, that is to say, to present a battle which i can also understand in its motivations, which is a totally national battle, which has nothing european about it, but a battle for the defence of the environment, for the defence of europe. you, mr swoboda, are asking: what do we prioritize? i believe that we must give priority to the credibility of the european union, to the fact that when we go to our countries and talk to our citizens, perhaps asking them to make sacrifices in various areas, we must be able to say that these sacrifices are made because there is a greater common good, which is called europe, which is called the community of law, which is called freedom of movement, which is called freedom of trade, which is called the whole set of common values that we are implementing. but if we cannot go along with this calm and then have to hear our fellow citizens tell us that there are some people in europe who are a-class and some who are b-class, then everything becomes difficult and the credibility of the european institution falls. the problem of living in a healthy and compatible environment is one faced by all citizens of europe, not just austrian citizens. i too regret that the level of emissions is not acceptable, but i do not see why it should be good for austrian citizens, while the problem is completely irrelevant for other citizens. so, my dear friends, commissioner, i would not want you to be mistaken on one point: we have been quick in the second reading not only because we want to go quickly to conciliation - that is also why - but because parliament, the committee on transport, is in the first reading: we have nothing to change; that is our proposal - which is already a compromise proposal - and the sooner the council understands this, the sooner we may be able to achieve a possible result. let no one be under the illusion that this proposal is far from being realistic. you can't get away from it. it must be clear that the regime is over, that the derogations are over, that the rule of law is restored, and then we will look all over the alpine area, here and there in the alps, for those warnings that will take us to 2006 by reducing emissions, because that is what we all want; but no one is under the illusion that we can go beyond a few variations. i say this not because the commission is not well aware of this, but because it seems to me that the council has not been at times. i hope, therefore, that the conciliation will give us the time needed to bring a swift conclusion to a matter which we all want to bring to a conclusion, but in compliance with community law.
we have been arguing about this for ten years, mr president, and i would not miss a round if i had to pay a ticket to get into this chamber, if only to be able to testify that we are always on the same page. the positions are identical to those of ten years ago. it was therefore inevitable to go to the solution of the attempt at conciliation; however, we are once again obliged to say 'no' to a council proposal identical to the previous one, but above all because this proposal does not take the slightest account of what has happened in this parliament, namely the broad consensus which, at first reading, rejected any possibility of extending the ecopoints scheme beyond the natural deadline of 31 december this year. the european parliament condemned, once again, the violation of the basic right of free movement of goods, but also indicated reasonable ways to ensure transit and to protect the environment to the extent appropriate. we all know the technical proposals. but while we're here trying to reach a difficult agreement on the ecopoints, what is the governor of north tyrol up to? it has introduced a rule prohibiting the transit of lorries weighing more than seven and a half tonnes for a very wide range of goods, practically all those in the construction sector, and this from 1 august on the section between the municipalities of kundl and ampass: it's almost a mockery of the debate we're having. fortunately the commission, this time at least - congratulations, madam commissioner! - was timely: the commission has immediately launched an infringement procedure on 24 june and we are now waiting to see whether there will be a verdict from the court of justice or whether tyrol will reconsider and withdraw this measure, which directly conflicts with article 38 of the treaty on the free movement of goods. it is important to act quickly, however, because we must avoid another type of damage, in addition to the ecological one: the economic one, which goes against the interests of all road hauliers, many of whom have since declared bankruptcy. i live in the region just across the brenner, and we always ask ourselves: why do austrians demand such enormous respect? how is it that, since the damage is the same for us, none of us ever thought of inventing ecopunts or such tricks?
the rapporteur. i am pleased to present to the house the recommendation for second reading on the regulation on assistance and compensation to air passengers in the event of denied boarding, long delays and cancellations. i think it is useful to sum up briefly the developments which have taken place since this proposal was presented last year. the first reading was approved in this house last year and had already highlighted the weaknesses of the commission's initial proposal. the 39 amendments adopted by parliament were mainly aimed at making the legislation more consistent with the real needs of passengers and more practical for airlines. the council's common position, while substantially altering the form of the regulation, has since incorporated a number of concerns raised by parliament: i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. since the perhaps most thorny issue - the total amount of compensation - has, we can say, been resolved to the satisfaction of almost all colleagues at this point, i shall only mention the remaining open questions which are the subject of this second recommendation. the first concerns tour operators and their right of recourse. the result of the vote in the committee on transport was not, in my view, entirely satisfactory, and now we have a recommendation which is partly contradictory on the tour operators issue. in fact, in the opinion of the speakers, there is a need for minor changes in the definition of tour operators and the reciprocity of the right of recourse - amendments nos 5 and 16 - but overall the council's position has, from this point of view, well focused the problem, since it has placed the overall and general responsibility on the carrier operating the service. it is for this reason that i do not agree with amendments nos 1 and 9, nor with the second part of amendment no 17, which was the subject of a split vote. the second theme is the mileage bands. the first reading of the parliament adopted a single distance criterion, namely the division into three kilometre bands for delays, compensation and the placement of passengers in a lower or higher class. the council, on the other hand, adopted three different criteria in its common position and also introduced a new one, that of the intra- or extra-european union; however, from this point of view, there is no clear justification for this addition. this creates a disparity which does not help the clarity of the legislative text and certainly does not help the passenger to understand exactly what his rights are. that is why we propose that the three different council proposals be brought together again under a single criterion: the commission has also proposed that the maximum length of the three-mile band be increased to three kilometres for all cases. then there is the issue of cancellations. the council's proposal, the result of a laborious compromise, does not, in my view, provide the necessary clarity and risks making communication with passengers very difficult. i have taken the liberty of proposing a single compromise amendment in this field to define clearly when passengers are entitled to assistance, especially in relation to cancellation, and to define a single deadline - five days before the scheduled departure - beyond which passengers may be entitled to financial compensation. i ask my colleagues to follow this position which is precisely trying to make it clearer and more communicated to passengers and also to the airlines what we are talking about. as regards delays, immediate assistance should be guaranteed in the event of long delays, so information, assistance, refreshments, possibly accommodation, while we believe that re-routing and reimbursement of the ticket - fully justified for cancellations and for denied boarding - would, in the event of delays, represent an incredible complication and would trigger a chain of delays that would paralyse air traffic. finally, an amendment was tabled on entry into force, which i think should be accepted because it is common sense: we give the companies time to get equipped, and 12 months is the proposal we make. in conclusion, apart from a few other small comments on amendments which are not of substance, i believe that at this point, if we succeed in approving this proposal, there may be a somewhat more constructive attitude on the part of the council, which gives me confidence that we can close this dossier soon, in the interests of passengers but also of the airline industry.
mr president, commissioner, allow me to join in wishing governor duisenberg successes in the future on a par with those he has achieved at the european central bank. i won't wish you luck with your fishing, governor, because as an italian and a southerner, it seems to bring bad luck in this field. i also congratulate my colleague hans blokland, whose report focuses on the role of the european central bank in europe and the role it will have to play in the forthcoming accession of the ten new countries. the primary objective of the european central bank, as laid down in the treaties, is to conduct monetary policy in europe and, through it, to ensure price stability. i am personally convinced that, apart from this primary attribution, the european central bank must have a more incisive role in the economic field, also using moral suasion formulas which have achieved surprising results in the field of banking supervision. i would like to make a few comments on the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the stability and growth pact must be read in a uniform way so as not to undermine the credibility of the euro area and, consequently, the effectiveness of its monetary policy. considers that the european central bank should confirm to the commission the application of a pact which also has a functional flexibility for growth. it was created not only to achieve stability but also to push growth to acceptable levels. growth as the core objective of the compact can also be achieved by investments in major works and financial commitments on research outside public spending. of course, this choice cannot become the excuse for abandoning the rigorousness of public accounts and must be supported by a complete sustainability of fiscal policy, so well implemented in the united kingdom. the draft convention, which was recently approved, also contains legislation on the european monetary institutions, or rather on the role of the ecb and the national central banks and their delicate relationship. some national central banks feared that they would be severely reduced in size, with the result that power would be centralised in frankfurt. the european central bank was not intended to become a full-fledged institution, with the obviously false motivation that this would jeopardise the independence of the monetary institution. in this arms race between the european central bank and the national central banks, not much clarity has been given and only in paragraph 3 of article 29 can we have an exhaustive definition: the european central bank shall be an institution with legal personality. in assessing the other options in this field, we cannot ignore the fact that in europe, in parliament as elsewhere, the strategy of compromise is being used, which often, far from approaching distant situations, in many cases creates uncertainty and confusion in the subject under discussion. these compromises have led to a complicated voting system for the bank's board of directors, an unintelligible distribution of the money between the various monetary institutions for the printing of banknotes, but above all to the maintenance of a decentralized system which will become cumbersome and inefficient once enlargement to the east has taken place. in conclusion, beyond the decisions of the convention, the question arises whether the way forward, in order to take account of the leading role of the european central bank and the interests of the individual national central banks, is not a division of labour between the centre and the periphery, with a consequent specialisation of the national central banks which should also maintain supervision over smaller financial institutions. i hope that many of these doubts will be cleared up at the intergovernmental conference.
mr president, mr president duisenberg, mr commissioner, mr rapporteur - author of a good report - i would like to use this minute and a half to make a few brief remarks on the management of the european bank by mr duisenberg, a bank which i believe has qualified not so much for the successful operation of the introduction of the euro as for the monetary policy approach which mr duisenberg has given it. in recent years he has played a courageous and effective role in safeguarding the independence, not only of the central bank but of monetary policy as a whole, from the repeated attempts by governments and many parts of public opinion to bend monetary policy to the short-term needs of a policy which has failed to create the conditions for success and economic growth in europe. president duisenberg this morning said: i cannot stress enough the need to accelerate the pace of structural reforms. i hope that his successor, who is also coming in a climate and a situation with procedures which we would like to see more transparent and clear, will also be able to keep track of the need for structural reforms, the need to protect the stability pact: these are the ways to protect future generations of europeans, citizens and taxpayers. i would like to conclude by wishing mr duisenberg a happy birthday, which is coming up in a few days, and wishing all of us in this parliament, all of us european citizens, that mr duisenberg's successor will be a worthy successor.
madam president, i think it is very important that this parliament should start today to make a first assessment of the introduction of the euro, a year and a half after its entry into the european market. the introduction of the single currency was undoubtedly a very valuable step forward, and not just in economic and financial terms. it is worth recalling once again that the euro area is the second largest economic area in the world. but the single currency has also contributed to a small revolution in terms of, so to speak, culture and identity. the circulation and use of the single currency has brought consumers together in a concrete way, which has also made them feel more like european citizens for the first time. nevertheless, these same citizens, who have passed with great ease, beyond all positive forecasts, the transition from individual national currencies to the common european currency, now demand that the community institutions keep a close watch to avoid unjustified - and often very significant - increases in the prices of both goods and services. above all, as the report also points out, these citizens are asking us for small, practical and concrete interventions in the future, capable of making everyday life easier. in particular, citizens are asking us to introduce one euro notes and, in some cases, fifty cent notes, as well as to increase the availability of small denominations, especially at atms. i think these are absolutely legitimate and very reasonable requests. i also think it is very important that this parliament should make a strong effort to demand from the relevant community institutions that these small but very important demands of the european citizens be met.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are discussing today is fully in line with the european policy on equal opportunities, which, as we know, is based on two main pillars: specific actions for women and gender mainstreaming, i.e. the introduction of the gender perspective at all stages and levels of public policies by all actors involved in decision-making processes. gender budgeting is the application of the principle of gender mainstreaming in budgetary procedures. as we all know, the budget is not a neutral instrument, but reflects the distribution of power in society. in defining revenue and expenditure policies, public budgetary authorities at all levels make policy choices. the budget is not a mere economic instrument but a key instrument with which political authority defines the model of socioeconomic development and the criteria for redistribution within society; it decides the priorities of intervention in relation to the policies and needs of its citizens, producing different impacts and effects on them depending on whether they are women or men. the way public budgets are normally constructed ignores the diversity of roles and responsibilities between women and men. in most cases, the indicators and data used do not distinguish by gender, presenting themselves as a neutral economic instrument: the public budget, in fact, reflects and reproduces the socioeconomic inequalities already present in a community. analysing fiscal policies according to their differentiated gender impact and redefining them accordingly is a way of ensuring that public budgets respond to the needs of equity and economy. public spending is not only efficient but also fair when it is able to promote development and to exploit the full potential of all parts of society. it is therefore a matter of adopting an economic and social philosophy according to which, even within an open and globalised market economy, economic and social development are inseparable and mutually nourishing. an economy cannot be competitive, dynamic and healthy over time unless, behind the production, trade and financial processes, there is a stable, cohesive and just society, where human rights, resources and capacities are adequately developed. the strengthening, modernisation and reorganisation of public interventions, and therefore also of budgetary policies, for social development is in reality an intangible investment in capacity, empowerment, the creation of resources and opportunities which is absolutely indispensable for economies which want to be dynamic and competitive as they are based on knowledge, as the european council set out to do in lisbon. if this is the first time that this parliament has discussed gender budgeting, it is not a new concept. the platform for action drawn up in beijing on the occasion of the fourth united nations world conference on women makes explicit reference to this; a working group of experts has been set up within the directorate-general for human rights of the council of europe; the commission itself, following the conference organized by the belgian presidency, set up an expert group. but there are also many experiences in western countries, starting with australia, which adopted this instrument in 1984, as well as many developing countries, and in recent years, interesting experiences within the european union, both at national and local level. what are the specific objectives of this report? firstly, to raise awareness among the public, political and economic actors at all levels; to raise awareness of the gender budgeting approach strategy at the level of the union institutions, member states; calls on the commission, which has already expressed its support, to produce an information brochure on gender budgeting for widespread dissemination; involve, at all levels, the actors working in the field in participating in the construction of the budget; but above all, to indicate a framework for action for the implementation of gender budgeting, which provides for democratic participation from below and the involvement of organised actors, from non-governmental organisations to women's associations. i conclude, madam president, with this reference: where these experiences are already taking place, especially at local level, they have also broken the indifference and detachment which we now see at all levels between citizens and public authorities. it is a great instrument of participation, as well as of justice.
mr president, that is amendment no 21a. i propose that the words 'and armed opposition forces which continue to recruit child soldiers' be added to the words 'strongly condemns the governments' in order to condemn the governments and armed opposition forces which use child soldiers.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that cambodia is also important for its neighbours, who, as mrs juncker said, are in a much more serious situation, vietnam and laos in particular. i would like to thank all my colleagues, because i think this is a good resolution. that said, we always come back to the half-empty or half-full bottle story: in this case, it is rather half-empty for mr nassauer and rather half-full for mrs junker. however, i think the main thing now is the elections. the national electoral commission has set good standards. she does a remarkable job. we've come a long way too. the situation in january and february was extremely worrying. violence still exists today. but if we compare the situation today with what happened in the last elections, it is better. access to the media is not perfect, but it is better. this is where our resolution is important: we must be extremely vigilant so that by 27 july the situation remains positive and the most democratic elections possible can take place.
- commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by greeting the royal highnesses of laos who are in our gallery, the members of the royal family of laos, the president of the lao movement for human rights and the president of the hmong community in france. i would also like to commend their struggle, because it is thanks to it that we can work here in this parliament, thanks to their tireless struggle for democracy, for the rule of law, for freedom and also for national reconciliation in their country. i think that everything has been said in this debate and mrs de keyser has rightly emphasized this point: the news given by mrs andré-léonard of the probable release of the belgian, french and american journalists will not mean the release of the four laotians who accompanied them and who will end up in vientiane jails for 10, 15 or 20 years. this case of journalists is just one more element, one more proof that what is happening in laos is extremely serious, that this regime is absolutely corrupt, that this regime should be investigated by interpol and all the international financial organizations, so much is the trafficking, and that the policy of the european union towards laos should change. any policy of complacency only strengthens the extremist elements within the lao regime. we must adopt a policy of firmness and strive to give strength to all those within the laotian regime who want to work towards a policy of democratization, a policy of reconciliation. this is fundamental. we have instruments, we give €160 million a year under trade agreements in the textile sector alone. we have dozens of cooperation projects. we really must make a very strict assessment and tell the lao regime that, in the absence of specific, concrete reforms in the judicial sector, in the information sector, in the economic sector and in the political sector, we will end all forms of cooperation.
mr president, i am replacing mr mauro, who has tabled the motion for a resolution. the escalation of conflict in northern uganda is reaching unprecedented proportions and is shaping up to be a real human catastrophe. about one million people are displaced in the acholand and lango and iteso regions. earlier this year, the acholi religious peace initiative seemed to have achieved unprecedented results. several meetings have taken place between the religious leaders and the rebels; a presidential peace commission was also established with broad mandates; the lra and the government have called for a ceasefire. in may, for the first time, the groups' consultative meeting discussed the crisis in northern uganda as a national issue, with significant contributions from civil society. despite these tentative signs of hope, the conflict has worsened severely in the past two months. for the first time since this harrowing story began, the rebel activity intensified and lasted for more than six months, breaking those traditional cyclical patterns of violence that at first had the characteristics of temporary and non-stationary sliding. the lra has also been involved in the recruitment and use of armed groups, including the fdlr, to carry out attacks on the lra. joseph kony, the leader of the self-styled lord's resistance army, spoke out again on monday, telling his men to kill anyone they come across, including the elderly and children, and spare only pregnant women, to kill priests and missionaries in cold blood and to beat nuns in cold blood. the madness was spread over the frequency used by the network of relay transmitters provided to the catholic missions in northern uganda. the rebels, in fact, having plundered numerous catholic parishes in recent months, have the same radio transmitters used by the missionaries for their internal communications. in addition, despite the worsening humanitarian situation and an apparent increase in rebel activity, the ugandan government has stated that the situation is still under control. in this connection i would like to emphasize the efforts of the european commission, which is making efforts, including through extensive field inspections, to bring relief to these populations. in this confused time, marked by violence, terror and war, the real danger is that we will turn to the power of arms as the only way of responding to this grave situation. on the other hand, there is a risk that the international community and the people will take refuge in indifference, reducing this disaster to an affair of the acholi people. it is necessary to heed the cry of the people and the chiefs of acollyland: history has sadly proven that forcing a people to submit will never bring peace.
- mr president, the resolution contains something inaccurate: it mentions 'before' and 'after' the electoral period. since the election period has begun, it should be said during and after the election period.
mr president, i was in romania before august, in order to carry out a task assigned to me by the robert schuman foundation, of which i am secretary-general. i met with groups of businessmen and, above all, farmers and ranchers. i have collected a complaint which i would like to address to the commissioner and to all the members of the delegation for relations with that country. farmers in particular complained of unacceptable delays in the implementation of the ispa and sapard programmes, delays that they explicitly said were due to the poor functioning of the government agency that is supposed to act as a filter: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would ask you, mr president, to bring this matter to the attention of the romanian delegation in the conference of presidents, and i would ask the commissioner to intervene in his capacity as commissioner.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank commissioner barnier for his clear and comprehensive explanation of the commission's activities, which has always dealt with the dramatic problem of this summer. i have a few questions about one thing: i find it difficult to distinguish between drought and fire, especially in environmental and economic outcomes. if there is a difference, it is because, unfortunately, in many cases fires are caused by the madness of a man, an arsonist, whereas it is very difficult to find bad faith in a drought. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the drought of recent months is yet another demonstration of how the undeniable climate change on the planet is having an undeniable effect on the environment, and in particular on our agriculture. unfortunately, extreme events have become the norm: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the effects of the drought, rain, cyclones and floods which are unfortunately affecting europe, particularly the mediterranean and eastern europe, and which are ultimately costing agriculture a very heavy price, because they are opening up an economic crisis, creating a gap in production costs and severely reducing the margins of the market for agricultural products, so that in a summer like this, even the continuation of business activity in large parts of europe is being jeopardised. mine doesn't want to be just a painting in dark colors; i am aware of the situation and would like to identify instruments of aid and support for agriculture. in this case, it would be important for the commission, in general, to make a careful assessment and adopt concrete instruments to analyse and act on the quantity and quality of european water resources for the next decades, and especially on the ways of saving them. then there are the immediate needs. i believe that although the extent of the damage caused by the drought, which will become apparent at the end of the cropping and harvesting operations, could or will determine the activation of the european solidarity fund, it would be essential at the same time to be able to benefit, as in other moments of declared emergency, from the opportunity to advance payment of community premiums to farmers. in this sense, the establishment of a european summit coordinating all the actors concerned with disaster emergencies could be a useful instrument, necessary to support action in favour of the situation, in particular the agricultural economy. not immediately but soon, an estimate of the damage, although difficult but certainly close to the threshold for benefiting from the solidarity instruments to which i referred earlier, may require careful reflection on the part of the commission and a proposal to arrive at a multi-risk reform up to date with the new climatic conditions of our continent. this would certainly be a very useful, completely innovative tool to support our agriculture.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as far back as 2000, i deplored the fact that, despite the process of catching up with the poorest regions and member states, the gap between the least and most developed regions of the community has hardly narrowed, thanks to eu support for regional development. the disparities in regional development persist. this is also the view taken in the report by mr mastorakis, to whom i would like to extend my warmest congratulations. despite all the efforts of european and national regional policy makers, we are facing challenges in 2003 that are not going to diminish. these are even greater when one considers the economic stagnation and the sharp increase in unemployment in many european countries. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in december. the enlargement of the european union to include ten more countries in central and eastern europe will not only increase regional disparities and thus increase the burden on cohesion enormously, but also, as the current 2000-2006 funding period draws to a close, the debate on the shape of future regional policy from 2007 onwards will come to the fore. in my view, the assessment of the criteria of development and thus the eligibility of a region is a priority issue. regional development factors such as the rate of industrialisation, the level of poverty and social exclusion, the level of unemployment, the research and development potential, training capacity, the sustainability of development, the development of environmental protection must be taken into account in addition to the currently only criterion of gross domestic product per capita achieved. i am particularly concerned, as are other colleagues from objective 1 regions, that these special regions are not excluded from this highest level of support because of the change in the calculation resulting from the accession of the new member states. they should be subject to the principle of being entitled to the same financial and aid support as before enlargement. i also support mr mastorakis' report on the content of the future objective 2 area, i.e. structural change, and objective 3 measures for disadvantaged groups, and the eligibility of these measures.
president, ladies and gentlemen, we must reflect - and i am referring to the processes which led to enlargement - on the overall analysis which has led both the european commission and parliament to discuss this important issue. i took the liberty some years ago of submitting to president prodi a paper of mine on the relationship between enlargement and the consequences it would have in certain regions of our community, particularly in those of southern italy. since the end of the war, a strange phenomenon has been taking place: whereas the axis of history used to see east and west as opposed to each other, as if by a strange enemy of history itself, we are now faced with a european community whose problems are between north and south, and always between a rich and opulent north and a poor south. the enlargement has therefore accompanied our reflections and we are led to believe that a war between the poor cannot be brought about, even considering the consequences of such a process. i am preparing a report on european public finances in 2003: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. even countries which had more or less balanced their budgets a few years ago now find themselves with negative projections for the future. how, then, are these structural funds to be managed? the rapporteur's colleagues are right to give us general guidelines in their reports. i think we must ensure that there are no general objectives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems clear to me - as it is clear to the rapporteur and the commission - that we cannot have an ideological approach to cohesion policies and the structural funds, but that a very pragmatic approach is needed, which is the approach followed by the rapporteur and certainly also by the commissioner in his work. the future of the european union is closely linked to the future and quality of cohesion policies. only if we do not have a two- or three-speed europe, which is the risk we are running, can we really talk about a process of political integration. for this to happen, certain conditions must be met: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is based on the principle of the free movement of goods. it is essential, as many colleagues have said, to set the threshold of 0.45% as the minimum threshold, in the sense that the european union's commitment to cohesion policies cannot fall below this percentage, and it is good that this should be taken as a political principle and not just as an arithmetical principle in the face of the choices awaiting the european union on the eve of enlargement. we must avoid, as has been said by other members and as i would like to remind you, that some regions suddenly become rich as a result of statistical effects. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the regions eligible for objective 1 are not excluded from the enlargement process. in this sense, i believe that the next constitutional treaty should clearly recognise these permanent geographical handicaps and the need for a community strategy to remove them. the declaration which was annexed to the treaty of amsterdam on the structural disadvantages of islands was never translated into concrete measures. we would also like to call on the commission to make a greater effort to simplify the rules for implementing regional policy and to make a clearer allocation of responsibilities and powers between all those involved in cohesion policy, just as we would like to call on the commission to continue the effort which has been made so far to indicate certain priorities in cohesion policies. we think how important it is today to invest in the quality of knowledge, the quality of knowledge, innovation, technological research and intangible infrastructure. we believe that the future of europe must be measured less by the amount of reinforced concrete we can produce and much more by the quality of the knowledge we can offer. in europe, mr president, the rich regions are certainly not in danger of becoming poor. on the contrary, some regions risk remaining poor for a long time: we'd like to avoid that.
mr president, i believe that economic and social cohesion is the betting ground for the future of the european union, the union of 25. the enlargement will once again bring the tragedy of the complete lack of concrete answers to an objective which was also the one on which the european union and the treaties that preceded it were founded. it is enough to think that a survey conducted a couple of years ago showed that lombardy was one of the top 20 richest regions and that sicily, my home country, was ranked 67th. this gives an idea of how far the objectives of a correct, sound and effective policy of economic and social cohesion are still to be achieved. it lacked a strategy, it lacked the will to act, it lacked a polycentric europe. the south of italy and the mediterranean remained on the margins of a concrete growth and development strategy. the difficulties are not only linked to geographical marginalisation, which alone would be sufficient to justify massive and effective action; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the minimum threshold for european union intervention must therefore be defended, the bleeding of people leaving mountain areas must be stopped, action must be taken on the disadvantaged islands, which are not only disadvantaged because of their remoteness from the mainland but also because of the problems to which europe must give an immediate response.
mr president, i am speaking once again in this house on a sensitive subject, on which i and other members have spoken on other occasions and which commissioner barnier knows very well, having spoken to us on numerous occasions: the question of the future of the european union. the commission's proposal is to protect the islands, some of the most disadvantaged regions of our european union. i am pleased to note that the trend is positive and that the general approach of recognising all the geographically disadvantaged regions of the union, of which the islands are naturally the first, is widely accepted and widely successful, and this seems to us to be the commission's approach. i would like to say that the commission is very pleased that the council has taken the initiative of adopting the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. however, a few things need to be clarified: first of all, the wording of article 158. i tabled an amendment to recall that, once again, there was a long debate on this subject concerning the famous translations, which has now ended with 158 recognising all the islands. the text prepared by mr mastorakis could have been ambiguous in this respect and i have tabled an amendment to that effect. i would like to make one more point, especially in the presence of the commissioner: we have been calling for the establishment of a desk, a special office for the islands, for a long time. it was designed for the outermost regions and i believe that an office of this kind would provide valuable elements of knowledge and therefore of strategic intervention in this delicate area. i hope therefore that the amendments i have tabled will be welcomed by the rapporteurs and the commission and that they will be accepted.
mr president, like other members, i too would like to express my full satisfaction at the conclusion of the work of the convention on the new constitutional treaty of the european union, which confirms the recognition of the constituent power of cohesion policies in all its consequences with regard to community identity and strategies. that means that we cannot ignore some difficulties and some delays. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's like trying to cure a headache by decapitating it. i don't think this is the way to go. the more effective and certainly not the less resourceful are the choices to be made on the side of a disarmed simplification, community added value for all interventions, accompanied by coordination with other policies, starting with the transport and research policies and the community agricultural policy, so that what is done with the left hand is not denied with the right hand. this must also apply to the renewed objective 2, which cannot become a source of indiscriminate compensation, indiscriminately spread over all regions because of the temptations i mentioned earlier. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the financial contribution to the structural funds. in this case, cohesion policies must have an objective definition and instruments which are permanent and continuous, not exceptional.
mr president, commissioner, i reject the label of a disadvantaged area for mountains, at least as far as mountains in general are concerned. mountains are rich in natural, economic and human resources, but they need direct and concrete action to make these resources a winning system. according to statistics, mountains cover 30% of europe's territory and with enlargement this feature, this specificity, will rise to over 40%. however, the mountains are sparsely populated - only 5% of the community's population - and the lobby is therefore rather weak. so it's up to us to help. it should also be said that not all mountains are the same and that the reform of the structural funds, by removing objectives 5a and 5b, has created considerable confusion. objective 2 is too broad and too flexible, covers too many things and puts substantially different areas of need on the same level. simplicity is not always a virtue if the rigor of scientific precision is lost along the way. there are areas in the mountains that have common priorities for all. an example comes just in these days: the protection of the environment is a key element in the protection of the environment. so this is an example of how the mountain is transversal to everyone's interests and needs. so, what can we do? we must have the courage, commissioner, to intervene with direct support towards which the disciplines on state aid and on competition rules must also be made more flexible; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. we must also have the courage to recognize this specificity in action, not just in words. what do you mean, "what"? perhaps by extending the effects of article 158 from the islands to the mountains.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, following on from the points already raised by many speakers, starting with the commissioner, the rapporteur and mr ojeda, i believe that this is a proposal for a directive which has technical content but which cannot be reduced to technical aspects. i repeat, the reasons have already been stated: the importance of the recognition of training certificates for seafarers from third countries, which can rely on common bases of proven qualifications, to protect against fraud; simplification of the procedures adopted to date, with a focus on the commission and the european maritime safety agency, overcoming the difficulties and unilateralism of the existing procedures for individual certificates of competency. against the background of these problems and the proposed solutions, on which we agree - and in doing so we appreciate the excellent work of the rapporteur and also the conclusions finally reached through the checks with the council and the trilogues carried out - there is a fundamental need to reduce somewhat the incidence of human errors in the risks of disaster, of accidents in maritime navigation which, as we know, have occurred in the past. but there's something more: we are in the process of adopting a proposal for a directive on the opening up of the market in port services, for example, which is intended to regulate the opportunities for competition linked to this development, but strictly safeguarding the requirements of safety, environmental protection and social protection, and therefore also, in this case, the essential requirements for the training and professional qualifications of crews, requirements which must be the basis of authorization procedures and also of self-production or self-help measures. for these reasons, it is of the utmost importance that crew members, regardless of their nationality, have minimum and guaranteed qualifications. for these same reasons, i would like to make just one final comment on the proposals which the rapporteur has outlined. i am referring to amendment no 10, which also allows crew members from third countries to have equal access to training and continuing training courses in the individual member states. i think we must not pass up this opportunity and insist on a solution which i think is appropriate, and that is the one proposed by the commission.
mr president, i was very anxious to speak again in this chamber, also for these explanations of vote. i must say that this regulation, presented by the rapporteur, mr ingo schmitt, is a great step forward in european policy, because it replaces a single european agreement with the united states of america with 15 and soon 25 different agreements. but mrs. bassi elvira, a pensioner from cremona, lombardy, italy, knowing that i had to speak on this subject, said to me, please note that we pensioners are still waiting for reduced fares to allow us to travel more by air. we wish to see all of europe and the whole world, but the airfare is too expensive. will we finally have a european air fare for the elderly and pensioners? other
mr president, mr watts' report refers to an agreement on maritime transport between the european union and china. i have of course voted in favour of this very important agreement between europe and china, but i always wish - and i would like to express this wish once again - that, in facilitating trade and the economy of other countries, europe should take care to monitor the respect of human rights and democracy in these states. china is still a communist state, it has a long way to go: let us help it on the road to european democracy.
mr president, when i think of mr radwan, who drew up this report on banks, i see him as i saw walt disney's paperon de paponios as a boy, sailing in the middle of gold. i do not know whether mr radwan has been bathing coins in euros or dollars this summer, in the heat of the day, but the fact remains that this report is a very good safeguard for the money that european citizens deposit in their banks. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. but when will we have rules that oblige banks to give more money to pensioners, to make it easier to lend to elderly people who, with only a few years left to live, have difficulty getting loans because they have little time to repay them?
i voted in favour of the mastorakis report, mr president, because it is really important and worthwhile for europe, and therefore also for our parliament, to help the poorer regions to become rich regions, which will then in turn help the now rich regions, which will meanwhile have become poor. i must point out, however, that it would be good if europe defined what a region is. we know that, for example, in many countries in central europe - countries which will become member states of the european union on 1 may - there are no regions. the territorial delimitations will be drawn up on paper, figurative, imaginary, not of real and concrete geographical uniformity. so we should pay more attention to what a region is in europe!
i envy mr maccormick that he has said so much in one minute to explain his vote, whereas i can only say a few words, as i can now justify my vote in favour of mr pomés ruiz's report on cohesion policy in the islands and sparsely populated regions. the european parliament is right to take this matter to heart, and i would like to mention in particular the sami people of finland and sweden. as regards islands, which are very sparsely populated and uninhabitable, i propose that the member states should increase the pensions of pensioners living on islands. greece, for example, the home of our commissioner, mrs anna diamantopoulou, would see a sudden repopulation of the islands if pensions were higher there.
in writing. - (it) it is necessary to clarify once and for all what is meant by 'disadvantaged' when this term applies to an island as such and not just to the outermost regions. this concept has already been enshrined in declaration no 30 annexed to the treaty of amsterdam, although i must say that the various translations of this document are extremely misleading. a strategy to stimulate the development of structurally disadvantaged regions could be to make more intensive and more effective use of the structural funds. this depends to a very large extent on the provision of significantly more complete information, a more rational and flexible procedure and a more rigorous examination of the quality of projects and interventions. i would therefore like to express my support for the pomés ruiz report, which has the merit of depicting the bright sides and the dark areas, which are the most numerous, of a situation which now requires, once the basic assumptions have been identified, a financial commitment, greater courage and political will after the specific recognition of permanent structural disadvantages, the nature of which was hitherto immensely vague. the importance of a substantial transformation is therefore evident, of the application of measures consistent with this recognition through the convergence of other policies. i would like to make a special mention of the need to activate the appropriate derogations in article 87 of the ec treaty on state aid, which are indispensable if we are to bridge the economic gap that has been created and rooted, apart from geographical handicaps, in the short-term thinking of the ruling circles, including the community, for several decades.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot but congratulate and thank mr lambert very much for bringing this document, which has been awaiting discussion for five years, to the table. many pensioners who have been in serious economic difficulties due to illness or disability for a long time now, as a result of an earlier amendment to regulation 1408, do not receive their pension or sickness benefit when they change their residence within the 15 member states of the european union. amendment no 42 to article 27a by mr lambert is concerned to deal with this problem by saying that until the new state of residence begins to pay the cash benefit provided for by its own law, it is the old state of residence which pays this benefit until the disabled person begins to receive it in the new state in which he comes to live. the amendment to article 55, however, tabled by mr oomen-ruijten, mr pronk, mrs lambert, mr hughes and others, clearly states that if the new state of residence - for example france - does not provide for that benefit, the benefit does not have to be paid. i am therefore afraid that - although this is not, i believe, the intention of the majority of the committee and the parliament - if these amendments are both approved, citizens of any member state moving within the european union will continue to be without pensions. i hope i have misunderstood the intention of the italian translation. i reserve the right to clarify this point with the rapporteur and i hope that this regulation will really be a step forward in protecting european workers moving within the community.
- we cannot accept the request of mr stevenson to move on to the debate on the ojeda sanz report. we are almost a quarter of an hour late with the commission's communication and we cannot make it any worse. the debate on the ojeda sanz report will therefore take place at 9 p.m. tonight. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the agenda calls for the commission communication on the state of preparation for the fifth ministerial conference of the world trade organisation in cancun. i'd like to speak to commissioner lamy.
commission. - mr president, i shall take these questions one by one. i think mr rübig is right when he says that the stakes in these negotiations are important for small and mediumsized enterprises. this is a fancy way of saying that it is not just the big multinationals who have an interest in balanced progress in the multilateral trading system. geographical indications are a complex subject. i would like to recall briefly the union's negotiating objectives in this area. first, with regard to wines and spirits, we want a binding register to be established at the wto. we also want to extend a number of existing schemes for the protection of geographical indications for wines and spirits to other agricultural and food products. finally, we want to recover, as seems natural, a number of geographical indications, which we have listed under the auspices of franz fischler, which are important for our farmers, and which are still being usurped in other parts of the planet. mrs mcnally recalled the socialist group's position on investment. i will also say a word in reply to mrs lucas. how do we reconcile our desire for multilateral agreement on a number of investment principles to be developed at the wto with our developmental aspirations? firstly, we believe that investment is an important factor in development, that a number of simple and basic rules on transparency, predictability of investment schemes, for example, are an important contribution to investment; secondly, we are prepared to take into account a number of concerns of the developing countries in this negotiation, such as those which they have sometimes expressed and which are that such rules would reduce their political sovereignty. we are prepared to answer this question by presenting a draft which contains a number of general rules which could be adopted by developing countries which wish to do so without imposing any obligation on those which do not wish to do so. this is one way of taking into account a number of objections. i would remind mrs mcnally and mrs lucas that the developing countries are divided on this issue, some are in favour of it and some are against it, as is the case on a number of other issues. there is no north front on all issues or south front on other issues in the world trade organisation. on this point, i simply remind mrs lucas that these four subjects - investment, trade facilitation, transparency in public procurement and competition - are part of the negotiating programme, as adopted in doha, with the understanding that we must agree on the negotiating modalities, as is also the case for other subjects, agricultural issues or industrial tariffs, for example. mr olsson is right: agriculture is also not a subject which, within the wto, pits an uncompetitive and protectionist north against a competitive and liberalising south. it is enough to compare the position of brazil with that of india, or that of africa with that of indonesia or thailand to realize immediately that this is not the case. in reply to mrs frahm, i would say that our philosophy is quite clear in this discussion. firstly, agricultural trade cannot be trivialised in the way we advocate for tyres, socks, shirts or cars. the specific nature of agricultural production means that we europeans are not in favour of complete liberalisation of agricultural markets for a number of reasons. we therefore want to maintain public intervention in agriculture. the terms of these public interventions, however, need to be adapted to correct some of the disadvantages they present for agricultural policies in third world countries. we did this in 1992, in 1999 and in 2003, and franz fischler, who is here with me tonight, deserves to be honoured for the various efforts he has made on these occasions. in each case we have adapted our common agricultural policy to international trade, particularly in favour of developing countries. we're going to continue on this path. we have made negotiating commitments to further reduce our domestic support in terms of trade-damaging effects, to increase our market access, to reduce our export support. we will do this as a matter of priority for the benefit of developing countries. this is the basis of the union's negotiating position. i would like to make one final point in reply to mrs frahm. there is indeed a problem of articulation between respect for fundamental rights and the rules of international trade, just as there is between the rules of international trade and international environmental agreements or between the rules of trade and public health concerns. in the field of public health, this arbitration has just been carried out at the world trade organisation in favour of access to generic medicines. the negotiations, the programme of which was adopted in doha, include negotiations on the link between environmental and trade rules. on the other hand, there is no negotiation on the relationship between the fundamental rights of workers, and in particular the five basic conventions of the world labour organisation, and the rules of international trade, because we have not succeeded in making our point of view prevail. this was part of our negotiating objectives in doha. we have come up against a wall of the united states of america and the developing countries. they didn 't wish it; they do not want that and so far the union's position, however valid it may be - and i have always defended it vigorously because i think it is the right position - has not prevailed against the joint position of the developing countries and the united states. it is a balance of power which we have not yet been able to reverse in our favour.
- thank you, commissioner lamy. i do not think it will be possible to give the floor to all those who have asked for it, because we are running out of time.
commission. - i have listened to all these questions, mr president, and in listening to them i am afraid that the members of the european parliament are giving the lie to those who say that agriculture is the only subject on the table in cancun. i would remind you that this is not the case because there are about 19 others. on a more political level, i would point out that it is not necessarily in the union's interest to pretend that agriculture is the only subject on the table in cancun. it is not the area in which we have the most offensive interests, although we do have some - i said a word about geographical indications. i therefore hope that those of you who are concerned about the interests of the union in this negotiation will not contribute to this general presentation that says that agriculture will be the only subject at cancun. i shall nevertheless answer the questions that have been put. mr cunha is right: since the situation in the developing countries is very different, we must adopt a different approach depending on the country we are dealing with. this process must take place within the multilateral system, although it is not always very convenient to get brazil to admit that india does not have the same position as it, and vice versa, even if brazil tells us that it is in favour of full liberalisation, when we know very well that this is not the indian position. these arrangements must therefore be found within the world trade organisation. we must also involve the rest of our agricultural trade policy, which, as you know, is based on asymmetrical bilateral agreements, knowing that we are offering more openness to developing countries than we are asking for. i am thinking of the system of generalised preferences or the 'everything but arms' system, under which we have, unilaterally, in a way, made provisions for the developing countries. as regards the questions by mr o'neachtain, mr bernié and mrs maes on the relationship between the common agricultural policy, its developments and the international negotiations at the world trade organisation, my answer will be clear. on this point, the position of franz fischler, my own, the commission's and the union's is simple: we first decide on the reforms of the common agricultural policy that we consider necessary and, once we have taken these decisions, depending on what the other parties propose, we agree to put into the marble of the world trade organisation the disciplines that correspond to those we have adopted between ourselves. in short, the hen is the common agricultural policy and the egg is international trade negotiations. in so far as we are building, if i may say, our position, we are different from the americans who negotiate internationally, make commitments and then draw the consequences at the level of their own agricultural support system. therefore, our agricultural mandate is, by definition, limited by the current state of reforms of the common agricultural policy. the situation has always been perfectly clear on this point, it is seen and known by everyone. take sugar, for example. the sugar market has not yet been reformed; the commission is working on it and a proposal is expected in the coming weeks. the same is true of cotton, tobacco and olive oil. but at this stage the european union cannot engage in these negotiations, which would involve, as far as sugar is concerned, a change in the common organization of the market which we have not yet decided. in short, the situation is perfectly clear on this point. experience shows that we know how, when necessary and usually for our own reasons, to decide on reforms which give us a certain margin of manoeuvre in negotiations. as regards the agreement between the united states and the european union, or more precisely the interim framework agreement which we negotiated this summer, i reply to mr de clercq that we acted at the request of the other members of the world trade organisation. they have pressed us, the two big elephants who devote about 1% of our national wealth to supporting the agricultural sector, to agree, believing that as long as the united states and europe are on different positions, it will be difficult to move the negotiation forward. we have responded to their request. it is in fact an intermediate step which would allow us to negotiate halfway. in that case, we would have to complete the other half of the journey. we know that some countries, japan on the one hand, brazil and australia on the other, feel that the balance we have achieved is not exactly what they would like - and this is not surprising. i would like to conclude by replying to max van den berg and mrs maes, who referred to the agreement on access to generic medicines for the poorest countries. the agreement itself was the result of discussions and unanimous agreement at the world trade organisation, including two-thirds of the wto's developing country members. i am sufficiently familiar with the modalities of international negotiations to know that it is indeed the countries around the wto table that make the decisions and not others who make them for them. the interest of the developing countries, around the negotiating table at the wto, the who, the fao and the international labour organisation, is expressed by the representatives of the governments of these countries and, since they are satisfied with a decision which they have been asking for years and which they have obtained, this means for me that the negotiations are closed. i know that some non-governmental organization thinks that developing countries should have negotiated harder. rest assured, there are also, on the other side, some pharmaceutical industry organization that thinks we should have negotiated harder. this is the very principle of compromise and i cannot put myself in the place of developing countries to say what is good or not good for them. it is a political decision that has been taken and, therefore, it is this compromise that will guide our action in the years to come. however, as i said earlier, only part of the problem of access to generic medicines in the poorest countries is solved in this way: the problem of international patent law. she's 10% of the problem. we have to solve the whole part that does not depend on the patent problem: the problems of financing, production, availability, which means that 90% of the way is still to be done. this path must be taken together with other international organisations, in particular those set up to finance the fight against a number of the diseases concerned. it's a matter of development aid, it's a matter of national governance. i don't overestimate the 10% of the way that has been traveled. i have always considered, as you know, because we have been saying to you very often for three years, that we had to do this to show the way for the rest. the way is open and this is a situation of hope which we have not known about this subject for a long time, unfortunately.
- thank you, commissioner lamy. i sincerely apologise to all those who have asked for the floor, but we are already past the time limit. we must stop now to move on to question time. i know the requests for speaking time were legitimate. i did not use the dhondt system because i wanted to give at least one representative from each group a chance to speak. in this case, using the dhondt system would have penalized the smaller groups, which i wanted to avoid.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. as mrs frassoni rightly points out, the supply of water resources in spain would increase with the implementation of the spanish water management plan. the commission does not currently have detailed information or studies on the impact of such additional water supply on production in the european union and on agricultural prices. we can therefore only estimate. the commission estimates that the increase in water resources will have very little effect on the volume of agricultural products supported by community agricultural funds. for most irrigated crops, community support is already subject to a ceiling based either on the area covered, as in the case of maize or rice, or on guaranteed national ceilings, as in the case of cotton, olive oil and processed fruit and vegetables. if the area under cultivation exceeds the eligible reference area, the payments shall be reduced proportionately. the possible increases in yields or an increase in irrigated areas resulting from the spanish water management plan therefore had no impact on the total amount of payments. the implementation of the plan could also not affect milk production because of the quota system. the only sector in which production could increase is the 'fresh fruit and vegetables' sector. the sector is already very market-oriented and an increase in production would only be possible if there was a corresponding market potential. in addition, irrigation could improve the quality and competitiveness of fresh fruit and vegetables. if the invisible balance of mediterranean agriculture were affected by the spanish plans, such a development would not be supported by the community, because increases in production do not automatically entail an increase in community support.
the problem, commissioner, to which we have tried to draw your attention is that, as you yourself have said, there are still no precise estimates of what the effect of the national water plan will actually be on prices. since we do not know what the price will be for water, we obviously do not know what effect this will have on prices. i therefore ask you to pay particular attention to this aspect, because according to the latest information we have received, in addition to the increase in the supply of water in relation to the national hydrological plan, a number of desalination plants are being planned which will further increase - according to some estimates, by up to 400 cubic metres per year - the capacity for producing water in this area of spain. we feel that the commission has a special responsibility from the agricultural point of view to pay particular attention to these elements, and you yourself confirm to me that the commission is not yet in a position to do so.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs elizabeth lynne, for her excellent work, which was unanimously approved by the committee. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the european year of disabled people. the unanimous vote in committee also shows that disability is not a right-wing or left-wing issue, but one for those who care about respect for the rights, equal opportunities and dignity of all citizens. the numbers, on the other hand, are not joking: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. it is helpful to remember that anyone can become disabled at any time in life. this is particularly the case because of the ageing of society, but not only: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fact that the european parliament has not yet been consulted on the matter. this is thought-provoking data. this is why it is important to establish binding international standards to protect the rights of people with disabilities, including an appropriate monitoring mechanism. the un convention adopted last june, which has a monitoring mechanism similar to the six human rights conventions, will have to highlight the significant and widespread problems faced by people with disabilities in their daily lives, whether in terms of access, bureaucracy or social interpretation. it will therefore provide a basis for the rights of all disabled people, in all parts of the world. i believe that the european presidency, the council in its role as negotiator, will also do its utmost to obtain, by early 2004, a text that is better defined and more specific than the one presented by mexico, so that concrete standards are defined to guide the conduct of governments. i regret, however, the position taken so far by the european commission, which has not yet provided a timetable for a future horizontal directive on the rights of persons with disabilities in europe, nor has it made any specific or actual commitments to mainstreaming the rights of persons with disabilities in its policy. the directive on employment is important, the directive on access to transport is important, but more needs to be done, commissioner. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, commissioner, in the european year of the disabled the european union has the opportunity to offer a great opportunity to make up for the time lost. politics cannot restore sight to the blind, speech to the mute or movement to the infirm, but it can and must enable the handicapped to cope with the difficulties of daily life with less physical and mental fatigue and thus to have access to an even more dignified life. sometimes we see it in person it takes little to give such a possibility: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life. it is therefore the task of policy to give due attention to the problem: it is not charity or pity, but recognition of a right to a better life, as far as possible. if physical disability is accompanied by economic deprivation or even poverty - and this is the most common situation in the world - the reality becomes even more dramatic. the figures in the report are alarming: 600 million disabled people, most of them in the developing world. so we can imagine their living conditions. the uen group, on whose behalf i am speaking, is aware that much can and must still be done to tackle an important issue which affects millions of families around the world, who are waiting for concrete answers from politics and politicians to a current and ever more urgent problem. the group nevertheless acknowledges the good intentions of the commission and the correctness of the analysis carried out by the rapporteur elizabeth lynne in her report. we shall therefore vote in favour of the resolution which has the merit of restoring to so many unfortunates, struck by fate, the right to hope.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that 25 members of the house, including the president, are present here today, out of 623, certainly shows the interest in this subject - i am serious, given the time - . the question of disability and how it is treated by the law. i am convinced that we, the legislators and politicians, are responsible for the discrimination against the disabled, for all that we have not done so far. dear mantovani, we need a un resolution, legally binding, to protect the disabled, in the year 2004: they need to, because otherwise they wouldn't have their rights. and we also need a european disability directive. that makes me sad, too. i know that if commissioner diamantopoulou had the powers of a european minister - the powers of a minister in a national state - he would have solved the problem of the disabled by now, because in four years we have all recognised his sensitivity on this subject. i would like to add something that i say to myself, especially to solve the problem of disability: given how deaf our politicians are, maybe we should be putting our energies into educating young people -- the few who aren't deaf -- about respect for the disabled. finally, mr president, let me conclude by recalling a subject which is so dear to the shadow rapporteur, mr mantovani, who has been working all his life for the disabled, saying that in too many parts of the world the disabled, in addition to being disabled, are also elderly and do not have the means to live their lives as elderly and disabled people in a decent way.
- oral questions (b5-0271/2003) to the council and (b5-0272/2003) to the commission by mr brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on relations between the european union and cuba. written declarations: see minutes.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, today's debate on the situation in cuba tells us one simple thing: it tells us how difficult it is to promote and uphold human rights and democracy in the face of a totalitarian regime against which we have all experienced it, for years: the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. we have tried everything, and i think the answer is simply to harden, so much so that my socialist colleague went so far as to say: we hope that castro, who is 77, dies, and so on..., which is frankly a frustrating element for a reason. maybe we could think about something else; we might reflect that when democracies are divided against a dictator, we don't get very far. perhaps it is time to discuss the world organization of democracies, mr president, mr commissioner, to try to have a somewhat more coherent attitude and approach. come to think of it, we've tried them all. what is the point, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, of having a delegation open with an official who seems to me to be more than a hostage of the regime, certainly not a promoter, not a defender - only a symbol, certainly not a real one - of civil and human rights? the frustration is real: constructive dialogue with a dictator shows that it has limits, and the real point is: what to do? i think that the world organization of democracies is one of the instruments to be pursued with great, indeed, great determination.
commission. mr president, i have only a few very brief remarks. firstly, i should like to say to mr brok – who was very close to using rhetoric that sounded as if he wanted regime change – that nowadays we have to be careful about the exact wording in applying that type of language, especially when we discuss the methodology of such action. i totally agree with the need for pressing on with the process of democratisation and opening up political life in cuba. this is exactly what we are trying to do. secondly, there was a remark about cuban participation in the joint eu-acp parliamentary assembly: as long as cuba is not a party to the cotonou agreement, that participation is the answer. it is clearly defined and we have no problem technically or politically on that score. thirdly, two different views were expressed about the delegation in havana. it is quite clear that this delegation is not only useful in this situation but also essential in order for the commission to do what parliament expects and asks of us. we have to have a presence there. finally, i would urge that we do not cause any provocation by the way we handle things in cuba. i see a lot of turmoil behind the tragic events of this year. it is important we stick to a long-term perspective: there will be a cuba after castro and nations are more important than regimes. although we feel frustrated by the current situation, we have to realise that there are very good basic, long-term reasons for a close, friendly and harmonious relationship between europe and cuba. we have to keep that in mind and stick to a more cool-headed, long-term approach and this is what we will do on the basis of the established common position.
mr president, i simply wish that after this debate the presidency of the council, but also ourselves, should be given the opportunity to hear - as we have done for the commission - a reply, a statement on the debate itself. i therefore hope that, as you know, the rules not only allow it, but tradition suggests it, that the president of the council should speak if possible.
- that is possible, mr pannella, but it is not an obligation. i have received six motions for resolutions tabled on the basis of rule 42 (5) of the rules of procedure. see minutes of the sitting. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
mr president, there is no doubt that the text adopted by the convention represents progress for european democracy. it contains many of our demands: the integration of the charter of fundamental rights, the improvement of the legislative procedure, including the introduction of the popular legislative initiative; the introduction of certain themes as objectives of the union for the achievement of which we will fight and seek the support of citizens; the european union is a major player in the world economy, and it is a major player in the world economy. these are some of the results which make us say today that this text is also ours and that it will lead us to defend it in the coming months. but it is clear that for us the european constitutional process is not over. we do not share the view of those who feel that this was the best the convention could do. in particular, it has failed to adapt instruments and policies to its most innovative objectives, has maintained the requirement for unanimity and has further strengthened the primacy of the council in key areas of the union's competences. while we acknowledge the quality of your work, we believe that the way in which the praesidium and you, mr giscard, have guided the work of the convention, the rules chosen for its operation, must be carefully evaluated and reviewed, because they have certainly had an impact on the quality of the text adopted. it was a serious strategic error to accept from the outset that the convention was contaminated by the intergovernmental method it wanted to overcome. it is clear that this has shifted the debate from how and what the european union should do to who loses and who wins with the new rules, a typical element of an intergovernmental conference and a fundamental cause of the sad failure of nice. two concrete proposals for the future: the president of the convention must be elected by the convention itself and its work must be guided more explicitly by the parliamentary method, which is based, of course, on the search for consensus but also on the majority rule. the first is to prevent the positive results of the convention from being undermined by the efforts of the very governments which did not want it and which now want to call its work into question. that would be unacceptable and i would even say illegitimate. beyond what the treaties say, it is clear that the most important innovation of the convention was to take the monopoly of reforming the union out of the hands of governments. it is unthinkable to go back on this established fact and it is not acceptable to change essential elements of the text without the explicit agreement of at least this parliament: which is obviously very different from simply inviting a few observers to meetings. in this connection, i think it is particularly important to note the proposal by president giscard d'estaing to make the various stages of the work of the intergovernmental conference fully transparent and public. finally, mr president, it is absolutely essential to emphasise the requirement of unanimity for the revision of the constitution and to introduce the ratification power of the european parliament. if this is not possible, if the mechanism of self-blocking unanimity is maintained, it is not difficult to foresee the future: a union that is incapable of moving forward, of acting, and, in the long run, increasingly irrelevant and divided. the real historical significance of the convention's work will also depend on the italian presidency. president fini, minister frattini, you defend the text approved by the convention against some of your 'focused' colleagues; be open to improvement and work to make it evolve and change. you have our full support on that. (applause) i would like to thank
some people say that i talk too much in this parliament, in my explanations of vote, but as you know, mr president, i represent the party of pensioners in italy, and pensioners do everything, including eating fish fried in a pan. and they said to me, we like the guinea fish very much, which you will discuss, but we would like it to be caught by the guinea fishermen, not by the european fishermen who pay to go into the territorial waters of guinea and thus be allowed to fish, they, the fish that speaks guinean, to make money on it, leaving the guinea fishermen even more miserable and poor. that is why, while voting in favour, i emphasize my opposition to these fisheries agreements.
i met this morning, before i came to the european parliament, 18-year-old fatuzzo, who many years ago sailed on cruise ships between new york and the bahamas. to qualify as a seaman, i had to pass a professional examination, as do all seamen mentioned in this document. among others, there was a swimming test and a rowing test, and unfortunately it was customary to tip the rowing man, who rowed in place of the aspiring sailor. my question is this: i would like to ask the commissioner whether this document allows us to check how maritime diplomas are awarded by third countries which ask to have these agreements with europe? i hope so, since i voted for this document.
after my approval of all the articles of this regulation, which i voted for, i must express my great disappointment, as a representative of pensioners from all over europe, because with amendment no 55, which we voted for, we maintain the absolute ban on disabled people from all over europe travelling around europe, moving beyond the borders of their own state and establishing their residence in another european state because, in doing so, they lose most of the economic benefits that allow them to live. we have taken a step forward, we have abolished some of the pensions which could not be paid, but most of them remain in force, so that disabled people, when they travel in europe, have to leave their pensions to their own government, which has no need of them.
i voted in favour of the gröner report, which has the laudable aim of combating violence against women and children. i must confess, however, that at the airport in rome, from which i left to come to strasbourg, a roman pensioner approached me and said: it is good that you in europe are interested in fighting violence against children, young people and women, but i would like you, fatuzzo, to point out that in some institutions where the elderly and those who are not self-sufficient are admitted, due to the absolute lack of controls by governments, these elderly people who are not self-sufficient are also, unfortunately, very often the object of violence and oppression. these too should be decided and financed by the european parliament, so that we can also fight against this violence!
in writing. - (it) the fight against paedophilia and child pornography is a moral duty for every citizen and every society. it is with pleasure and satisfaction that i welcome the daphne ii community programme to prevent violence against children, adolescents and women, which has the support of my delegation and the whole of the uen group. the gröner report takes up two proposals approved today by the strasbourg assembly as a whole, which propose two additional measures that the community programme should put in place: the promotion of awareness-raising campaigns condemning acts of violence and encouraging psychological, moral and material assistance to victims and, above all, the study of the possibility of introducing filters prohibiting the dissemination of information on child pornography on the internet. the internet, as an extraordinary means of communication and information, can be an inexhaustible and uncontrolled source of violent and brutal messages about children, often with children as the protagonists. it is therefore necessary, in the name of the freedom that society prides itself on and which is not real if it is not respected by all and does not serve to protect everyone, to regulate the type of information that circulates on the internet and to allow families, adults and minors to recognise the nature of the sites they consult. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
i like the countryside very much, mr president, as do many people. i am very glad that agriculture is so well facilitated and helped by the european community and that it is concerned about having accurate news, accurate statistics, uniform methods of presenting agricultural and community expenditure in the fifteen states. if only the european governments were so attentive and the european union so determined that we could have the same interest, the same precision in statistics concerning us, poor, ordinary mortals! you know, mr president, that the pension deficit throughout europe - the heads of government say - is due to the fact that suddenly the average life expectancy of men and women has increased by at least ten years. what, they couldn't have seen it before?
i voted in favour of mr koukiadis' report, mr president, because what he is asking for and wishing for is one of the dreams i have had for a long time, when i can dream - not very often lately, given the approach of 13 june - because i can sleep well. why would you do that? because i really want a european law which is actually the first source of law. i believe, for example, that article 13 of the treaty of amsterdam is being violated in italy. there is discrimination against the elderly and disabled, who are given or not given financial support simply because they are over 65 or under 65. let us therefore adopt this report and make european law the first source of law!
i am sorry to have the last word on this subject, which was so well dealt with in mr crowley's explanation of vote, but i must say, mr president, that i am deeply saddened - although i voted in favour of this document - that in italy, my country which has such a beautiful sunshine and is very beautiful, there is still unfortunately a law in force today under which anyone in italy who becomes seriously incapable of working, despite having worked and paid social security contributions, has a pension of 40 to 50 euros a month to live on, no more, with which he has to live from, say, 30 years of age until he is 65, and perhaps 70. the government, currently the president-in-office of the council, will read what i am saying and put things right?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately mr cohn-bendit has spoken some truths, and one of them is that american policy is right or wrong, and american friends often make serious mistakes. the difference is that we europeans had none! this is the fundamental point which, i fear, despite the convention which you all applauded this morning, will unfortunately be repeated in the years to come: we europeans have not expressed a policy, neither before nor, unfortunately, now. i think the effort of reconstruction and the financial generosity are more than appreciated, but it is not yet a policy. i don't understand what we're proposing, except an appeal to the united nations: but the united nations is nothing but the member states that make it up! and for the moment we have the arab countries at the window, many of whom are waiting for the "worse, the better" because, in fact, if iraq works, for many of them it would mean going home and many countries of the european establishment who are also at the window or perhaps waiting for the americans to fail. i'm concerned to hear you equate terrorist attacks with legitimate resistance. i am concerned about these ambiguities which, frankly, are surprising even in the vocabulary. tell the dead iraqis that this is legitimate resistance! perhaps we too are still confused, even at a time when success in iraq is in everyone's interest, above all and above all in the interest of the iraqis, after twenty years of martyrdom by saddam hussein. they have the right, as do we all, to a different life and to a different development. our cowardice will not help them; i am sure that our cowardice will not make us take half a step forward on the road to democracy. good luck to you, commissioner. reconstruction is necessary, but the hypothesis of a policy for the region has yet to be born as far as europe is concerned.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is too late to debate the necessity and the rightness of the war in iraq. if so, it is the responsibility of the united states of america to reflect on the mistakes made in this regard. unfortunately, what was to be feared has happened. the dictator saddam hussein has been removed, but the country is not at peace, the situation is chaotic, and aggression is on the increase, and not just in iraq. that is why we must help bring peace, order and hope to the people of iraq together with the united states. we europeans are also called upon to contribute our experience, our culture of peace, our economic possibilities to a better future for iraq. any revanchism and any entitlement is now counterproductive. i say this as someone who was in iraq just before the war and warned of the very consequences we are now having. the reconstruction is now part of our commitment, part of our responsibility, and we europeans will probably be judged by whether we now find a solution to the problems in iraq, that is to say, a policy. it is only by finding an answer that we can regain credibility in this context.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too, like mr caudron and all of us, wonder what can be done to prevent this annual appointment with our human rights report from becoming a ritual. i believe there is a way, and that is to actually move the threshold of monitoring and reporting of human rights violations forward. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to provide, as the commissioner has already said, concrete resources and means, as well as training and support for those working in the field of human rights, starting with the united nations; finally, support for journalists - there have been many journalists killed in the last year, commissioner - which i believe are an important source of evidence and verification, also for this parliament. i think it is clear from mr van den bos' report that we must prevent religion from becoming a divisive factor in the third millennium, as it has been for a long time. we must prevent, in the name of god, the building up of new intolerance, new discrimination, even in some very civilised countries, in some very civilised western democracies: a world divided and torn by new crusades would be a world hopelessly sick, and we must prevent that. today, mr president, i believe that the battle for human rights can no longer be a challenge to principles, which is not open to any trickery or shortcuts. we therefore call on the council to ensure that the human rights clause - we have already heard it in the council's speech - does not remain an ornament but is the measure of a strong idea of legal and democratic civilization which this parliament will protect against any abduction.
mr president, while i welcome the report, i think it is also my group's duty to use the time available to stress the need for the european parliament to continue to use all the means at its disposal more decisively to ensure that the question of human rights is more present in our decisions and that the policies we pursue are more effective. i believe that, as regards human rights in general and in the world in particular, within this great chapter, the rights of children and women, there is still an area not fully used in the decisions we take in all aid policies, including for developing countries, an area in which the question of the need to respect human rights must be inserted more firmly and more decisively. i believe that there is also a problem of knowledge here and i agree with what is said in the report about the need for parliament in general and committees in particular, which are faced with decisions which are going to affect the policies of these countries, to have a greater, faster and more secure access to extremely up-to-date and everyday knowledge than is the case in those countries. in conclusion, i would like to refer to the question of the death penalty, which is always the subject of everyone's attention and on which everyone must continue to develop his own policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it is a wrong and reductive approach to look at the problem of the protection of rights from the standpoint of the rights of individuals alone, as a single and universal viewpoint, and without regard to the rights of peoples, their traditions and their cultural identity. this leads to variations, to extremely wrong directions, as happens for example when, in examining the problem of widespread crime among non-european immigrants, this report says that this is certainly due to bad integration policies, while it totally ignores what are instead the rights of the peoples who receive this type of irregular immigration and suffer the damage and the negative impact, including cultural, of what, in some cases, is a real invasion and overreach of the rights of the natives. for this reason, we are extremely critical of a report which also seeks to introduce euthanasia surreptitiously and open the door to it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, some of us are very concerned: the children, the children, the children ... our reporter threatens them: 87 percent of violent pedophilia cases occur in the family, according to figures that are not disputed by anyone; another 4 percent in the seminars. maybe we should try it with homosexuals, maybe it's better for the children. my colleague and friend borghese is moved: the right of peoples, not of individuals. well, from our mussolini to saddam, to all the others, it is always the right of the people and not of the individual! of peoples, yes, of peoples against peoples. our president has declared inadmissible and unacceptable an amendment calling for freedom of access to documents. but if this is what we do, then long live vitorino! long live this democracy monitoring, which we first carried out in 2003! i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we shall be happy to vote in favour of this report.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are faced with a report which has now taken on the tone of a routine meeting. so we should all be calm, but as you can see, it's a relationship that still inflames us after four years. we are discussing principles which distinguish a civil society from a tribal community, and in this respect the charter of fundamental rights seems to be the most appropriate, fairest and most timely reference point from which to draw inspiration and values. the main themes of this report are: the european union is also committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the right to freedom of expression, freedom of association and freedom of movement. it is a pity that all these issues, these values, are being called into question, are being degraded by strong ideological and political pollution, whereas they deserve greater respect. i am thinking, for example, of the defence of the christian roots and the family in its traditional composition: a man and a woman, united by the common goal of procreation. once again, 15 member states are being forced to accept a model that only three countries in europe accept, and this is being done, ladies and gentlemen, with violence which, although only verbal, is still violence. it is a pity that the information sector has also been deprived of a serious subject such as this by pure political propaganda, as the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture has done. he is not entitled to any reply. fortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this is only an opinion, a collection of opinions, which has no legal force.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that in the report i have taken account of the balance between the different presences in our parliament, although the central point is obviously that trade is not the solution to development. i thank everyone - the secretariat and the members - because there were so many amendments and we were able to reach a common view in committee. we are on the eve of the fifth ministerial conference of the world trade organisation, which will be held in cancún. in 1999, before seattle, commissioner lamy, who will negotiate in cancún on behalf of the 15 eu countries, had been given a mandate. but the objects of the negotiation were different. i believe that the wto has a great weight today and has taken up too much space, so much so that it seems almost to have become the new united nations. actually, that's just one of the reasons. i believe that a new mandate would be desirable, also in view of the objectives and commitments undertaken by the european union in the various international fora. the doha round, which has been called the development cycle, has also not been pursued. the relationship of proportionality between liberalization and development has not been established. on the contrary, indiscriminate liberalization and deregulation in developing countries have in fact proved extremely detrimental to the objectives of development. even when liberalisation has led to an increase in gdp, the distribution of wealth within the country has very often worsened. the report calls for 'regional integration among developing countries and a model of symmetrical market opening, so that developed countries can lower their barriers, including non-customs barriers, while giving the countries of the global south the time to increase and make their production competitive and develop their markets'. i think it is important, among other things, to remember how historically protectionism has helped us, the countries of the northern hemisphere, to reach our level of development. however, it is sometimes surprising that the commission, for example, insists, despite the resolution adopted by this parliament on 3 july 2003, on opening negotiations on singapore issues - which i do not mention all of them for time reasons - including public procurement. i do not think it is appropriate to negotiate on these issues. the reasons are, on the one hand, the powers and authority of the wto and, on the other hand, the problem i have already mentioned, namely the lack of negotiating capacity of the developing countries. in fact, these same countries state in their documents that they are not in a position to negotiate any further. i think it would be essential to tackle other issues and give real substance to the differentiated special treatment clause by implementing a world system of guaranteed prices to support producers of raw materials such as coffee and cotton. the development issues to be addressed are the realisation and promotion of fair trade - an experience that is also occurring in civil society - together with assistance to countries to diversify their production and not to create enclaves of exporting sectors, but rather to promote their integration with the rest of the economy. i believe that the goals of development should be primarily linked to the well-being of the people. i therefore believe that the declaration of the trips agreements, which states that these agreements can and must be interpreted in such a way as to uphold the right of member states to protect public health, must be implemented without delay and without agreements which provide for procedures so restrictive and bureaucratic as to become inapplicable. this aspect was seriously addressed by mr lannoye in his report, and i too, in my report, stressed for example the importance of removing essential goods such as water from the logic of trade and of the european union pursuing a policy of public financing, not only for the distribution of water but also for the democratisation of the management of springs, rivers and reservoirs. when we talk about development, we cannot leave out the question of debt, although it is not closely related to it. it was not included in the commission document. debt-laden countries have debt-servicing charges that absorb as much as a quarter of the value of exports. i believe that the european union should work towards cancelling the debts of developing countries, but should also provide for mechanisms to verify the reinvestment of capital resulting from debt cancellation, so that the benefits actually benefit the people. another issue is to establish a code of conduct with ethical, social and environmental rules for european companies making investments. as regards the negotiations to be held in cancún, it should be noted that a democratic and transparent system within the wto and an adequate negotiating capacity for all countries are needed, which do not currently exist. these should therefore be regarded as almost indispensable conditions for fairly establishing the rules of the game. i think we have a long way to go. we must ensure that the abyss of inequality can be corrected, and that is why we need not a wild trade but a trade that serves the social and economic needs of all the inhabitants of this planet.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it has been pointed out here in the plenary, and not only in the plenary, but also far beyond, time and again that we are facing a historic step, the historic step of enlargement. for this historic step, we need first of all understanding. an understanding that is not just superficial, but deep, not just a casual encounter, but a real understanding. to ensure this understanding, we need languages as a vector. we're about to be representing 25 countries and over 3,000 years of cultures. some cultures and languages are much younger and therefore not as established. for this reason, there is a widespread concern about identity. i believe that these concerns are unfounded, and i will give you an example from my own home in south tyrol. the european union has done us good. the german and ladin-speaking austrian minority in south tyrol is greatly strengthened by the union, an open policy of italy and the development in the european union. i believe that this minority has become a bridge between italy and austria, between the german-speaking and the italian-speaking regions. i would like to express my concern for minorities, small states, small linguistic communities within the union and those who will join the union. this report aims to promote, preserve and strengthen languages and cultures, not only the official ones but also the regional and minority languages. europe is a mosaic, a very beautiful mosaic, and we want to preserve this mosaic and not turn it into a cocktail. there are currently over 60 minorities in the eu-15. in the europe of the 10 candidate countries, another 60 will be added. this linguistic wealth is diversity, it is enrichment, and many of these minorities will also have the opportunity to act as a bridge between the states. the european commission recognised this in time in its action plan and an inclusive approach. i would like to mention commissioner reding in particular and specifically for this initiative, and i would also like to express my gratitude to her in every way. the action plan for linguistic diversity is the way to go. i thank the members of this house and those who have made a considerable contribution to this in previous legislatures, especially those in the committee on culture who have helped to improve this report. parliament has always been a pioneer. it has been active between 1981 and 2001 in the arfé report, the kuijpers report, the reding report, the killilea report and the morgan resolution, and now it wants to take this decision by the committee on culture a step further. it is a crucial moment before enlargement, when the convention concludes its work, not only to make a statement here, but to come forward with proposals. the year of languages 2001 was important, but not enough. language learning should not be limited to one year, but should become and remain a continuous process.
mr president, i am afraid that the picture is less positive than many speeches would have you believe. linguistic diversity is being destroyed in europe. in short, i believe that the solution to this problem does not lie simply in supporting languages or minority languages, because that is not enough, it is not enough; i think the answer lies in a difficult and uncomfortable word: i know esperanto. let's at least try! according to some studies, this language, as a technical, neutral language, could be learned and thus politically chosen in place of other languages. the use of other languages, which in themselves represent and carry a culture, as unique or bridge languages, would be the result of the dominance of one culture over another, which is what is happening today. esperanto does not have this problem or this flaw. if it were true - and i believe it - that it is possible to learn this language with the ease that many international studies show, i believe that the european union should at least try to experiment with this way too. the funding, the support in the face of the logic of the destruction of linguistic diversity is not enough.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to extend my warmest congratulations to mr ebner and his report, which raises a central question of democracy: the relationship between freedom of speech and the use of one's own language. i would say that, in a very significant way, it is in this house that our rapporteur's rights of freedom have been violated in some way: in the italian translation of his speech, when mr ebner, citing his region, called it "südtirol" as is his right, the bureaucratic name established by italian centralism for this region was used, and it was incorrectly translated as "alto adige". europe, as he rightly said, quoting a great europeanist like dr sylvius magnago, is an extraordinary mosaic of peoples and must therefore regard its ethno-linguistic specificities as a precious asset to be defended and enhanced. i will continue and conclude in my mother tongue, which is piedmontese: voeui bin remarqué si ma son that in piedmont, which is my region, also as speak .... still apart el piemunteis, which is an extraordinary language with a bela literatura and a grammar that dates back to the setzent two other minority languages: the lusitanian and the waltz, which also speaks valdusta. so much so that the other minority languages are still being oppressed and suppressed by the italian centralist state in 2003, and this is certainly one of the reasons for our fight for the establishment of federalism in italy and for the full freedom and autonomy of our beautiful piedmont and free padania.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have tabled amendments with mr volcic to the excellent report by mr perry, and i would like to emphasize the excellent report by mr perry, which deal with a point which you all have touched on, namely the concentration of the media and therefore pluralism. i listened with great interest to what commissioner reding said about defending pluralism as an essential value. however, we cannot ignore the fact that today, throughout the western world, market forces, if left to themselves, almost always lead to serious and dangerous concentrations, and that only political intervention can dictate the rules in favour of a liberal society in which pluralism is an essential basis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would not, however, like you to think that the amendments tabled by mr volcic and myself, which push parliament and the commission, in line with what parliament had already approved in november, towards an intervention, a directive, were dictated only by italian questions. it is a much bigger problem, a much wider problem, which affects the whole of europe: it's a matter of civilization. if we are to be a community based on liberal principles, this is one of the first points we must regulate, in a spirit of freedom and respect for all opinions.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this directive definitively establishes that democracy and transparency for europeans are closely linked to media freedom and pluralism. the concentration of these substances in the same property is therefore a factor prejudicing freedom of conscience and seriously injuring the dignity of the human person. the commission, in its green paper of 21 may, calls for a review of concrete measures to protect pluralism effectively. the council, in its recommendation of 28 january, expressed the same concern. parliament, with its resolution of 20 november and the two reports by mr sylla and mr perry, is doing the same. we are therefore giving a concrete response through a commission initiative to this end. we're in the constituent phase. the draft constitution includes the charter of fundamental rights, which, in article 11 (2), explicitly enshrines the right to freedom and pluralism of the media. but what is the point of approving a constitution when it is already denied in the present reality?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i can only thank the rapporteur for the excellent work she has done, a very precise and detailed work. i have appreciated first of all the principles, the values which underlie the report itself, namely the need to recognise culture as a major factor in the european constitution. indeed, the motto 'united in diversity' only makes sense if it is interpreted in the light of the richness and diversity of identities and cultural and historical roots which are the deep meaning of our being europeans. but too often, europe's cultural heritage is neither appreciated nor valued enough, even though it undoubtedly represents an area with great potential also from an economic point of view. i think it is absolutely acceptable to start by drawing up a comprehensive study to establish a european map of cultural industries, activities and productions and then to draw up a proper inventory of europe's artistic and cultural heritage. it would be a step forward from the past, even the recent past, when the commission declared that it had neither the powers nor the instruments, effectively marginalizing culture in favour of exclusive national competence. i would like to conclude by highlighting some of the important points in the report: first, the reduction of vat on music products, so as to encourage increased sales and at the same time reduce the trade in pirated products; secondly, greater attention to young artists, both in terms of training and promotion; thirdly and lastly, more investment at european level and new rules, also to promote european cultural enterprise economically, for example by allowing the deduction of reinvested profits.
the very fact that the legal service and the parliamentary bureaucracy have only informed us at 10.40 this morning which texts we are to table, how we are to vote and which amendments are acceptable or not, gives a picture of the situation in which this parliament finds itself. i thank president hernández mollar for his efforts, but as far as i am concerned - being the author of the amendment adopted unanimously by the committee on civil liberties, which also contained the opinion of the european ombudsman - i think we can put an end to this farce. i'm going to vote against this compromise.
mr president, there is a misunderstanding about amendment no 41, which we are about to vote on. it 's not the services ' fault . the amendment is not a translation error, and therefore, as it stands, it is not meaningful. it says in the last part: deplores in particular that the european union and the united kingdom are preparing bilateral agreements with the united states, agreements which would allow member states to extradite death row prisoners to the united states; there are no death sentences in the european union. therefore, in order to make sense, the amendment should be worded as follows: extradition of citizens who are subject to the death penalty in the united states.
in writing. - (it) the glaring lack of competition rules regulating conflicts of interest and the concentration of monopolies to protect the rule of law and the freedoms of citizens is due to more than 50 years of cronyism and more than 30 years of total monopoly by rai tv, a monopoly gradually replaced by a duopoly in the last 15 years. even in the latter period, this choice was made by both the left and the right. in fact, the world of audiovisual information and its immense power to influence the situation in italy is dominated by groups of influential journalists, generally of the centre-left but also of the far left. they are a real political force which has dominated rai tv up to now and holds the highest position in mediaset.
in writing. - (it) only the radical party has since the early 1960s placed the fight against the abuse of trust and information at all legal and political levels of large-scale nonviolent campaigns and successful referendum initiatives. silvio berlusconi and his companies are certainly responsible for having chosen, since the 1990s, to transform his media empire of modest origin into an instrument like rai tv to revive his declining political career. his attempt was only partially successful and his top media representatives "preside" and support large demonstrations, electoral or otherwise, by his political enemies. this is typical of the italian situation, of the 'italian case'. silvio berlusconi is someone who, on the contrary, continues instead of opposing or reforming, as he promised to do in his election campaign. the members of the radical party therefore abstained on the following passage: 'deplores ... that media power remains concentrated in the hands of the president of the council'. i fear that we may now be faced with savage power struggles that can go 'to the death', struggles within systems that are not only political but also economic and indeed criminal.
in writing. - (it) on behalf of the radical members, i would like to justify our abstention from voting on the following passage: 'it regrets that ... the media power remains concentrated in the hands of the president of the council' of the italian republic. during a campaign meeting on 4 april 1996 at mediaset's headquarters in cologno monzese, berlusconi's holding company, mediaset, was defined, among other things, as one of the country's leading companies ... an important communication company ... an italian asset ... the heritage of a country's work and skills. these definitions were not given by silvio berslusconi, but by massimo d'alema, the post-communist leader of the pds at the time, the current ds, who was to be elected less than a year later - in agreement with silvio berlusconi and the whole centre-right - as president of both chambers - in an attempt at a convention - and, immediately afterwards, as prime minister in place of romano prodi. to imagine that the concentration of media power in the hands of silvio berlusconi provides a powerful grip like a reins on the world of information and democracy even in italy is a grave mistake and an act of considerable populism and dishonesty based on serious prejudice.
mr president, my colleagues have already expressed in a very clear and precise way many of the points i wanted to make, so i take them up. so i would just like to ask myself and you some questions. i wonder, first, whether the european union's attempt to pursue political dialogue and quartet participation is strengthened, or rather weakened, by the commission's actual reluctance to enforce a proper application of the protocol on rules of origin and the territorial clause of the eu-israel association agreement. i ask this because i think it's fundamental. we have been discussing this for years now and there is no doubt that progress has been made. however, we are still faced with a flagrant violation of this agreement. there are enormous obstacles to the peace process, which, in my view, are primarily due to the policy of the israeli government, which continues to build settlements, pursues a policy of annexation, builds walls. these obstacles are also the result of the proliferation of violations of the basic principles and rules of international humanitarian law in israel and palestine. i think we are not helping by allowing the agreements we have signed not to be implemented. i would also like to consider the reasons why israel is violating the agreement, which, in article 2, imposes on that country, but also on us, an obligation to respect it. we have a responsibility to ensure that our relations under the agreement are based on respect for human rights and not on violations of international humanitarian law. i believe that a politically correct and proportionate response by the union to israel's persistence in issuing certificates of origin for settlement products should ensure that no product can continue to be imported into the european union under preferential arrangements. if we take the commission's words seriously as regards the preferential importation of settlement products, we see that the practice of israel of issuing certificates of origin for these products is considered by the commission to be a violation of the agreement. however, this practice is not yet over. the agreement - the commission has also said this - is not being applied decisively. i would like to see this problem of relations and legality addressed, because the situation in palestine and israel must be brought to an end, and israel must learn to apply the agreements it signs.
- thank you, mr president. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to start by saying that i am one of the signatories to this question. i did it as a democratic service for mrs. ulla sandbæk who asked me to. i do not share the views of the majority of speakers, but this question has been circulating in our parliament for some time, and it was important to bridge the gap and see clearly in this application story. the question in the morgantini and others case is indeed one of application and not of calling into question the agreement. the commissioner's reply was very precise, and was supplemented by important clarifications from mr belder. the commissioner said that the application was the responsibility of the customs services of the member states. mr belder gave a specific example of a member state which considers that this agreement is being applied. there is also an appeal procedure, which is the association council. if you have specific information, mrs morgantini, you can pass it on to the commission, which i am sure will mention it in the next association agreement. the rest is just words and threats, based on nothing. i am a little concerned, mr de rossa, that you are using this opportunity to call into question the association agreement with israel, because that is not at all the subject of this debate. i am also surprised that you want the united states to put pressure on israel to respect human rights, when you mention only the pressure that the european union could and should put on the palestinian authority to stop terrorist attacks. we have all heard mr arafat deplore the present situation and blame it entirely on israel, forgetting once again the deadly attacks of the past few weeks. we all know the role played by hamas. the european union, as well as our parliament, could provide support to mr abu mazen, through budgetary aid or parliamentary initiatives. mr abu mazen seems to be showing a real desire to move towards a peace agreement. we can support him instead of continuing to support those who, like mr arafat, consider terrorist attacks to be part of normal palestinian politics on its romantic road to freedom. what freedom, i'll let you imagine.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to a serious fact that is happening: the preparatory committee for the world summit on the information society is being held in geneva. firstly, two ngos, namely reporters without borders and human rights in china, were denied access to the committee; secondly, the second session of the information society summit will be held in tunis. the world observatory against torture informs us that tunisia would appoint as chairman of this summit no less than general habib ammar, former commissioner of the burghiba national guard and former minister of the interior, the man who created the national directorate of special services in tunisia, notorious for its torture in the country. mr president, i would like to ask you to intervene to prevent the un world summit on the information society from being entrusted to a person with the blood of torture on his hands, who would thus end up on the internet and in the information society.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, information technology is the backbone of the future development of every nation in the world, and its fundamental pillar is technology, hardware, and science, software. every technological innovation is currently protected and patented; on the contrary, the development of software gives rise to a copyright that protects its intellectual property. to make it clear, let's draw a parallel with the world of music. the electronic computer is an instrument with which music is played, composed not of notes but of codes and commands which, alternating with the rhythm and the sequence devised and developed by the developer, give rise to different actions and results. what would happen to music if one day you could patent the scales, the chords, the trills and everything that makes the world's symphonic landscape full and exciting? the same fate would befall computer science, where patents would protect every little command, those sequences of codes and algorithms, effectively turning the market into a jungle of limitations. if existing patents were to be validated, all software development would be limited, circumscribed and increasingly curbed, as this would force all small and mediumsized enterprises and the programmers themselves to acquire or license, effectively putting them out of the market. the intellectual property of a picture or a book is not protected by patenting its subject or subject matter, but by guaranteeing its dissemination within the framework of the laws protecting copyright, thus stimulating other minds to produce works of ingenuity, similar but not copies, improving where possible the original work or reinterpreting it according to different and more interesting schemes. a growing market, open to new horizons of fervent inventions and fantasy, such as the european one, cannot afford to impose additional rules, in effect putting new brakes on the development of the european nations. it is our firm conviction that the mccarthy report cannot be accepted because its support would seriously jeopardize the development and technological growth which can only be generated by a people with a free mind and spirit.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur and the commission for the work they have done and the difficulty of it. the radical bonino list meps will vote in favour of the amendments aimed at restricting the scope for patentability of software and will vote against the overall proposal if the core of these amendments is not accepted. why would you do that? perhaps because we are against the need for european harmonization? no, of course not. we agree with the commissioner and the rapporteur in taking note of a situation where the european patent office has, in fact, accepted thousands of software patents. in the face of such a flagrant violation of the spirit and the letter of the european patent convention, what was necessary, what would be necessary, what is necessary, is to clarify and confirm the non-patentability of software. the distinction between software patentability as such and software patentability as part of a technological invention is a subtle one, and one that we risk making a mess of, whereas the solution, in my view, is there and it's very clear: if software is an integral part of an invention, it is the invention that is patentable and patented, not the software. but it is already possible to do this through the laws that govern technological inventions that call themselves such. software is excluded from patentability for a very specific reason: for the same reason that mathematical formulas are excluded, for the same reason that theorems are excluded, for the same reason that musical formulas or symphonies are excluded, which belong to the field of ideas, the organization of ideas, the transformation of ideas. we know that the same functionality that a piece of software can perform can be translated into an infinite number of different types of code, by an infinite number of different programmers, with different programming languages. this is what makes patents on software dangerous, especially if they last for 20 years, a geological age for software development. independent programmers and programmers in general would now be allowed to use features patented in 1983, when we were in the prehistory of software and computers. that's the danger. i think it would not have been necessary for us to venture into complex formulas on the distinction between software patenting as such and software as part of technological inventions. it was enough to continue to make technological inventions patentable and to enforce the rule that software is not patentable, which in any case allows protection through copyright. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. i also believe that we cannot proceed to adopt the proposal here because otherwise the member states will do it themselves. we try to do the best we can here. i also believe that the involvement of hundreds of thousands of people who have individually spoken on this issue should be seen as a democratic contribution and not as a nuisance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must admit that of the many subjects dealt with in this parliament, the subject we are dealing with this morning has proved to be one of the most complex for me, and i must acknowledge to mrs mccarthy the enormous amount of work that has been done. i do not have the truth in my pocket and i understand the need for the commission - as commissioner bolkestein has made clear - to speak on the subject. i shall therefore make some general observations, starting from an assumption: we are dealing with a subject where the identification of the subject of legal protection, and therefore the translation of computer terms into legal terms and concepts, can in itself become extremely complex. there is a second point: we are faced with a complex international regulatory framework and if we look at what is happening, not only in europe but especially in the united states, the patent system is showing many, many practical limitations. in view of this, i believe that the directive, while perfect, has addressed a serious political problem facing the european union. we must differentiate ourselves from the us position and perhaps also take action towards our main economic partners to harmonize all aspects of software legal protection in a different form from the present one. we are not doing this from scratch, because the features on which patents are based are already well identified in the trips agreements. we must therefore press for the idea, which we cannot shy away from, that software patents are granted only on sound grounds. we have seen an unusual number of software patents applied for in the united states, and probably also in the european union, and this makes it clear that we are not dealing with real inventive activity and that we cannot afford to patent every kind of application. moreover, with the uncontrolled growth of patents, it will become virtually impossible to verify concretely in the archives whether the application is really for a new invention. of course, there are some aspects which could probably be improved from a legal point of view; there are some discrepancies with directive 91/250/eec; we could certainly have made some additional legal reflections on article 52 of the european patent convention, but one thing is certain: i think we will have to come back to this because the evolution, as many colleagues have said, is so rapid that it will require action by the european union in the next few years, and we will have to review our positions on this.
mr president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur for her work, because i think that this dossier - and this morning's debate shows this - is very complicated and delicate. as mentioned above, software plays an important role in many industries, is a fundamental form of creation and expression, as well as being a specialised engineering field, and is a fundamental human activity, with more than ten million professional designers worldwide and tens of millions of software developers. independent software developers and small companies play a key role in the innovation of this sector, especially in europe. europe is at the forefront of computer culture: 71 percent of free software developers work in europe and only 13 percent in america. patents must not therefore allow the monopolisation of the means of expression, creation, dissemination and exchange of information and knowledge, nor must they hinder the development of research and knowledge. the stakes are high, because it is a question of being able to ensure that research and innovation continue to be free and in the spirit of lisbon to stimulate economic growth based on knowledge, to make sure that innovation and invention through software are stimulated at all levels, to avoid monopolies in the production and trade of products using software. the commission proposal therefore needs to be amended and improved on a number of key points, so that the legislation will be in line with a clear and severe limitation of the conditions for patentability. much has been said about the technical contribution, the industrial application, the significance of the technical invention; the condition of industrial application of the software-based invention for patentability must be extended to the product as well as to the method. that is why commissioner bolkestein expressed concern that the amendments tabled in the house would be adopted. i am concerned that if they are not adopted, the proposal we are considering cannot be supported.
i was at the campione d'italia casino, a major and famous casino in our europe. the governors of the 15 national banks of the european union were playing cards at a table a little apart, and together with them was jean-claude trichet, candidate and now elected president of the european bank. jean-claude trichet was very young, while the fifteen governors were elderly; they didn't just have white hair, they were really tired. they were retired. i was wondering then: this vision i've had, isn't it a warning vision? what are the national banks to do when there is a european bank? what are national governors doing? wouldn't it be nice if they retired?
mr president, i have invited to dinner the supporters, the fans, the enthusiasts of my voting statements. there were many: more than 300! in the kitchen, mr fatuzzo, who was preparing dinner: spaghetti with garlic, oil and chili. a perfume, mr president! but the best part was that the gas ran out and there was no more cooking. a little big trouble; and then i asked myself: what if there is no gas in the whole european union? i therefore voted in favour of the mombaur report. who knows what trouble would befall europe if a dinner went wrong for so little!
in my car, a panoramic renault, i was on a pleasure trip with miss italy, the most beautiful woman in italy, miss france, the most beautiful woman in france, and miss spain, the most beautiful woman in spain. we were on our way to madrid, where i recently attended a meeting of the group of the european people's party, for a spanish dream night. but the best part is, mr president, we're out of gas! and again i thought: a little big trouble, for lack of gasoline and oil. what would have happened to the european union if we had not thought about the supply of oil in this karlsson report? a very big trouble! and so, i voted for it.
i am sorry, mr president, but i am not feeling well here, given the noise and the voices of the many members present, always attentive but this time a little talkative. i was on a plane from brussels to i don't know where. i've seen many first-class passengers who were served succulent, hearty, good meals: champagne, beautiful hostesses, stewards who served them, armchairs, comfort. ... a dream, mr president! i went up to them and said, who are you, flying in such luxury? "ah" was the answer, "we are illegal, and we have been taken on board to return to where we started from". but they treat us so well on the plane, we're so well off that we keep going back, and they always take us back to our home country. it was a dream, mr president, because the truth is much crueler; but it's also good to think about the comfort of the illegal immigrants when we fly them back to their home state.
once again, while i was on a programme on a major private italian television station answering questions from pensioners who asked me for information on how to apply for a pension, i fell asleep on the air as i was so used to giving these answers. and i saw the sailor fatuzzo, who at the age of 20 was sailing on a beautiful cruise ship between new york and the bahamas the oceanic flying the european flag: dances, fancy clothes, money flowing everywhere... i mean, a trip on a luxury ship, and it's safe. it's not the titanic! i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. and i ask you: but when will we have the security of always collecting pensions?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this is a historic budget, in general terms, as we approach enlargement to the east. first of all, i would like to thank my committee and its chairman - who has also given me a lot of experience - the secretariat structures, my colleagues in parliament and the rapporteurs, both for this budget and for previous years. as a young man, i had the opportunity to gain a great deal of experience in this field, even becoming vice-chairman of the committee. i think that this is a fundamental budget for us because it lays the foundations for the future of europe and for the next european parliament, and i think that the political focus is precisely on the expenditure on enlargement to the east. on this issue we have the full support of all our colleagues, but only in terms of the expenditure on staff and facilities linked to the enlargement to the east. i would like to stress, however, a perhaps regrettable point in this budget: we must be careful about the allocations for iraq. i have my own concerns about this funding: i don't want to start at 100 and end up at 1,000. i would also like to see a major check on this funding, a structure which can exercise effective control so as to avoid what has already happened to the pa - the palestinian national authority - in respect of which we are analysing the financial allocation in depth. i want to put an important flash on this because this kind of control is going to be critical. i believe that an experimental phase will also be necessary with regard to the new financial regulation. it is a complex and diverse matter and will undoubtedly increase tension within the commission, beyond the level of the director-general, whose work with us over the last period i have greatly appreciated. finally, i think i should also mention the initiative which has given rise to a great deal of discussion in our committee, namely health insurance for members of parliament. i think that's a question we can consider when we have the right papers for a study we've requested. i hope that the council will do a good job on this and all the rest, and i am proud to be an italian representative myself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a historic budget - as one of my colleagues has said - a budget which the council is proposing for the 15 with a view to enlargement, a budget which is 2.70% smaller than last year's. it is a sign, a statistic, but it is also an eloquent one, of a europe which is afraid of itself, of its budget and of the way in which it deals with the problems of the world. from this point of view, we welcome the amendment on iraq, which at least gives a sign not only of discontinuity but also of the fact that europe exists, that it wants to play its part and that it must provide the means to do so. i think that the budget line has been entered in the budget for the time being. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. many colleagues have stressed the priorities of the european parliament. it is important not only to state our priorities but - and i am addressing the commissioner - it is important that the commission implements parliament's priorities. unfortunately, we often get the impression that the priorities which parliament sets are not followed up. and i am not just talking about the 13 billion euros we are returning to the member states this year. i'm obviously talking about this, too, because it's an anomaly of the system: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget for the financial year 2000 and whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget for the financial year 2000 and that the council has not yet taken a decision on the budget for the financial year 2000. i think this is an important problem, one that should not be underestimated in the assessment of this budget, but also of the one we will be voting on in 2004, because the priorities of parliament often do not correspond to actual consequences. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the rapporteur's work and approach to external relations, we support many - if not all - of the amendments which mr van hecke has tabled on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, some of which we have also been able to put our own specific commitment into. i would like to stress in particular a whole series of amendments concerning the human rights clause. as a parliament we have insisted and for years successfully fought for the inclusion in our relations with third countries of a human rights clause which makes it a condition - the word should not be offensive to anyone - for mutual respect for the most widely known and shared conventions in force, cooperation programmes and aid to emerging countries and, in general, to countries with which we have relations. in fact, this clause, which is solemnly inscribed in agreements with third countries, is very often ignored by those who have to enforce it. it's unexpected for several reasons: because there is probably no specific mechanism in place to ensure its monitoring; it is a fact, however, that very often we continue to implement our budget on the basis of agreements which, as such, must of course be respected, even if there is a clause which is often not respected. that is why a number of amendments are designed to ensure that the budgetary authority is kept informed in good time of the status of this human rights clause, so that parliament can decide, if necessary, and in the appropriate form, to formally request the suspension of agreements with this or that country. there are serious, important cases of rights being systematically violated and of countries whose economies depend, if not on european union aid, to a large extent, certainly on the broad fabric of relations they have with the countries of the european union: i am thinking of vietnam, laos and cambodia itself, where, as you know, a very serious situation is developing, with a potential coup d'état that could be carried out in the coming days, despite the results of elections which our own parliament has judged - perhaps with a certain prematurity - to be perfectly legal. that is why i believe that, through the budgetary levy, it is possible to send a strong signal to the beneficiary countries that this human rights clause is a real reality and that our parliament, which is one of the budgetary authorities as well as being the promoter of this idea, can also be reassured that the commission is not implementing the budget as if it were nothing, but is ensuring preventive control. that is one of the most important aspects. i am pleased with the exchange of jokes on iraq, which shows a willingness to have a fruitful dialogue on the subject. i think that this budgetary issue which i have just mentioned deserves, in all its various aspects, as the rapporteur for the committee on foreign affairs has pointed out, to be supported in the final vote on the budget.
commission. mr president, i am grateful to mr ferber for his kind remarks on my timely arrival. it reminded me of the time when i used to have to get to a 10 a.m. division in the house of commons and narrowly make it in, practising my side-step around the policemen. it was not quite as complicated on this occasion. i am grateful for constructive contributions and i can reply very briefly but i hope reassuringly to the honourable members who have contributed. firstly, i am grateful for the kind remarks by mr casaca because they are based on very thorough analysis of everything we are seeking to do. i wish that was a universal characteristic, but i find that some people writing in the press, for instance, have a confidence and an assertiveness in what they write, which is in inverse proportion to the amount of knowledge that they have. i regret his understandable view that the commission, to use his term, is hiding the internal audit report from parliament. i understand the force of what he says when he reminds us again that the internal audit activity, the examination of contracts, was a direct product of the discharge resolution drafted, in fact, by mr casaca himself and some of his close colleagues. i fully recognise the force with which he puts the point. i only say this: we are having to use the annex iii procedure for a very basic reason which i am sure will be understood. we have to observe strict confidentiality whilst trying to maximise information to the people who are most entitled to know, including members of this house, simply because those reports which are now being completed contain a potential for disciplinary and even more grave procedures. that is not an excuse, it is not an evasion. it arises from the proper observance of the rights of natural justice and the presumption of innocence, and also from our strong desire not in a precipitate fashion to release details into the public domain which could then compromise the integrity of a case or cases we may wish to bring against individuals. i hope that on examination it will be understood that i say this in a mood of explanation and transparency, not apology or evasiveness, and it is necessary simply because of the material we are dealing with. i realise that if there had been a historic background of trying to keep confidentiality to a minimum, and transparency to a maximum, then it would be easier for this house to understand that, when it is critically essential that we use confidential procedures, it is done for absolutely the best reasons. i hope that, amongst other products of activity-based management and budgeting and the transparency that mr virrankoski spoke about, we will see a further evolution of the readiness of the commission to make maximum disclosure whilst trying to safeguard the integrity of necessary procedures. the report will be available under annex iii of the framework agreement procedure when it is ready. it is being finalised literally now, so that it can be available in the proper form at the time promised. as regards the consolidation of political responsibility i do not yet envisage the full implementation of the architecture that mr casaca desires, though i have a lot of sympathy for it. that architecture consists in the establishment of a full financial control unit, as it were, in the office of every commissioner. but i consider that we have made substantial progress towards achieving that, on the one hand in the general ambit of the financial regulation, but more specifically in the reforms adopted by the commission, in some cases as recently as july 2003. those guarantee an absolute requirement for reporting on management conduct and financial operation in a dg at least twice a year, specifically to the responsible commissioner, so that commissioners will in future continue to be au fait with the practical operational management of the directorate-general, as well as bearing their straightforward and obvious political responsibilities. it will not diminish political responsibility, portfolio responsibility or policy engagement: it is likely to add to those. commissioner schreyer and i sent a letter to all dgs in july 2003. the response we got from the dgs - with very thorough analysis seeking to detect any practices remotely related to what we have observed in eurostat - was rigorous and encouragingly thorough. i know that mr casaca, with his interest in these matters, and probably mr mulder, will want to examine that. that will be very welcome. mr virrankoski obviously shows great understanding and i know his background really gives him an authority in this area. i would simply say to him that i agree with his forecast for future structures and the practices that he anticipates, and express confidence that they will come to pass. culture in an organisation of human beings is substantially a product not of ethnic or national origin or regional origin or language. culture is a product of the systems and structures in which people work. by making massive reforms that radically change systems and structures, we foster the kind of culture of transparency and accountability which is fundamental to the successful operation of activity-based management and of the activity-based budgeting which reinforces that process. to mr ferber i would say: it is a matter of record that my promise at the outset of the commission - and i am not trying to denounce or go back on any catchphrases about the best in the world, etc. - was that we would strive to achieve, through radical modernising reform, a well managed, high-performance, service-orientated, independent european commission in the service of the peoples of the european union. i do not think that was modest, and yet we are accomplishing it. to use his phrase, i do not imagine that the sky is as blue as he says i have painted it. we acknowledge in our frequent progress reports the shortcomings, the target dates that we have missed, as well as the ones that we have bettered. we acknowledge where further development needs to take place. it was, after all, this commission which - as soon as we had prima facie evidence that gave us legal security in undertaking certain actions - suspended contracts, opened disciplinary proceedings, established the strongest, biggest ever inquiry task force in the history of the commission, increased the staffing of the internal audit examination of contracts from 9 to 24 persons and has had those reports coming in absolutely on schedule. this is not evidence of a slothful or lax commission, but neither does it mean that we imagine that the sky is permanently blue, nor do these glasses have any rose tint. i am impatient for further change. i want to see total implementation. that ambition is shared universally by my colleagues and we could not have made the progress we have unless we had had massive cooperation from staff assuming these obligations in addition to their normal workload and if we had not had the full-hearted commitment of every single member of the college of commissioners. therefore, i do not try to pretend that we have done more than we have. i simply ask for a factual examination of what has been achieved. for instance, automatic mandatory mobility for senior management and for people in money-handling, contract-handling posts will in itself provide a safeguard against a repetition of the double accounting that we have detected in eurostat. more than any other measure, but in addition, reforms of structures and systems of audit control and management control that give us - insofar as any human organisation handling money can get it - real, strong safeguards against any form of repetition of what we have detected and are acting upon now. as far as the response to parliament and the council is concerned, i respect it. i come from a parliamentary tradition where an elected house of commons obtained its strength by having the vote on the budget. therefore i fundamentally respect and want to endorse that democratic procedure. i do not plead for us to depart from that. i do not make an argument for being insulated against the representations and judgment of parliament or of the council which represents the taxpayers. i do not ask for that for one second. i simply say that it is a practical reality that, without autonomy, it is difficult to exercise responsibility, and when we have autonomy our responsibility must be fully accountable. however, if we do not have the resources or the people whose presence, qualities and qualifications we can totally justify, then it is very difficult to see how the commission can undertake the tasks it has now, let alone the ones that are to come as a consequence of this glorious enlargement, but which nevertheless we recognise to be additional obligations which we must discharge with efficiency and honesty.
commission. i rise to do two things. first, i apologise if you feel that i have abused the rules of the house. i would certainly not repeat that. i believe that people in this house know that my occupation of time is, generally speaking, very disciplined. there were fundamental points raised on a budget about which i feel passionately. we need people!
- mr president, i speak on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, which has tabled a number of amendments which i can group into several chapters. the first concerns the european parliament's perspectives and priorities, particularly in the context of the prince programme. we have discussed this this morning at the meeting on interinstitutional information and we are very concerned about the fact that a large part of the appropriations allocated to the priorities which parliament is advocating, has already advocated this year and will advocate again next year, have not been implemented. i call on the commission to place this non-implementation at the heart of its concerns. commissioner barnier knows this very well. i think we are in a decisive year for the construction of europe, for the image of europe: the constitution will, we hope, be adopted and the elections are approaching. the appropriations in question must therefore be used and put to good use. that is the first chapter of the amendments of the committee on constitutional affairs. then there is another chapter of amendments which i would call 'image of the institutions'. we advocate and ask the rapporteur-general to join us in this idea that the internet must become the tool through which european citizens can really take an interest in and be aware of what is happening in europe. i am not thinking only of the written internet, which obviously already enables a great deal, but also of the broadcasting of debates - such as the budget debate, committee debates, public meetings of the council when they are held, the daily conferences of the european commission. we believe that this tool, which is very cheap, can really help citizens to be aware of what is happening in the european institutions.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr andersson, for his commitment and the result achieved in agreeing on a text of a report which, in committee, was voted on by almost unanimous agreement of its members. i hope that the same will be true tomorrow when the vote is taken. i am equally pleased to thank the commissioner, mrs diamantopoulou, for her commitment and for her continued commitment to ensure that the reforms which the 15 member states are trying to implement do not lead to extreme poverty for the already too poor elderly, for whom, in many of these states, the only income is a pension. that said, i would like to express my opinion on the different way in which the laudable aim of having secure, funded pensions in the future should be implemented. it is absolutely essential to erase the waste of the various pension systems of the states of europe; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in italy, for example, each worker is burdened with 34% of pension costs; in switzerland, only 10% is paid to obtain pensions as good as those in italy. and in portugal, for example, you pay 7.6 percent. that means we have to go and see where the waste is, where the inefficiencies are, where we need to change. i would also like to say that there are two ways to pay off debts: there are debtors who, when they are due to pay a debt that has reached maturity, do not show up and run away; there are others who give up their summer holidays, who give up their cars and pay off their debts. the debtors are our 15 member states and the creditors are pensioners and elderly people who live off their pensions. so let us not turn a blind eye to this, but try to pay the debts we owe to the elders of today!
commission. mr president, as i said to the committee on citizens' freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs on 9 september 2003, and in accordance with the messages i received from members of parliament on that occasion, the commission is pursuing its negotiations with the american authorities which receive passenger name record data transferred from the european union with a view to obtaining improved undertakings on four major issues. first, i will touch upon purpose limitation. so far, the united states has refused to limit its use of passenger name record data to the fight against terrorism. the americans also want to cover other serious domestic criminal offences. so far, they have not been prepared to further narrow these down. second, as far as the scope of the data required is concerned, the united states requires 39 different pnr elements, which it is hard to regard as necessary for or proportionate to the purpose. the commission is seeking a reduction in the list of 39 data elements from the united states. thirdly, the data storage periods are still far too long. mrs boogerd-quaak has stressed that they last six to seven years. fourth, american undertakings are insufficiently legally-binding, since the available extra-judicial redress mechanisms are not fully independent. therefore we must insist that rights are, to the greatest possible extent, legally-binding and thus actionable before american courts. currently, we are working with the target date of christmas 2003, the date that i set when i last spoke to the libe committee. ideally, an adequacy decision should be well on track by that time. an adequacy decision will only be possible, however, if the united states is ready to improve significantly its undertakings. i must be frank with the house and say that i am not confident that we shall be able to secure the necessary significant improvements in order for the commission to be able to make an adequacy finding. however, progress in the united states' commitments is in any case necessary for any kind of solution, whatever its legal form - be it an adequacy finding or, if supported by the european parliament, a bilateral international agreement. the most recent step in our negotiations with the united states was the meeting which i held yesterday with under secretary asa hutchinson of the us department of homeland security - he is the number two person in that department. that was a useful meeting in which we discussed all the main issues and agreed to put our officials to work to make further efforts to find a solution in the coming weeks. when i am in washington in mid-october i expect to meet with senior homeland security officials, including, hopefully, secretary tom ridge. i emphasised to mr hutchinson yesterday the urgency of finding a solution – and of course i also referred to the serious concern with which pnr transfers are viewed in this parliament. i find it difficult to accept any remark that the commission is tolerating the situation and not doing its job as guardian of the treaties. as far as the data protection directive is concerned, applying the law is a job for the member states and their data protection authorities. the commission's immediate role is to ensure that it is the member states that respect the directive, not the airlines. but the problem, in any case, is not one that we can solve via purely intra-european means. we have a conflict of laws with the united states and that is the heart of the matter. in my talks with the united states authorities, i hope to be firm. but being entirely inflexible on the european side will not necessarily obtain more flexibility from our counterparts. regarding passenger consent, which was mentioned by some members as a possible way out - at least in the short term - this would not, in our view, constitute a legally-secure, longer-term solution. first, making consent unambiguous would prove very burdensome in practice. second, the result would be a transfer of data that – despite being legal in the eu – would still lack any significant protection on the american side. therefore, securing the best possible undertakings from the united states on the way in which they will treat the data collected from eu citizens is much to be preferred. the oral question submitted by mrs boogerd-quaak also refers to what should happen if an adequacy finding cannot be reached by the end of the year. she proposes to stop the data transfers that are not in accordance with the principles of non-discrimination, prior informed consent and an efficient appeals procedure, and to begin immediate negotiations on an international agreement with the united states. these measures reflect to some extent the options for possible courses of action that i outlined in my meeting with the libe committee earlier this month. however, as i stressed then, we should be very prudent not to shoot ourselves in the foot. enforcement action may be superficially attractive, but it is not clear that its consequences would be those that we seek. therefore, let us cross that bridge when we come to it. political judgments will have to be exercised at the right moment. it is clear that the course we shall follow will fully involve the parliament and the council. i am sure we can all agree on the need to unite to combat terrorism. but we equally agree on the need to avoid security concerns becoming an excuse for dismantling our civil rights and liberties. i should like to assure the house that the commission will continue to devote its unstinting efforts to finding an agreed solution with the united states on this important but also very delicate issue. the solution needs to be found as a matter of urgency, and must respect the law on both sides of the atlantic.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard some key dates in this affair. the first is certainly on 5 march 2003, when the united states asked airlines operating between the united states and europe to make available all passenger data: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data are not only available to the airlines but also to the airlines. the second date is march 15th of this year. only a week later, in a timely fashion worthy of the best cause, this parliament passed the resolution calling for the application of the 1995 directive and the 1989 regulation on the protection of privacy. the third date is september 23rd, today: six months after the adoption of this resolution, it seems that almost nothing has changed. the commission's calls for action are not being heeded overseas. it begs the question: are the americans deaf or is the commission unable to find the right words? and so, even today, those who go to america are asked, in addition to the usual generalities, about the religion practiced, the food tastes, the places of the last holidays and the relatives near and far. of course, it's certainly too much! and it is right that the commission should speak out, that this parliament should call for a more determined commitment, perhaps through an international treaty, as the resolution proposes. however, i think it is also worth remembering another date: i was in the hospital on september 11, 2001. we all remember that it was then that the application of strict controls began. in the face of this shocking memory, i think we can still find a small dose of patience and understand that perhaps, alongside a definitely annoying form of indiscretion towards the person, there is still too much fear. i mean, as the commissioner said, perhaps a little flexibility could help the dialogue.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the current situation of illegality is obvious. the direct, unfiltered access of the us authorities to the personal data of european passengers is without legal basis and contrary to article 8 of the charter of fundamental rights; is contrary to community provisions on the protection of personal data; is contrary to the community regulation on electronic reservation systems. the european commission is partly responsible for this illegal situation, because the us legislation which required the collection of this data dates back to november 2001, was updated in may 2002, and the system only came into force in march 2003. in the meantime, the commission failed to inform parliament, negotiated with the united states at the level of officials and finally reached a joint declaration on 18 february 2003 which in fact allowed the us authorities indiscriminate access to the personal data of european citizens, collected for other purposes by airlines, and even suggested to the national supervisory authorities that they should not take any action against airlines that accepted us requests. only the firm reaction of the european parliament and the supervisory authorities themselves finally led the commission to recognise that the adequate protection required by article 25 of the directive for the transfer of data collected in the union does not exist. i would like to point out, however, that in the case of italy, the ban on access by the supervisory authority to data collected by alitalia did not lead to any negative reaction or sanctions by the us authorities. the commission must therefore make a stronger effort to reach a genuine international agreement with the united states in the short term, which would regulate the matter on the basis of fundamental principles: respect for the principle of reciprocity, according to which if the union guarantees us citizens the same rights as its own citizens, the us must do the same for european citizens; respect for the principle of proportionality; the principle of informed consent of the persons concerned with the right to have recourse to an independent authority or court. in the meantime, until a satisfactory agreement is reached, legality is restored and access to data that breaches community rules is prohibited. in the future, we must also ensure that a centralised system is set up at european level for the computerized collection of data on air travel reservations, with appropriate filters for the transmission to third parties of the only data which it is legitimate to communicate, in compliance with the fundamental rights of european citizens which we, parliament and the commission, have an obligation to protect, including in the face of terrorism.
mr president, commissioner, flexibility is great for negotiations, but it is terrible for law enforcement. article 2 of regulation no 22/99 prohibits the disclosure of personal information about a passenger to third parties who are not parties to the transaction without his or her consent. commissioner, you said that the responsibility for compliance with the legislation lies with the member states. that is true of the directive, but it is not true of the regulation. you have full powers to intervene, to enforce the law, under article 11 which states: the commission, acting on a complaint or on its own initiative, shall initiate proceedings to bring to an end any infringement of the provisions of this regulation. we want to ask for a counterproductive respect for the law? i believe, first of all, that when a law exists, it must be respected and that any prerequisite for reform - even if it is a reform of an international treaty - is respect for the form. commissioner, you would gain more power in international negotiations if the commission - as it has the power, as well as the power of the member states - immediately enforced compliance with the law. the deadline is not one of our own making, but it is - and in my view must be - that of article 232 of the treaty, which provides for two months from our request to act, otherwise we have two months to bring an action before the court of justice.
- i can assure you, mrs figueiredo, that the president is already in contact with the nigerian authorities to make them aware of our position, which is already known and was clearly expressed on monday in several speeches on this subject.
- thank you for the information, mrs mckenna. it goes without saying that the president will be in touch with the french authorities. we'll do it the right way. we may not use the same words as you, but that does not prevent us from expressing our opinions freely. we will certainly contact the french authorities about this situation and, if necessary, of course express our surprise if things are as you have described them.
- the report (a5-0299/2003) by mr gil-robles gil-delgado and mr tsatsos, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the draft treaty establishing a constitution for europe and the opinion on the convening of the intergovernmental conference (igc) [11047/2003 - c5-0340/2003 - 2003/0902 (cns)) is on the agenda.
mr president, the convention has done an important job, handing europe the text of a constitution which will make an effective contribution to building our future. this work must be defended by detractors and opponents, but it must be further improved. it is not true that there is no scope for doing so. i therefore share and support the proactive view of president prodi, who sees the value of the text but also sees the limitations and risks that may result from it. i am not going to go into detail here. i am not referring to inadequate content and social rights, which are the result of the actual and present balance of power. it is no coincidence, for example, that the constituent assembly, which wrote the splendid italian constitution after the war, had the communist umberto terracini as its president, while today our convention is presided over by the very respectable but very moderate mr giscard d'estaing. i am therefore referring to strictly institutional matters: firstly, a full-time president of the council, who is in office for a long time, instead of being in rotation, ends up overlapping the president of the commission and coming into conflict with him, causing paralysis and crises in the institutions. secondly, unanimity should be abolished in all matters, since the right of veto can block any innovative process at any time. thirdly, the foreign policy must be unique and must be accompanied by a european military force which, by surpassing nato, will enable us to play a role which is not only autonomous but also balancing the unipolar and imperial domination which is present and looming in the world today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, these days we are watching our heads of state and government parade one by one before the united nations gallery. whoever does not march is europe. i think this image is enough to avoid making big speeches and, above all, to say what is not in this convention. in the end, this convention is the expression of a laborious institutional tinkering, difficult to explain, even more difficult to understand and, consequently, unpleasant. it is a complicated, complex and, i fear, not very functional job. there are undoubtedly improvements in the internal areas relating to european citizens or our lives - those which have been defined as 'collateral' areas - but the problem which this convention does not address and does not solve is that of defining the role, the responsibility, the means, the procedures for making europe not only what it already is - a great economic power - but what it should be, that is, a political co-actor and responsible for world affairs. we did not even try to answer that. the convention expresses the image of an introverted europe, an almost umbilical europe, which certainly cares about the welfare of its citizens but which gives itself no structures, procedures, commitments, nothing at all as regards its responsibilities which it also has beyond its borders. we are not even giving ourselves the means to respond to this need for europe, to this call for europe, to this demand for europe, which is so strong in so many parts of the world, starting with the near middle east and the southern shore of the mediterranean, to this need for european values, to be partners in a development that is substantially fairer, that is to say more based on human, civil and political rights. we condemn ourselves by this convention to be always and in any case - of course, grumbling - at the mercy of others. all this is too easy, but above all it is wrong in my opinion to the spirit and the ambition and in particular to our duties as europeans towards peoples who, although not being europeans, are next to us. as a long-standing and increasingly convinced federalist, for political realism, for the sake of europe, which should be able to build on its own successes to promote others, at least in the neighbouring areas, i believe that this convention is a lost opportunity: a missed opportunity that others will suffer. we europeans may improve our living conditions, but others will suffer from our small cowardices, our great mediocrity, precisely because we have decided to remain a mere great economic power. it's not enough! that is not what being european is, at least not for me! (applause) i would like to thank
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the development of european public law, from the treaty of westphalia to the treaty on the european communities, has enabled us today to accept the innovative idea, previously unthinkable, of a constitutional treaty which has, at the same time, partly the characteristics of a treaty and partly those of a constitution. the project we are considering today is a great step forward, especially in the construction of a single european area of freedom, security and justice. it is a step forward because the community method is largely applied in this area, which should be the only method of decision-making in a federated europe because it respects the values of democracy and the rule of law, both of which are based on the principle that laws must be approved by the representatives of the people, and therefore european laws must be approved by the european parliament. it also respects the principle that decisions must be taken by qualified majority, which enhances unity, whereas unanimity enhances particularism and division: where this approach is adopted, europe is moving towards the future; the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past.
mr president, beyond the first quick remarks which were heard in this house on 3 september, parliament can now give a much more complete opinion on the draft constitution adopted by the convention. it can do so thanks to the careful and objective analysis which the report by mr gil-robles gil-delgado and mr tsatsos has given us: the commission's proposal is based on a review of the convention's draft, which is aimed at exploiting all the innovations, all the progress and all the potential that the draft convention presents. the reasons for the european parliament's strong and clear call for the intergovernmental conference to make the convention's outcome its own are therefore clear. i would add that we feel particularly the significance and the emotion of this historical passage: the birth of a european constitution, which was the dream of altiero spinelli. the project he supported, which was approved by this parliament almost 20 years ago, laid the foundations for this with foresight. this, however, cannot prevent us from making a clear assessment of the text which has been rejected by the convention, and from discovering its shortcomings, contradictions and unknowns. the gil-robles/tsatsos report did not silence them, nor did it shy away from the responsibility of calling them to account with the necessary critical spirit. mr president of the council, the basic problem is not that parliament is dissatisfied with the failure to accept some of its positions and proposals, but that it is concerned that the union may not be able to meet the challenges that lie ahead. it is on this basis that we call on the intergovernmental conference to reflect, to consider every possibility of strengthening the coherence of the draft constitution and to avoid any distortion of it, to prevent any backsliding. our parliament, through its committee on constitutional affairs, will follow the conference with the greatest attention and vigilance. the approach we have adopted is highly constructive, not uncritical, but highly responsible, and i believe that there can be no contradiction between our approach and that of the commission, without prejudice to the distinction and autonomy of each of the two institutions. the italian presidency can count on their concerted efforts to resist the pressure of those governments who want to reopen negotiations, because, mr president, negotiations have already been included in the convention and reopening them on essential points could make the conference ungovernable. we hope that the italian presidency will show linearity and firmness.
mr president, sweden's vote well describes the political and economic framework in which, with three prosperous countries such as britain, sweden and denmark outside the euro, we are about to launch the european constitution. i fear that it will not be able to stop the process of destroying national and regional potential, but will instead promote the construction of a european superstate ruled by a stateless technocracy, which is subservient to the wishes of globalism. a european constitution, especially today with the serious challenge of china - which has managed to counterfeit not only products but also the logo of the european union - should instead provide for the reintroduction of duties and protective borders on our production, especially in the defensive function of the system of small and mediumsized enterprises and our agri-food production. first of all, it should recognise the constitutional value of protecting and enhancing our cultural identities in order to preserve an ethno-cultural, historical and linguistic heritage unique in the world. we, the citizens of padua, cannot accept a european constitution which, instead of being inspired by the ideas and historical roots of charlemagne, seems to have as its only spiritual horizon the euro/dollar ratio. it should rather take pride in claiming its christian roots, especially in the face of the grave danger of creeping islamisation. it is unacceptable, then, that there is no specific reference to the rights of peoples, although they are enshrined in the various un resolutions, and in particular to the principle of self-determination of peoples, which is indispensable for us padanians, and which has provoked the legitimate protest of the representatives of non-italian ethnic groups in the italian state, from the sardinians to the waldostani and the south tyrolese. sixty years after the chivasso charter, the historic act of federalism, drawn up on 19 december 1943 - a particularly difficult time for europe and for our country - by representatives of the waldensian, waldensian and occitan regions, in defence of regional cultures against the centralism of rome, we cannot sanction a constitution which ignores the rights of peoples and regions, if we want to respect the thought of those fathers.
mr president, the intergovernmental conference which will open in rome on 4 october represents an extraordinary opportunity for the whole of the european union, for the almost 500 million citizens who are finally calling for institutions that are closer to the people than they have been up to now. it would be a grave political mistake to scuttle the work of the igc and not give europe its first constitution. i am optimistic and personally convinced that no one will take the responsibility of cancelling the work of the convention and of cancelling the hopes of finally having a politically strong and authoritative europe, a europe which can represent, on the institutional stage, the force called upon to balance a scenario dominated today by the united states and, in the future, by the growth of chinese power. let me be clear: we believe in a europe that is more authoritative, more autonomous than the united states, but at the same time a friend and ally of a country and a people who have made a decisive contribution to ensuring freedom and democracy on our continent. i share the view of the italian presidency and of those who believe that the system approved by the convention cannot be changed. the good is the enemy of the good: to pursue unrealisable projects would be to miss the goal we are all committed to. it would be very serious, as you have said here, mr antonione, to accept compromises on the downside, and i take this opportunity as a member of the european parliament to thank the italian presidency for its commitment to having these assises present at the intergovernmental conference. i therefore share the approach of the gil-robles/tsatsos report with regard to the important role that the european parliament will have to play, and i hope that other countries will follow the advice of the italian presidency and stand up in support of the commitment made in this house by president berlusconi. certain amendments to the text adopted by the convention will of course have to be made, such as the increase in the number of matters on which decisions can be taken by qualified majority and the need to reach agreement on the number and role of commissioners. it would be a grave historical error, mr president, to exclude any reference to the judeo-christian roots of europe. it is not a question of abandoning the secular nature of the institutions; it is not a question of the european parliament's ability to act, but rather of strengthening this indispensable characteristic, in the light of the gospel precept which says: "pay back caesar's things to caesar, but god's things to god". it would be useful to recall the words of many lay people - i am thinking of the philosopher norberto bobbio, the philosopher benedetto croce - who have insisted on the role and importance of religions in the history and growth of europe. and then there is the great painter marc chagall, a european painter, a jew, who also devoted himself to depicting the religiousness of europeans, and who said that painters have dipped their brushes in that colourful alphabet of hope which is the holy scriptures. i would also like to refer to the words of chancellor schroeder, who said in the bundestag that he was not opposed to the inclusion of the reference to judeo-christian roots in the constitutional treaty. a europe which wants to explore new horizons, which is called upon to welcome new citizens of different religions, cannot erase its roots. mr. president, we cannot explore new horizons if we don't know where we came from. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr council representative, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome and fully agree with the contents of the report under discussion. we would certainly have liked the text proposed by the convention to be more progressive towards the process of integration, but we realize that the compromise reached is the only possible one and we must acknowledge this, sharing the approach given by president giscard d'estaing, who said at the opening of the convention: our unity is the reason for our existence. i believe that a text so agreed upon cannot easily be changed by the intergovernmental conference, except in a few marginal respects. the point on which we should concentrate our pressure on the intergovernmental conference is therefore one and the most important, namely the rules for the revision of the constitutional treaty. if we tie any amendment to the constitution to the unanimity of the 25 or 27 member states or, in the future, of a still greater number, we risk turning this great stage in europe's history into a stopover for its future and the end of its hopes.
mr president, i have two comments to make on the gil-robles/tsatsos report, which reflects the expectations but also the fears of this parliament. the first point concerns the identity of europe. i remember the words of a great liberal historian: because we can't not call ourselves christians. reference to christian roots could reinforce the secularism of a policy that continues to be threatened by the indifference and idolatry of power. but what we call for in order to unite must not divide europe. i am convinced that the reference to the human person and to peace, freedom and democracy, human rights and pluralism is the constitutional expression of the christian and democratic values which inspired the action of the founding fathers of the european community. the second point concerns the prospect of revising a compromise which the intergovernmental conference can improve without calling into question the institutional balance proposed by the convention. the report deplores the fact that the unanimity of the states continues to determine the process of revising the constitution, even in the long term. i think that the commission's view, as reiterated by commissioner barnier, that the igc should pave the way for more flexible revision procedures, which do not allow for the right of veto, at least as regards the non-fundamental provisions of the treaty, should be supported.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is necessary to make a start, after having congratulated the rapporteurs on their work. there was a long debate on whether it was necessary, appropriate and proper to introduce a reference to christian values or even to god in the context of the text under consideration and the text to be approved. i believe that, beyond the formal aspects - and i would not mind if there were a reference to christian values - and beyond what the verbal expressions may be, it is important to note that the text that has emerged, which is emerging in the course of its evolution, respects those values. i think the text shows a substantial respect for christian values: respect for human life and respect for human dignity are in fact reference points on which much work has been done in the convention. i think it is important to stress that, beyond the wording of the text, there is a reference to our history, to our life, which has been conditioned and shared by christian values. the steps taken to reach a convention, a constitution and new treaties have been useful in my view. i am not pessimistic, but i think that the work done, although slow, has been fruitful overall, although some progress can still be expected. i often think of what europe might have been like if the institutions that exist today had not existed, and i remember what our continent was essentially like 60 years ago. i must therefore say that what has been done - both in terms of the direct legitimization of citizens, the search for channels of consensus and the management of institutions and consensus - is to be considered positive overall. many argue that the citizens are still far away. perhaps these citizens should be more involved in the development of europe; it is perhaps up to us to recognize their rights and to ensure that, through an important source, namely the call for justified expenditure, effective and valid bureaucracy, there can be a link with civil society.
mr president, i would like to emphasize three points: the question of unanimity, the mention of god and christianity, the traditionally resident minorities. the work done by both the convention and the rapporteurs is certainly positive; i am therefore addressing the pessimists and those who always say no. i am saying that, compared to a complete constitution, we are obviously halfway there, but compared to nice, we have made steps forward which were and are giant steps. but this report also needs to be corrected, as president prodi has said in this house, and i share his view. the first point i would like to make is that of unanimity. in my view, requiring unanimity for even minor constitutional changes is surely closing the door to future developments. we are trying to be more forward-looking and more open, and in this respect i also share the spirit of amendment no 20, which i shall be voting in favour of. on the second question, namely the mention of god and christianity, i cannot understand the intransigent position of certain sections of this house, which is in fact contrary to the opinion of the vast majority of the population. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. the third point concerns linguistic and cultural diversity and minority rights, which are included in amendment no 22 in recital h. i believe that the minorities which were included in the copenhagen criteria should also have a place in this report. i ask the italian presidency to make efforts to this end, before and during the igc, and to ensure that they are also mentioned in the convention.
- mr korakas has asked to speak on a point of order.
- mr. korakas, i have no intention of reopening the debate.
- mrs berès, as you know, the decision is taken by the conference of presidents. report (a5-0299/2003) by mr gil-robles gil-delgado and mr tsatsos, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the draft treaty establishing a constitution for europe and the opinion of the european parliament on the convening of the intergovernmental conference (igc) [11047/2003 - c5-0340/2003 - 2003/0902 (cns))
mr president, the european parliament has just voted on the andersson report on adequate and sustainable pensions. it approved, among other things, paragraph 16, in which the european parliament calls for the raising of the effective retirement age to be achieved by incentives, and not - i repeat - disincentives such as the drastic reduction in the amount of the pension. the european parliament is therefore going in the opposite direction to the italian government, which has put forward a proposal to postpone old age pensions for five years from 2008 with disincentives and what disincentives! : the pension is cancelled for five years. this will bring 25 billion euros to the state coffers in 2013, while there will be two million fewer jobs for young people or for the unemployed.
mr president, i did not vote for this report because i believe that this matter should be left to national sovereignty and legislation, without interference from brussels.
mr president, i did not vote for the report, although i was in favour of the text adopted by the convention, in which i was a substitute, because this report excludes any reference to the christian roots of europe. in addition, there is an excessive propensity to limit the voting to unanimity, which is one of the values on which the european union was initially founded, even when it had another name. i believe that the unanimous vote is a bulwark in defence of the sovereignty of the states and in defence of that national interest which is so dear to the majority of italian political forces. i hope that the intergovernmental conference will substantially confirm the work of the convention, even against the wild attacks of president prodi, who is trying in every way to bring about its overthrow.
in writing. - (it) i am not satisfied with this resolution, which is too long and not easily understood by the uninitiated; the commission has also been ambiguous on a fundamental point, the revision procedure. it is not enough to deplore the continuation of the unanimity vote and the rejection of the european parliament's ratification power. parliament's demands should be made a central issue, since the only way to fill the gaps in the text of the convention is to ensure that a democratic method of ratification is in place to move forward. on this point, the rapporteurs and the majority of the parliament preferred to maintain a rigid and erroneous position: it is wrong to say that the revision procedure is part of the agreement concluded by the convention. this is practically the only point on which we are asking the intergovernmental conference to take a decision! why, then, did i decide to vote in favour of this resolution, which i do not like? because for the time being, it is necessary to send a clear message: the igc must not unilaterally reopen the essential points of the text adopted by the convention. that is what the resolution says. as from 4 october, if the igc decides to reopen the agreements, we will start fighting again about its content.
in writing. - (it) no one can deny the need for a european union with institutions that are more transparent and better defined in terms of their respective competences and roles and, therefore, less bureaucratic and more capable of intervening quickly, as needed, in a europe that would entrust the individual member states with matters of an exclusively internal nature to deal only with the major problems affecting society as a whole and our continent in particular, all of which are the objectives that form the basis of the text developed during the eighteen months of work of the european convention. we welcome the fact that the convention has established that europe must be a union of nation states, respectful of the languages, cultures and traditions of each of its components, and that from this union, strengthened by a constitutional treaty, must emerge a political, economic and social project capable of protecting our children, but also the rights of the children of others: a europe which, while defending democracy, freedom and peace for its peoples, is also able to promote freedom, peace and justice in other parts of the world. it is precisely in order to ensure that democracy is respected that we call on the intergovernmental conference to welcome the proposal for a commissioner with voting rights for each member state, recalling how the peace of westphalia introduced the concept of equality between states, beyond the number of inhabitants. (text as amended by article 137 (1) of the regulation)
in writing. - (it) we voted against a very complex draft constitution which is difficult to explain and understand: it is difficult to imagine how its different mechanisms, dialectics and balance of power will work in reality. a very complex institutional organization is by its very nature not secular except for the priests of the bureaucracy who control the reality of every day: the reality that is not controllable and cannot function. although there is no denying that progress has been made compared to the present situation, it is in the field of home affairs and related matters. but there are also regressions, such as the insertion of article 51 (1), the declaration annexed to the treaty, which confirms the status of religious bureaucracies. in fact, the union is being forced to engage in regular dialogue with the churches, thus violating the principle of secularism, the principle of separation between public institutions and religious organisations. this is a sanction for the power of the churches to interfere, which is likely to constitute an obscurantist obstacle to the right of european citizens to decide freely on ethical and scientific questions. the union is also prevented from examining or reconsidering the situation of the churches in the member states, thus ensuring the preservation of the privileges they enjoy thanks to the concordat signed with franco in spain, mussolini in italy, salazar in portugal and hitler in germany. (text as amended by article 137 (1) of the regulation)
- this concludes voting time. (the sitting was suspended at 2 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, i have the impression that too many speakers in this house refer to the roadmap without having read it and then, because of their ignorance of the document, draw an ambiguous lesson. the roadmap is a three-step plan. the premise of all this is the very title of the first phase ending terror and violence, normalizing palestinian life, building palestinian institutions and it aims to undertake an immediate and unconditional cessation of violence by the palestinians. this is the crucial point, without which everything else becomes ambiguous, uncertain or vaguely predicative. it is quite absurd to ask israel, in the absence of a palestinian cessation of terrorism, to take other or different initiatives from those it has taken so far. no european state would fail to respond to a series of terrorist attacks, particularly against defenseless civilians, by force and legal repression. i am not convinced by the calls to keep arafat where he is, because he is the legitimate representative of the palestinian people, when everyone recognizes that there are no democratic institutions within the palestinian community. arafat has failed camp david and he has failed abu mazen. i think it would be more serious on the european side to take a very strict attitude towards his behaviour, which is the precondition for a different approach.
mr president, listening to and participating in this debate, after fifty years and seven wars in the middle east, we feel that we are running the risk of each of us becoming a little master of democracy and the budget, capable of applying measures and prejudices which are only ours. it is true that we may not always have appreciated the role played by arafat, as we have almost never appreciated the role played by sharon, but we cannot forget that president arafat was democratically elected president of a people who have no country, no territory, no peace. it 's a sin to forget . a sin of presumption, a sin of reticence and a sin of superficiality. if we condemn with firmness and with absolute sincerity the terror against israel - and we condemn it with all our strength, with all our indignation - we must condemn with equal force and indignation the media lynching of a democratically elected president of a people. we ask the presidency not to confine itself to denouncing exile as an unacceptable outcome. the indecency of the incitement to murder, which was made by a minister in the israeli government and by an authoritative newspaper such as the jerusalem post, must be denounced. what can europe do? just put hamas on the blacklist? that's not enough. three things must be firmly established: we must demand an end to the blockade of the palestinian territories. we must demand the cessation of all settlement-related activities. we must demand the demolition of the security wall, which is de facto annexation and illegal under international law. europe must do its utmost, and one possibility is to send a force on the ground to make a decisive and concrete contribution to ensuring that mutual obligations are respected. the only alternative to peace is peace, but for that to be possible europe must do something.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr urso, commissioners, the first game played in cancún was a game of trade agreements. i believe that if the wto is to survive, this must remain the main theme of the negotiations. but essentially, the game was political, based on a paradox - repeatedly mentioned by commissioner lamy in his meetings with the european parliament delegation - that at the beginning almost all the discussions were about agriculture, which accounts for 20% of international trade. and it's true, it's a paradox that we've all contributed heavily to creating. the cancún summit was a propaganda game, and the heirs of metternich and talleyrand need hardly be told how important propaganda is in international politics. we europeans have offered our adversaries, if they were any, a formidable argument and propaganda on a silver platter to international public opinion. it was said that there were red lines concerning agriculture, the general abolition of the odious export subsidies and a ceiling on the green box subsidies, which, in theory, should not distort markets. it was said that rather than cross this red line, it was better that the negotiations should fail, as they did. the fact that an industrial power such as the european union is showing itself with these remorse, with these red lines, is one of the reasons why we are today mourning a failure that weighs on the european union much more than it does on, for example, the united states. and i won't have time to explain why, in my opinion, this is happening. the very fact that the commissioner for agriculture - and i am not sure about mr fischler - is here today, on an equal footing with commissioner lamy, to explain to us what has happened in cancún, is an anomaly, it is the european paradox on agricultural policy. of course, we say that european agricultural protectionism, after all, is not so different from that of the united states; in fact, perhaps with the reform of the european agricultural policy we have managed to overtake the united states. the japanese do worse with rice than we do. but we are thinking of europe's interests! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. they were doing it for instrumental reasons, to cover the tariffs of close to 90 percent on indian textiles. that may be true, but how do we explain to these people that we want new rules for investment? we ask developing countries for rules on competition, on public procurement, and then we continue to subsidize the export of meat or rice or whatever. we could then have a long discussion, madam president, about everything but arms. we have postponed the final abolition of tariffs on rice, bananas and sugar until 2010. is that all we can offer the developing countries? the president interrupted the speaker.
commission. - madam president, my colleague mr franz fischler will join us and answer those of you whom i have not had the chance to hear. two general remarks before moving on to a few more specific points in response to your observations. first general comment: i would like to see us, if possible, to clear up a misunderstanding that i feel here and there when we talk about the world trade organisation. the world trade organisation remains an organisation where concessions are negotiated, which represent additional access to certain markets, and where rules are negotiated to ensure that trade development is in the general interest. the hard truth is that this is a bargaining chip. we are negotiating interests there, even if we accept them more than other values, given our european idealism. but we must bear this fact in mind if we are to make progress in our discussions. i have heard philip herzog say that there is no evangelicalism. i don't take this as a lesson, but as a reminder of reality. if it's true for others, it's true for us. secondly, as a general remark, many of you have stressed the geopolitical dimension which was superimposed on the commercial dimension of the negotiations in cancun. i agree with you and perhaps this dimension has, at some point in the preparations for cancun, escaped us in part. any suggestions on this subject will be welcome next time. third and last general remark: in these trade matters there is a south-south dimension which is essential and which we should not forget, even if, on this subject too, in view of our well-known tropisms, it is the north-south dimension which interests us most. it is essential for developing countries to open their markets and accept a number of rules. everyone knows that this is a necessary condition and that the opening of markets and the acceptance of the rules by the north will not be enough. i would like to see this point made from time to time by those of you who are rightly particularly interested in the position of the developing countries. a few more specific remarks before we let the debate continue. firstly, you are right about the reform of the world trade organisation: a number of its rules and mechanisms need to be reviewed; the wto should try to strengthen its cooperation with who, ilo, fao, unep and other organisations in the un family. i agree with that and we will think about it. it is also important to note that on this road, which is probably the one we europeans intuitively want to follow, we may sometimes find ourselves quite alone, because i do not see many developing countries taking the same direction. as for the us interest in a better coherence of what we call international governance, we know that this is not necessarily its natural inclination. so, we are willing to think about it, but we are also aware that other partners will have to join us on this road and that this will require recruitment. what are the next steps, you asked repeatedly? i think it's too early to tell. first, because we need to take the time to analyse what has happened in depth. i believe that today's debate has contributed to this and i thank you on behalf of the commission. secondly, because we must also take the time to make contacts with each other, contacts which cannot always be made publicly in this type of negotiation, especially with our friends in the developing countries. so we're going to do all this without any haste. several options will have to be considered. we will do so collectively in the commission and then we will see whether or not the commission suggests a change in its mandate, should this negotiation be relaunched. i have heard many expressions of support, and i thank you for that, because for franz fischler and for me, this support is even more valuable in bad times than in good times. i also heard some criticisms which i will try to answer very quickly. mrs lucas reproached me both for not having moved enough on the singapore issues and for not having moved on export subsidies. on export subsidies, mrs lucas, i am embarrassed to say that this is completely inaccurate. when franz fischler and i put on the table a proposal to say that we are ready to go down to zero for export subsidies on products of interest to developing countries, do not tell me that the european union has not moved. as regards the singapore issues, you said that investment and competition were too much on the table and that is also your view on the issues of transparency of trade transactions, which surprises me, because i thought transparency was one of the principles to which your group was very attached. so, as to your argument that we should get rid of these two transparency issues because the developing countries don't want them, i would like to know if that also applies to the environment and to social clauses, which are issues that the developing countries don't want either. mrs auroi, i cannot let you say without reacting that the european union has supported the american position on cotton. if that's the information you have, i'd like to correct it immediately. i have said in public, in plenary, in cancun, what we think of the famous paragraph 27 and i would be grateful if you would correct your information. as regards the feeling expressed by many of you that the union's positions are not sufficiently known in certain parts of our great planet, i take note of this observation. i share that, by the way. i would like to say that we have a limited number of ways of improving this situation and that we will probably be able to talk about it again when the annual budget debate is due. in conclusion, i will reply to a rather specific observation by mr martinez. i'm just thanking him for the parachute thing. i'll give him credit for knowing what he was talking about when it comes to skydiving. more seriously, he blames me for paying in advance for the farm and not being paid back. franz fischler will explain to you that it is the other way around, mr. martinez: you are on the wrong side of the counter. it is true that we are reforming the common agricultural policy for our own reasons and that, for the same price, if we negotiate well at the world trade organisation, we can obtain commitments from the americans in sectors equivalent to our own. this is one reason why the failure of cancun is not good news for european farmers either. i shall end here to allow the debate to continue. as the presidency has indicated, my colleague mr fischler will reply to you at the end of the debate.
madam president, i have the impression that the individual trees which constitute the many details of the failure of cancún prevent us from thinking more deeply about the forest. the same forest that almost four years ago blew up seattle, and it has a name and a surname: it's called the huge imbalance between rich and poor countries, combined with the lack of a agreed strategy to reduce it, a strategy of timing, of policies, of programmes, of numbers, of quantities. it is clear that this strategy is not part of bush's unilateralism. it is true that there is a close link between iraq and cancun, and it is not part of the sum of bilateral agreements. only genuine multilateralism is the right approach, but this is where our limit lies in the preparations for cancún. it is a limitation of the presidency and the council. even if he is not listening, i must say to president urso that i appreciate the frankness of his reasoning and also much of his analysis. but how did we prepare for the cancun meeting? while president bush was calling president lula and the indian prime minister, what did we do? the commission and parliament are also limited. commissioner lamy's forecast - which was also shared by most meps - was that the famous g17 alliance, which later became the g21 and g24, was mainly tactical; for reasons of political predominance, however, this has not been the case, and it will not be the case in the future. madam president, i would have preferred to wait a little longer before we could vote on documents in this house. tomorrow we shall be voting on a rather disappointing document, which will not answer the question 'why cancún failed', nor will it give any indication of how to proceed in the future. in conclusion, i would like to say to commissioner lamy that the wto is, yes, the place where we negotiate, but it is not on the moon or on mars; it is not on the moon or on mars; it is not on the moon or on mars. and the frame is this huge imbalance that exists and that characterizes life in our time on this earth.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the 1996 ten guidelines was certainly necessary, both to solve the increasingly complex infrastructure problems and in anticipation of enlargement. the work of the van miert committee is certainly serious, but it is not entirely acceptable in its strategic framework, which is unbalanced in favour of northern europe and penalizes the south and the mediterranean, an area which is instead the great opportunity and at the same time the great european challenge for the economic, cultural and social cohesion of the peoples and countries with which we are called upon to enter into a new great dialogue. therefore, if italy is a great bridge in the mediterranean between north and south, between east and west, it is not clear why both the adriatic and the tyrrhenian corridors, which were conceived with the criteria of intermodality and interoperability, were deleted from the priorities. only the bridge over the straits of messina remains, which is a special work. the commission is therefore expected to ensure that they are re-listed as essential projects for 2020 and that the best public/private partnership and controls are also pursued.
madam president, we thank mr antonio for his presence here today, but what we wanted to discuss when we asked for this debate was with minister lunardi and commissioner de palacio: but we must note that neither of them is here today. and we don't think this is a coincidence, but a clear political signal. the speech given by the presidency is more about the functioning of the internal market than about achieving the sustainability objectives, and the same goes for the speeches of colleagues: everyone talked about transportation and no one talked about sustainability. the tens review is said to contribute to the development of a quality-efficient and sustainable network, but this is not automatic and requires precise policy choices. the current discussion on the tens review does not talk about integrating environmental concerns and there is no sign of a willingness to do a pre-emptive environmental assessment. let me give you a concrete example. the commission is now in danger of moving the adoption of the so-called 'van miert list', which sets out the ten priorities for the next 20 years, forward to 1 october. the van miert group as it itself acknowledged should have made an assessment of the impact of the projects on the environment, biodiversity, volumes, transport and climate: but he didn't. who should take responsibility for this if not the commission? if the commission does take its decisions by 1 october, it will not be able to do so, but will only have time to ratify the van miert list, which is practically the result of a bargaining between the wishes of this and that government. we believe that before adopting the van miert list, a serious assessment of the costs and benefits of the transeuropean networks proposed in essen is necessary. promote a european transport plan that prioritises the recovery of existing lines, the strengthening of regional networks and the fight against urban traffic congestion; consult local authorities and communities in the spirit of the aarhus convention and reveal the interests of the economic promoters behind large infrastructure projects. there is much more to say, but i hope we will have more opportunities to do so.
madam president, as rapporteur on the tens, i should like to begin by thanking mr antonio for his presence, and i would also like to thank the commissioner, mrs de palacio, for the work he is doing in general terms on this famous project. in the few minutes i have, i would like to emphasise that my experience with the tens has led me to make two observations: on the one hand, we can say that there is perhaps a dream book, something that was decided many years ago and then, in the end, was not carried out, perhaps because of lack of resources, but perhaps also because of lack of will. subsequently, within the individual states, a series of debates were opened on the individual resources, the reference legislation, the question of whether to focus the ten project on the railway or on the priority objectives, but, in the end, of all the initial projects, the famous fourteen, eleven still remain to be completed. on the other hand, what we are trying to do - and i express my appreciation to the commission for what it is trying to do - is to review, thanks also to the work of the van miert high level group, the objectives of the tens and above all the resources. i think that all the individual countries want to see something important in this project for the development of their economies, for the development of employment, to try to really have a network of the fifteen countries, which in future will be twenty-five. it is therefore important to allocate more funds. so let's try to get to a fund that's lost about 30 or 40 percent. we are trying to get not just 600 million euros a year, but to get to between 6 and 8 billion euros a year for the next 10 years. we all hope so and i believe that with the help of the italian presidency this semester we will be able to achieve this.
madam president, i thank under-secretary antonione for his presence up to this moment. i must say that this debate is not adding anything new to what is already known, because, if it is true that there is a general problem concerning sustainable development, the debate at this stage is in fact this: we are on the eve of integration, partial but important, we are now twenty-five countries within the european union, so we are equipping the territory so that relations between the member states can be intensified. the intensification of relations means intensifying trade, cultural, economic and commercial exchanges, because exchanges transfer knowledge and wealth, which puts europe in a position to open the doors to further integration, since the ultimate goal is to achieve the complete unity of our continent. that said, i must point out that the debate tonight is mainly about the work of the van miert committee, and in particular the priorities that have been set on the basis of criteria which, in my view, deserve to be analysed in depth. since i cannot mention them all, i will simply refer to the ten major transeuropean corridors that have been proposed and to the fact that these infrastructures have been essentially assessed in relation to the present european union rather than the future one, in the sense that there has been strong pressure from the countries that are already part of it, while those who are already knocking on the door of the european union have not had any contractual power, essentially putting us in the position of having to look at their needs. i'll give you an example. corridor 8, one of the two corridors for italy, is placed almost at the bottom of the scale of these priorities when it comes to opening a major bridge to the balkans, whose peoples, although recently hit by war, are already showing an accelerated rate of development and are a model for making peoples like those in southern italy, an area with 20 million citizens, become protagonists of development and, through their relations with the world of the balkans and the east, can play an important role within europe. president. - i call mr glinne to speak on behalf of the group of the european people's party.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we had to have a discussion with the council, but we know that part of the responsibility is ours because we have dragged out our previous work. the fact remains - and i also join my colleagues who have said it - that it is a pity that this opportunity cannot be fully exploited. it is a somewhat paradoxical debate without the commission, without the council, but let us at least use it to compare ourselves; i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. i would say to mrs frassoni at once that i too am concerned that sustainability should be at the very core and, so to speak, one of the screening criteria for what we want to achieve. but i am much more concerned about the unsustainability of the present situation. as my socialist colleague mr goebbels rightly said - i do not know whether you have heard, mr president - our citizens are already paying a very high price in terms of quality of life and quality of the environment, precisely because of the dysfunctions, the traffic jams, the traffic congestion and the lack of fluid mobility that characterize our continent. that said, i also believe that we as a parliament must now do a 'truth operation' if we do not want the van miert report to be another dream book or a book of non-priorities, because when we start calling priority projects 10, 20 or 25 projects of such enormous cost, as we all know, we may have made a list of priorities in order to indicate none. i believe that parliament can do this 'truth operation', starting by making those responsible face their responsibilities and asking ourselves whether we want a european transport policy and whether we want a policy on large infrastructures, what costs we are willing to pay to have this policy and, above all, what choices we are prepared to make. otherwise we would continue to have almost useless debates like this, but above all we would continue to create expectations in our fellow citizens and even in some of our governments, whose disillusionment would be and will be more harmful than the failure to achieve something. i think that, while we wait for the commission, and above all the council, to make us understand as much as possible what is behind the will that the italian presidency expressed so clearly at the beginning of its mandate, we can start by launching this provocation. if we have to do it, let us do it, but let us do it seriously and let us sit around a table to see what can be done.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that mr lunardi will have time to look over the minutes of this sitting, because he will also find some interesting indications for his work as president of the council, first of all on the risk - which has already been denounced by my colleague mrs frassoni and which i take for granted - that on 1 october we will find ourselves with a very rapid approval, which will have more of the flavour of ratification, of this list of 18 projects drawn up by the van miert committee. it is clear that approving each of these 18 projects without any strategic assessment of their environmental impact, their viability or their actual safety is merely a notarial function. the commission is called upon to put its stamp on the 18 projects submitted by the governments. i would like the commission to know that when this parliament is called upon to give its opinion, it will not be a notary, nor will it simply ratify; it will be a notary. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i am referring to one project in particular, on which we have had a long discussion with commissioner van miert: the bridge over the strait of messina. there is a clear and concrete opposition to the bridge over the straits from all the local populations concerned. there is a very dubious profitability, there are very strong safety concerns and there is especially a devastating environmental impact, if we build a pylon taller than the empire state building in a suburb of the city of messina. we have made our objections and asked mr van miert to clarify the discriminatory criteria for selecting this project. we have been told that there was a strong demand from the italian government that this bridge should save five and a half million sicilians from isolation. madam president, i say to you that this is false and i say this as a sicilian. the reason for the sicilian isolation is that it takes five hours by train to reach palermo from messina, not twenty minutes by ferry from reggio calabria to messina. we had to put aside another project - this strategic one - namely corridor 8, which would have connected southern europe with the balkan countries, but we also tried to confirm the special attention that the italian presidency also wanted to give to the economic destiny of the balkans. i hope that parliament will have the opportunity to return to this subject, with the commission and the council represented by real human interlocutors.
- the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading (a5-0284/2003), on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reuse of public sector documents (c5-0251/2003 - 2002/0123 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr van velzen).
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading (a5-0269/2003), on behalf of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, on the council's common position with a view to adopting a decision of the european parliament and of the council adopting a multiannual programme (2003-2005) on the follow-up to the eeurope 2005 action plan, the dissemination of good practice and the improvement of network and information security (modinis) [7948/1/2003 - c5-0252/2003 - 2002/0187 (cod) ] (rapporteur: mrs read).
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0298/2003) by mr michael cashman, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on access to european parliament, council and commission documents (application of regulation 1049/2001/ec) [2003/2022 (ini) ].
- madam president, i would like to thank you and all my colleagues for the work you have done in the european parliament in recent years.
mr president, i too thank mr cashman for his excellent report and for his success in bringing to the plenary, with practically unanimous approval, a report of the utmost importance and fundamental content. it seems to me that, in addition to the democratic gap that we all denounce, this debate also reveals a gap between what can be achieved and what is necessary. i very much appreciated the first part of what mr oreja arburúa said, but i thought that he had backed down a little from the need to make the debates in committee public, which, unlike those in the chamber, are certainly much more like a real debate and are much more political. i think that transparency and access to documents are not a slogan, but first and foremost democratic control by the citizens. if we look at the possibilities for democratic control over the work of the institutions today, we see that they are extremely limited. the european parliament is, in general, merely consulted on the basic policies of justice, home affairs, foreign policy and defence. the national parliaments are informed, the court of justice has limited powers and, finally, citizens have the right of access to documents. for example, as has been pointed out, the criticism of the identification of which member state has submitted a particular proposal to the council and how it has voted in that body is not justified. in our view, this is a serious violation of the civil and political rights of citizens. citizens, as well as us national and european parliamentarians, are denied the right to know and judge the work of their government, thus preventing the proper functioning of democracy. on the other hand, it was the european ombudsman who stated in his special report to this parliament that it is pointless to keep legal opinions secret when they are not comparable to a communication between a lawyer and his client. it is not clear why this step towards greater transparency is so feared by the legal services of the institutions and equally covered up by policy makers. another positive element of the report is the criticism of the commission for bending to the member states' wishes in relation to their correspondence with the commission in the context of infringement procedures, whereas, in our view, the same regulation gives the commission a margin of autonomy which it refuses to use. we are afraid that in this way the commission is covering up the wrongdoing of the member states and doing wrong itself. i believe, for example, that in relation to what has happened with regard to the requests for access to correspondence from spain and portugal concerning the infringement proceedings which the commission intended to bring against those countries for breach of a directive on taxation - since the catholic church is exempt from the payment of vat - there is no reason why the reasons put forward by those two states should not be made known in order to persuade the commission to close the case in the face of a clear and objective infringement. i think it is on the basis of concrete cases that we can see what the needs are, and not just the possibilities, that exist in this way of reconciling real needs to overcome the democratic gap.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0292/2003) by mr lisi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of emissions of volatile organic compounds due to the use of organic solvents in decorative paints and varnishes and in products for automotive retouching, and amending directive 1999/13/ec (com (2002) 750 - c5-0632/2002 - 2002/0301 (cod)).
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the commissioner has already said, the proposal we are discussing today is a proposal for the reduction of organic solvents in paints and it is a proposal that is part of a broader environmental strategy, namely the attempt to meet national emission ceilings, in this case for voc emissions. this proposal can therefore be regarded as one of the necessary steps towards the overall improvement of the quality of the air we breathe, and we can only express our full support for it. it is precisely because we firmly believe in this objective - which, as the commissioner said, was brought so dramatically to our attention this summer - that we know that it is in our interest and in the interest of future generations to ensure effective environmental protection. for these reasons, from the very beginning of this legislative process, i have set my work as rapporteur on a very simple line of reasoning: the achievement of the objective of that directive is closely linked to the guarantee of the quality of the products covered by the directive, namely paints. the reasoning is very simple: there is a threshold below which the quality of these products available on the market is bound to fall inexorably, and if the quality - let us not forget that these are most often paints which are used as protective films, especially against atmospheric agents - falls below an acceptable threshold, we would have the opposite effect to what we want. in the medium and long term, there would be a proliferation of applications for these paints and therefore, inevitably, an increase in emissions. i have therefore tried to strike that balance between what is technically possible, without falling too far below an acceptable level of quality, and what must be done, for the reasons just mentioned. i shall now briefly review the main points of the directive. as regards the objective of the directive as such, there have been different reactions from colleagues, especially on the health of workers and on certain national laws to protect them. the commission has again made it clear this evening that the objective of the directive is environmental protection, without prejudice to or alteration of existing measures at national or community level to protect the health of workers, as is also stated in recital 14. some colleagues have tabled amendments in this direction in the plenary, but after the commission's clarifications, i would reiterate that we should reject this enlargement proposal by voting against the amendments, in particular amendments nos 2, 10, 16, 49, 54, 80 and 82. as regards amendment no 84, which helps us to define and clarify the aim of the directive, i am in favour of it. there is also a problem with labelling. personally, i agree with the commission's proposal to entrust a committee with the labelling requirements for the products concerned, especially because, in the light of the many efforts made by the industry to provide clear information to consumers, this committee can be enriched by the experience of existing good practice. i do not think it is useful to impose any further requirements, and that is why i am asking the house to vote against amendment no 20. as regards the so-called substitution principle, as provided for in amendment no 23, i do not think it applies in this context because the undertakings and the industrial system to which we are addressing need data and certainty - what we indicate in this directive - precisely in order to be able to invest in research and develop the formulas necessary to achieve the objectives. there are also many amendments concerning the thresholds, i.e. the percentages which the commission has proposed and which parliament, in the committee on the environment, has amended. i don't go through all of them. i think these are proposals which, by bringing us below the threshold of equilibrium i mentioned earlier, should be rejected. finally, i would like to mention other matters concerning minor derogations for historic vehicles and buildings, monuments and so on, which the commission has accepted and which i ask the house to approve, and some amendments concerning the definition of solvents and their boiling point, which i think will be the subject of further discussion this evening. finally, i would like to thank all the members for the very valuable contribution they have made to the committee.
the rapporteur. mr president, while the commissioner is taking note of this, i would like to say that i agree with what mrs corbey has said. that is exactly the meaning of the proposal in the list of votes proposed by the rapporteur: amendment no 11 and amendment no 13 are in contradiction. i would point out to mr corbey, however, that this is a mess made by our committee. i therefore ask that amendment no 11 be supported and approved and that amendment no 13 be voted against, precisely in order to establish a definition of 'diluents' which is consistent with the rest of the legislation.
- i would like to avoid reopening the debate and therefore propose that we continue our work. in the meantime, commissioner, your services can try to clarify the situation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the oral question to the commission (b5-0275/2003), by mrs jackson, on the progress report on the european union's participation in the implementation plan of the world summit on sustainable development.
commission. – mr president, i listened to mrs corbey earlier today and she said that the concept of sustainable development offers a kind of magic, a kind of understanding, and requires a holistic approach. such a concept is also an extremely difficult one because it has to be translated into what mr davies mentioned. it has to be translated into the concrete number of new wells that have to be drilled or into providing pipes and other items necessary for good sanitation facilities for poor people. that is why i like your questions so much, because this is exactly how we have to proceed now. what have we been doing? we are, as you know, preparing a report for the end of the year which will explain exactly what this 'water for life' initiative means and what it contains. the discussion so far in the council has presented difficulties for some member states. the council is not fond of the idea of setting up a secretariat for the particular purpose of a water fund – although perhaps you should ask the council about this, because who am i to say how it discusses the matter? perhaps the council wants greater flexibility in the use of this edf money, at least, that is how i understand the direction the discussion is taking in the council. however, when we discuss the 'water for life' initiative, it covers both water and sanitation. there are a number of initiatives that range from looking at the approach to river-basin management, to big rivers in africa, to very concrete projects like drilling wells. in our report, which you will receive before the end of 2003, we will show exactly what has been achieved so far and how we can establish ownership in poor countries, for example in africa. we have concentrated on africa, but we also need to get its people on board and allow them to feel that this is their project, that they can work on it and achieve good results. i do not have the figures to give you the exact numbers, but we are compiling them now to provide clear evidence of what has been done so far and of how we think the next steps should be designed. our other problem is that we know each other, perhaps, too well in our discussions on sustainable development. however, this matter has to be integrated into all other policy areas. this is exactly what you have been saying in all contexts, from trade to agriculture, energy or transport. we have to subject the matter to the johannesburg check that mrs corbey has mentioned. we should be able to come back and see whether we have changed the time perspective or the geographical perspective. we will, of course, continue to ensure that this policy is integrated better in what we do and ensure policy coherence, because that is really the major challenge. i cannot agree more with you on, amongst the other issues you mentioned, the need for education and research, which applies across borders. the next opportunity for us is to return to it when we provide the report and keep it constantly on our common agenda. i should like to thank members for their contributions.
commission. – mr president, i should like to point out to mr davies that yes, we have proposed that this should be used for the water initiative which covers what i said: both water and sanitation projects. we concentrate on africa and it covers the whole range, from big plans for big rivers in africa down to grassroots projects such as drilling new wells or building sanitation facilities. we have presented the idea that the water fund should be used for this purpose, and that edf money should be earmarked for that water fund. normally, funds are not earmarked in such a way. that has been a problem within the council. the council is not so fond of setting up a particular fund and a secretariat to work with the concrete implementation of this plan and the 'water for life' initiative. we hope, of course, that the council will be able to overcome these problems and the obstacles it sees, but that is the situation in which we find ourselves at present.
- thank you, commissioner. i have received a motion for a resolution tabled on the basis of rule 42 (5) of the rules of procedure to close the debate. see minutes of the sitting. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the next item is the report (doc. (the sitting was closed at 11.50 p.m.)
- ladies and gentlemen, before we begin our work, i would like to welcome the former european ombudsman, mr söderman, who is attending this sitting from the official gallery. (applause) i would like to take this opportunity to thank him for the commitment, the seriousness and the professionalism he has shown during his years as european ombudsman. i am sure that his example will be followed by the new ombudsman, mr diamandouros, to whom i extend my warmest greetings.
- the next item is the report (a5-0229/2003) by mr stockton, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the 2002 annual report of the european ombudsman (c5-0271/2003 - 2003/2068 (ini)). i give the floor to the european ombudsman, mr diamandouros.
- mr söderman, that is a compliment - these words about a sense of humour - which, coming from a briton, takes on a special value.
the commission (es) mr president, mr ombudsman, mr soderman, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is at a crucial juncture, since it concerns a report of activities drawn up and presented by the previous ombudsman, since mr diamandouros took up his duties in april 2003. the commission had already had the opportunity to meet the new ombudsman at the beginning of april and to congratulate him on his election and to wish him the best cooperation and collaboration and success in his work. among other things, because your predecessor has set the bar too high. when you're held to a very high standard, it requires extra effort, but i'm sure mr. diamandouros will rise to the challenge. in the previous debate on the ombudsman's activities in 2001, the commission also had the opportunity to congratulate mr soderman, this time for his pioneering role in the establishment of the european mediation system, and i have no doubt that we will continue to pursue this capacity, this initiative and this drive with mr diamandouros. as its rapporteur, the commission can only welcome the establishment of the national and regional ombudsman networks, the improvements in the rapid handling of complaints, the role played in the convention and the active preparation for enlargement by the ombudsman. as regards the management of complaint files, the commission welcomes the parliament's decision that in many cases the european authorities took the appropriate steps to find a solution as soon as they became aware of the problem in question and, in other cases, a mutually agreed solution was reached. the commission has always endeavoured to cooperate fully with the ombudsman in the day-to-day management of individual complaints, in the interests of citizens, which is why we are here. it is true, however, that sometimes there are differences of opinion. but it's logical, and there's always an open and constructive discussion. the commission is working on the code of good administrative behaviour, to which the rapporteur, lord stockton, has clearly referred - and i thank him for his very positive work - but we must calculate the time well. the commission's code, which corresponds in substance and in its entirety to what we discussed and talked about with mr soderman at the time, and which parliament accepted, came into force in november 2001. the first implementation report has been drawn up and not enough time has passed to give a complete picture of how the current regulation works and therefore of possible improvements. there is also a second point. if the second implementation report is being prepared for all the institutions - a report which should enable a common approach to be adopted by all of them - it should be remembered that we are currently in the midst of an open intergovernmental conference. if the text adopted by the convention on this point is adopted by the intergovernmental conference, we could have a legal basis for launching the initiative for a code common to all the institutions, in a codecision procedure with the full participation of this parliament, whereas for the present situation - which i remind you is based on article 308 of the treaty - there is nothing more than a simple opinion of the european parliament and, moreover, unanimity. in this sense, it would be important to see the final outcome of the intergovernmental conference before taking definitive steps on this issue. as regards access to documents in infringement proceedings, it should be borne in mind that the infringement procedure is an essential tool at the commission's disposal, the purpose of which is to enforce community law. it is essential that the commission be able to carry out its investigations and dialogue with the states with complete autonomy. it is necessary to leave it all the room for manoeuvre necessary for the exercise of this power. it is therefore a question of balancing the requirements of transparency with the necessary confidentiality of the dialogue between the commission and the member states. the court's case-law has also provided a legal framework for the matter, which cannot be ignored. however, for closed infringement procedures, the commission has revised its practice and documents can in principle be accessed in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1049/2001. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to reiterate my thanks to the rapporteur, lord stockton, to congratulate him publicly, to give him all the encouragement and to assure him of the support of the commission for the new ombudsman, mr diamandouros, as we did for his predecessor, but i cannot conclude my speech without saying something which i think is fair. mr diamandouros has just said that the main purpose of the ombudsman is to help strengthen democratic life in the union by promoting the rule of law, good administration and respect for human rights. in this respect, we should all thank mr soderman for his work and his actions over the years, because, as head of the ombudsman's institution, he has worked and achieved this improvement and this strengthening of the rule of law, good administration and respect for human rights throughout the european union and even in the new candidate countries, which will soon also be members of our union. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too join in thanking mr jacob söderman for playing the role of ombudsman when it was being set up and then for building it up, brick by brick. i would like to welcome the new ombudsman who is taking over this most precious legacy. as the commissioner rightly said, mrs de palacio, the bar has been set high, so at this point we must continue to raise the legal, cultural and, above all, awareness-raising level of the ombudsman. i must say that we have seen evidence of this widespread awareness when, on the occasion of the election of the new ombudsman, a great many candidates put themselves forward for the european parliament. parliament then chose mr diamandouros, to whom we give our full support in his efforts to build up and strengthen the role of the ombudsman. this is a role we must certainly spread throughout the member states. in my country, as in many other member states, there is no national mediator, but there is one in many other countries, including those in the process of accession. we therefore also support the initiative of the forum, proposed by the european ombudsman and referred to by the rapporteur, mr stockton. this forum must be open to all levels - local, regional and national - and must be able to provide a great opportunity for communication and exchange of views for the functioning of this institution. i am very pleased that the ombudsman has also made another proposal, namely the restructuring of a non-judicial procedure within his office, also to give substance and substance to the relationship between the institutions and citizens. today - and i will say this again later, because i am speaking three times today - we must strengthen the institutions which defend and protect the rights of citizens. i believe that the ombudsman, mr diamandouros, can do this, thanks to his willingness and his previous experience as a national mediator. i would therefore like to express our thanks to him and our support for his future work.
ombudsman. – mr president, i would like to respond very briefly. let me begin by thanking the commissioner, the chairman of the committee on petitions and the members of this house for their remarks, and particularly for their very warm words for jacob söderman and for the office that he built up and left behind. let me very quickly say, in reply to lord stockton, that the ombudsman has always extended invitations to members, and has always had series of meetings with national ombudsmen. we had a meeting in athens in april 2003, and we will be having another meeting of national ombudsmen in the hague in 2005. so there are regular meetings being held on a biennial basis. at the athens meeting the chairman of the petitions committee, mr gemelli, was invited and attended and made a very valuable contribution. we intend to continue this pattern in the future as well. i also agree that it is vital that individuals feel there is someone going in to bat for them and we intend to do so and will continue to do so, as we have done in the past. with respect to the commissioner's remarks, i would like to thank her for her kind words. in my position as ombudsman i am very eager to work closely with the commission in trying to promote the eventual adoption of what i would call 'a european administrative law'. i appreciate the fact that this has to be done in time so that what will come out will be applicable and will be best practice. i would urge the commission to do this as quickly as possible. certainly the igc is important; we can start doing a number of things in preparation for that, so we can complete this task which would be a very welcome one. it would also complete the whole process of creating uniform administrative law as early as possible. i thank mr gemelli again for his remarks from which i retain the need for cooperation at all levels. it is very much my intention to work with people at the regional and local level. i have already been to mr gemelli's home country, i have also met with the original ombudsman and petitions committee of the federal republic of germany. i have also been in spain during the past week. therefore, i have already visited three of the six countries in which there are a large number of regional and local ombudsmen, and i intend to continue to do so. i also very much welcome mr gemelli's strong endorsement of the idea that the igc might deem it advisable to include in part iii of the draft constitution an explicit recognition of non-judicial means of redress to complement the judicial means which, of course, are already explicitly recognised in that particular document. let me also say with respect to the very important point that mrs thors made – and i would like to thank her again for her remarks – that i agree there is a legal vacuum and it needs to be examined. i would very much hope to be able to work with the petitions committee to improve this. the statute also needs to be looked at again after the igc and i will ensure that this is done. i am always on the lookout for areas where the ombudsman may take initiatives to defend the rights of citizens. i also wish to take a judicious approach in this kind of matter; i particularly do not wish to compete with parliament when it comes to issues which pertain to its own political competence which ought to be left to the house itself to decide. leaving that aside, i am very eager to work with parliament in taking initiatives designed to strengthen the rights of citizens throughout the union. thank you very much for these suggestions. (applause)
- thank you, mr ombudsman. - thank you very much. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0239/2003) by mrs gonzález álvarez, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the proceedings of the committee on petitions during the parliamentary year 2002-03 [2003/2069 (ini) ].
chairman of the committee on petitions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first of all like to thank and congratulate mrs laura gonzález álvarez, who drew up this report, for all the work she has done for the committee on petitions and for the great human impact she has had on all her colleagues and on me personally in working for the committee on petitions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i also greet the commissioner, mrs loyola de palacio, and i extend my greetings to the whole commission, because relations between officials of the european commission and the committee on petitions have gradually become more normal, more regular, thanks to a gradual understanding of the problems of the european commission by the members of the committee on petitions and the abandonment of bureaucratic language by officials who have taken up the problems raised by citizens. this is a testimony to the growth of the institution of petitioning, the growth of the awareness of citizens in accessing this institution to report problems, that is to say the growth of awareness of european citizenship and the european dimension, which is gradually permeating european citizens. the statistics and data provided by mrs gonzález álvarez show that the number of petitions, as well as the number of those who have signed them, has increased enormously. this increase in the number of petitions and signatures is precisely the measure by which this european parliament and these european institutions are giving citizens ever greater guarantees with regard to their problems. the citizen is a tiny being compared to the gigantic institutions and globalization. i think it is absolutely necessary to implement the petition, the institution of the ombudsman and everything that can help to increase the stature of the citizen in the face of the giganticness that we are creating and are continuing to create. we have also carried out a mission to italy - the country currently holding the presidency - to ask, also within the framework of the entire programme of the european presidency, that consideration be given to strengthening this institution. we met with minister buttiglione and undersecretaries caldoro and nucara, with the vice-president of the public chamber, mr fiori, but above all with the four presidents of the authority who, in a sense, replace a national mediator, namely professor rasi for privacy, professor ranci for energy, professor tesauro for competition and professor cheli for communication. we asked them to care more about the fate of the citizen in their areas of competence than about resolving disputes between companies and between powers. in fact, many times in these great institutions it has been distracted from the task of settling conflicts within the powers. we must instead face a problem that is bigger than the conflict between powers and that is to ensure that these institutions are truly representative of the citizens. the fact that the mandate given by the citizen has been respected must therefore always be checked, and this will only be possible if we succeed in strengthening the role of these institutions for the protection of the citizen. i would like to add very briefly that as the committee on petitions we must create an organisational system within this parliament to interact with the other committees, and this will probably be done through parliament's rules of procedure. we must also never have conflicts of competence but rather create synergies and collaborations. as regards own-initiative reports, i would like to say briefly that we may have to amend the rules of procedure again, because own-initiative reports decided by the conference of committee chairmen must certainly reach the house, having already been followed up at committee level with the appointment of rapporteurs, the drafting of the report, etc., and they cannot be blocked by any body. if there is to be a filter, i think it should be applied when considering requests for such reports. the third and final point concerns the restructuring of the committee on petitions. i'm not for the nominalisms. if the committee on petitions is not to remain as it is but is to be occupied with other matters, it is absolutely necessary to provide for a restructuring of its secretariat, otherwise this will not be possible. if this secretariat were to remain, with this structure, the committee on petitions would be able to do nothing else.
- naturally, mrs aaltonen, all points of view are understandable, according to the example given. if you had been present in this house when a very important 'national' issue was being debated - a situation which is well known in france - you would have understood that the commission is quite concerned about it, as it is true that commissioner monti was addressed with expressions which are not usually used even in parliamentary debates. i say this to illustrate the fact that in certain cases the european commission pays much needed attention to national facts.
commission. – mr president, i should like to thank you for this new invitation to address the house and to provide you with the latest report on the progress of the commission’s investigations into this complex and very sensitive file. as many members of parliament will know, this is in fact the fourth time that i personally have had the opportunity to discuss the case with members of parliament, and in particular with members of the petitions committee. in addition to my own appearances before parliament, we have also kept parliament fully informed of developments by regular, written updates supplemented by oral presentations made by my staff at meetings of the petitions committee. furthermore, i have also responded to an extensive postbag from members on the subject. in this way the commission has sought to keep parliament fully informed to the greatest extent procedurally possible. given these extensive antecedents, i do not propose to go over the general background to this case. rather, i would propose to focus on developments since i last spoke to this parliament, which was at the petitions committee hearing on 22 january 2003. by letter dated 24 march 2003, the commission received a comprehensive reply from the uk authorities to the supplementary letter of formal notice sent by the commission on 23 january 2003 which expressed some residual concerns about the new regulatory regime for lloyd's established under the financial services and markets act 2000. after analysis of this reply, and further written and oral clarifications provided by the uk authorities, the commission services consider that the new arrangements are compatible with the requirements of directive 73/239/eec – that is to say the first non-life assurance directive, as amended. these requirements related primarily to the verification of solvency, the auditing arrangements, the adequacy of the administrative and accounting procedures and the internal control mechanisms. in order to respect the procedural rights of complainants, in the second half of july 2003 my services wrote to all complainants, as well as to petitioners who had not lodged a formal complaint, explaining the results of this preliminary analysis and indicating the intention of the services to propose that the commission should close the case. my services are now completing their analysis of the responses received from complainants before preparing a proposal for a final decision on the case by the college of commissioners. in accordance with parliament's wish, we shall be seeking to take this decision as quickly as possible, before the end of october 2003. most of the comments received related to the past situation, before the introduction of the fsma 2000. as i have already explained to this parliament and to complainants, the objective of infringement proceedings under community law is to ensure or restore the compatibility of national law with community law, not to rule on the past compatibility or incompatibility of the prior regime. that is a task – i say this in particular to mr perry – for national courts to address. from the beginning of our investigations into this complex and sensitive file, we have repeatedly made it clear to complainants that any action for damages must be undertaken before national courts. indeed, i understand that, currently, such an action has been instigated by a group of complainants before uk courts. therefore, in accordance with the relevant case-law of the court of justice, the task of the commission is to examine the compatibility of the new regime with the requirements of the insurance directives. during our investigations, access to the file has been a hotly-debated subject. from my opening comments i trust members will recognise that, throughout the conduct of its enquiries, the commission has always sought to keep parliament fully informed to the greatest extent possible. as the report by the petitions committee recognises, the commission is bound by point 1.5 of annex iii to the framework agreement between parliament and the commission. this provides that information on infringement procedures remains confidential until a final commission decision is made. clearly, after a final decision, the commission will make documents available, subject to any remaining confidentiality constraints. assuming a decision is taken by the college of commissioners to close the case, the commission will, in response to a formal request from parliament, provide file access in accordance with the framework agreement subject to the respect of any confidentiality requirements imposed by the uk on documents which it has prepared. furthermore, general public access to the file will be granted in accordance with the terms of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001. lastly, i would like briefly to touch upon an issue which, in the light of the extensive contacts we have enjoyed with parliament, i had hoped would not be necessary. there are those who imply that, in the conduct of its enquiries, the commission has exposed itself to accusations of maladministration and unnecessary delay. let me be clear. despite the complexity and sensitivity of the case and the considerable volume of correspondence received, the commission has always sought to carry out its investigations as rapidly as possible, consistent with due process and thorough investigation, while subject to real constraints on resources. petition 318/2000 runs to seven lever-arch a4 files. the commission has carefully examined complaints and entered into substantial and sustained communication with complainants. two press releases were issued and sent to all complainants and petitioners. furthermore, as i have just said, in accordance with the procedural safeguards for complainants, the commission services have written to all complainants informing them of the results of the commission's preliminary analysis and seeking their comments. finally, an allegation of commission maladministration has recently been examined by mr diamandouros, the european ombudsman, and rejected by him. in particular, may i respectfully remind parliament that mr. diamandouros specifically considered allegations of commission maladministration regarding access to files and examination of the current regulatory regime, as opposed to the past, pre-fsma 2000 regime. in both cases mr diamandouros found no maladministration. i have spoken somewhat longer than i would have preferred but, given the importance of the case and the tragic stories that surround it, i wanted to be crystal clear in my statement to this parliament. in closing, let me again assure you, president, of the willingness of the commission to cooperate fully with parliament. this cooperation is, however, always subject to the legal constraints imposed on the commission. as on previous occasions, i would be very happy to try and answer any further questions you might have.
mr president, i too would like to thank the commissioner, to whom i have nothing to ask. i would just like to take this back to when i spoke of the petitions and the gigantism that globalization brings us, and i referred to a landmark case: the citizen versus the giant. there is a huge disproportion between the citizen and the giant. at this point parliament must ask itself what it can do to protect the rights of citizens. this is a case which mr perry has well highlighted by referring to a specific case which concerns a great many citizens who have gone bankrupt. there are a lot of trials going on in the united states, some in europe, many in britain. how can one not wonder what the development and solution of this case may be? how can we not ask this parliament, how can we not ask ourselves what we have to do to solve this case? lloyd's is a great institution, it has an unbroken world credibility, but obviously at a particular moment something happened, there was some mistake, because otherwise there would not have been this proliferation of cases reported by citizens. so we are calling for the establishment of a committee of inquiry or opposing it, but this is not a problem that should be resolved behind closed doors, not least because we do not want to have any trial, not least because we are not authorized to have any trial, not least because we do not want to have any counterparts. we just want to answer a question from the public, because that's our mandate: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the financial impact of the single market. i want to understand why there is a case. and if the commission's reply, when it arrives, is not exhaustive, i can only do so by an inquiry which we can carry out with great serenity, to find out what was the knot, the hole, the mesh through which this great error passed, which has caused so much damage.
mr president, the oral amendment concerns the replacement of almost all of paragraph 22. the whole of part one would be replaced by the following: 'the european parliament undertakes to organise, in early 2004, in cooperation with the interparliamentary union, a new parliamentary conference on the world trade organisation, with the aim of discussing ...'. the rest would remain unchanged. i think this text is clearer and i hope that all colleagues will accept it.
mr president, before i turn to the cashman report, i should like to point out that we have received an erratum, which is not an erratum at all. this is a correction to the cashman report in respect of parliament's support for action t-84/03 against the council on grounds of transparency. the erratum speaks of 'examining the advisability' of parliament's participation, whereas the original text 'decides to support' such participation. we do not understand where this erratum comes from, since we believe the original text to be true.
in writing. - (it) as regards the request of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to the committee on legal affairs and the internal market to 'support the participation of the european parliament' in the action t-84/03 against the council, the legal service, with the agreement of the political authorities of the european parliament, put to the vote a text to 'examine the participation of the european parliament' by means of an erratum. the action, which i myself have brought against the council, concerns transparency issues, particularly with regard to the secrecy of legal opinions, and concerns not only the rights of citizens to access documents in order to monitor democratically the functioning of the institutions, but also that of meps. the eighth ambush of the legal service, with the connivance of the political authorities of the european parliament, has upset the decisions taken by a parliamentary committee and which were to be put to the vote of the assembly. the legal service of the european institutions is a corporation which enjoys the widest possible freedom of action and whose initiatives are not subject to any control. impunity for the legal service is detrimental to the rights of the institutions, parliament, members and citizens. as for the actions of the political authorities in parliament, they are typical of a group of friends seeking to protect themselves.
mr president, as you know, two days ago in africa, in somalia, an italian missionary, annalena tonelli, who had devoted her life to caring for the sick for thirty years, was brutally murdered, to the applause and support of the entire population and of the islamic community itself. this barbaric murder has made a great impression in my country, precisely because of the extraordinary humanitarian activity of the victim. i would like to ask you, mr president, if you think it appropriate to convey to the family, to the italian institutions, the condolences of our house too on this tragic, unexpected death.
mr president, the relationship between the free market and the professions is not a simple and natural one - that is also clear from the words of commissioner monti - and you know that in my committee, together with mr lehne, mr zappalà and other colleagues, we have been working on a directive on professional qualifications for over a year and so we are well aware of the typification and the exceptional nature of the problem of the professions. the freelancer offers a service independently, which requires a very high level of knowledge, which is difficult to assess. for this reason, professional work is governed by an ethic which oversees the relationships between professionals and between professionals and the client, between the professional and society as a whole. the behaviour of the professional responds to an ethics which corresponds to precise duties, to the needs of the service which the professional himself determines, and therefore the ethics represents the premise with respect to the rules, as a way of interpreting and applying. an american sociologist, fredson, in his writings shows that the system of professions responds to the work ethic, which must find the right balance and here i agree with commissioner monti with respect to profit and the execution of orders, typical instead of the market and bureaucracy: so there is an exception. the maintenance of this delicate and difficult balance requires a special status for the selfemployed, not in his own interest but in the interest of the community. article 5 of the charter of rights provides for freedom of profession, that is to say the right to pursue a profession freely chosen and accepted. and professional freedom is different from freedom to do business. as the treaty states, the general interest mission of the professions can also justify restrictions, commissioner monti, on the competition rules. legislative provisions and ethical rules may therefore derogate from competition law in particular cases: in the case of professional rates, which may also be compulsory in comparison with those fixed by the state; in the case of the exercise of the profession in an integrated form; in the case of advertising, where the codes of ethics may exclude the possibility of expressing judgments about a colleague among the various professions; in the case of membership of social security institutions; the obligation to join pension funds, which is allowed; in the case of exclusivity in favour of certain regulated professions. in conclusion, mr president, rules which are necessary in the specific context of each profession to ensure the impartiality, competence, integrity and responsibility of the means of the profession itself are not considered to restrict competition. the activities of the professions must therefore ensure that the professional and his product, the service he provides, contribute to providing useful solutions to the challenges we are facing, in order to protect the general interest of the community. the standards which are established by the professional categories under their responsibility, in order to guarantee the quality of services, ensure that the standards themselves are observed in accordance with the canons of professionalism and professional ethics. in this sense i believe - and this is also clear from the words of commissioner monti - that in this way, and only because of the fragile balance between profit and ethics that we have to determine, there is a correct relationship between free markets, competition, rules and ethics in general.
mr president, commissioner, whenever liberalisation is called for, whenever it is called a necessity or when liberalisation is pursued, the question of specificity is put to those who propose liberalisation. when we talk about liberalizing a sector which provides a service to the public, we say that this sector has its own specific features which must be taken into account and that the market rules which should apply to other economic and industrial sectors cannot apply to this sector. the same applies to the professions: every profession has its own specificity. but the liberal professions, the liberal professions have the characteristic in europe, and even in some countries such as italy, of being the least free of all. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fact that today in europe the free professions - the so-called free professions - are in fact based on closed corporations which exercise a collective monopoly by defending positions of income, creating obstacles for young people who want to take up those professions. i'll give you an example of the order of journalists. in italy, a french journalist, who claims to have extensive professional experience, recently came to italy his publishing house bought newspapers in italy and was appointed editor of one of these newspapers: the professional order of journalists rebelled and got that person, a frenchman, not to carry out the same activity in italy. the liberalisation of professional services, as called for by the italian antitrust authority, is necessary to help make many european industrial sectors more competitive, those that rely more on having competence and a competitive capacity on international markets. the october conference is welcome, provided that it is clear that the balance in europe today is achieved if the monopolistic, corporate power of the professional orders is overcome.
mr president, i must first of all make two points: i am the rapporteur on behalf of parliament on the proposal for a directive referred to by commissioner monti. another question: the commission's initiative to introduce a series of research projects, statistical data on fares or behavioural methodologies has created a great deal of alarm in europe, particularly in my own country. let 's talk about professions . now, i think we all need to think about what a profession is and what its impact is on the population. professionals in general - apart from several million in europe - have daily contact with almost the entire world population; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's citizens are not exposed to the risks of the single market. there's a lot of confusion, generally, among professionals: the intellectual professions are very different from the professions in general. as regards competition: i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, when we talk about competition we cannot think in terms of price but we should think in terms of quality. and quality is something else, because it is quality that ensures health, freedom and safety. this does not mean, in my view, that the problem of competition should be neglected. we have to see what kind of competition we are talking about because if we want to compare two objects that are the product of a craft activity with two surgeries on the chest, i think that is beyond any possible imagination. in conclusion, mr president, i do not agree with the idea of making a bundle of all the grass, as they say in italy: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. a dysfunction, bad legislation which often makes orders move badly cannot be blamed as a need to cancel the orders themselves.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, in a few days' time there will be a discussion in brussels about the relaunch of the economy, and i fear that it will end up in a debate about the stability pact, whether it is a smart pact or not, a debate between states which demand to be able to spend more and to be able to exceed the deficit commitments under the pact. i am afraid that there will not be a discussion - again, unfortunately - of what the european union and the european institutions could do to support, to contribute to the economic growth of the union. mr president of the commission, a little over a year ago you commissioned a group of high-level experts to draw up a study, which is an agenda for an economically growing europe. this study has given very rigorous, very serious, very important indications of what the european union could do to contribute to growth, by reorienting first of all its own internal budget, that of the european institutions: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, this group of experts - the committee chaired by andré sapir - has made a very clear statement: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the indication is precise: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. with the resources that would be freed up by revising the agricultural policy, by revising the agricultural protectionism that is so bad for europe's image abroad, we could help, thanks also to the leverage effect, to give a formidable boost to economic research, to technological innovation, which deserves to be financed with economies of scale, which only brussels can guarantee. the same resources could also be used to give impetus to the famous european networks to better connect the markets. all this could be done, but it is not done. i believe that the european union must first of all question its budget and its agricultural policy, otherwise it will be increasingly useless to talk so pompously about the lisbon objectives. one final point, mr president. we 'll discuss immigration . well, i hope that it sends a strong signal to the people of europe that immigrants are and can be a resource for economic growth, too, and not a problem.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, the next meeting will first of all have to take stock of the work of the intergovernmental conference which opened last saturday in rome. the result, in my view, is overall positive: the document approved is a hopeful sign after the pessimistic forecasts of christmas eve. i am personally optimistic, having also experienced the difficulties, the problems and the difficulties of the convention; i am absolutely convinced that no one will take the responsibility for the failure of two years of work, no one will take the political responsibility for not giving europe the constitution that 450 million citizens expect. of course, on the text of the constitution no compromise to the downside must be made; of course, minor corrections will have to be made, but the convention must remain in force. what corrections can be made? i believe that the majority voting areas should be extended: unanimity is a block, a pillar of concrete that blocks the union's progress. i am also convinced that a compromise can be found on the number of commissioners: i believe that, from the outset, the countries that will be part of the union from 2004 onwards should be represented. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. i am of course absolutely convinced that the reference to the judeo-christian roots should be explicitly included in the preamble to the constitution. i would also like to make a positive assessment of the italian presidency. a commitment was made in the strasbourg chamber to ensure that the european parliament was present at the intergovernmental conference: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i am convinced that parliament will be able to continue to make a constructive contribution to the debate. the second theme, mr president, is that of economic recovery. yesterday, and we can only be pleased, ecofin took the first step towards the creation of the large networks: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in choosing priorities, mr president-in-office, i believe that we must look with a certain care to a europe that goes from west to east, but also to a europe that looks from north to south. the recovery of the economy must be achieved by continuing the lisbon process: the increase in the retirement age is a necessary reform, it is the need to give an answer to our children to allow us to have a system that guarantees their future in ten, twenty, thirty, forty years. i also agree with the president of the commission on the subject of research: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the last issue, immigration, cannot be a national issue. my country has seven thousand kilometers of coastline: it is not only the border of italy, but the border of europe to the south. it is therefore clear that the union must assume not only the organisational burden of police action but also the economic responsibility for it.
mr president, after many years of substantially underestimating the problem posed by the risks of illegal immigration, the european institutions now finally, albeit belatedly, seem to be beginning to identify a line of positive consistency in starting to make the policy mix designed to deal with and counteract the challenge of illegal immigration more effective and balanced. the council then - this is what the northern league movement is asking - must go ahead, also on the effective impulse of the italian presidency. on these very issues we were pleased to hear a clear and precise report by mr antonione, the italian presidency's representative, on the lines emerging from the work and discussions of the gai council: a strong proposal to set up an agency for border control, especially maritime border control. mr tajani has rightly pointed out the importance of the 7,000 km of frontiers in our country, at the southern edge of europe. and then there is the quota policy, and hence integration, which must be done on the subject of work and certainly not with demagogic proposals that yield to goodwill, such as the one, formulated by mr fini, to give the vote to non-community citizens: the commission's proposal is a wrong one, an inappropriate one, a distorted one, which goes in a different direction from the serious and concrete commitment - the direction in which the european institutions are going - to work to combat illegality.
the rapporteur. mr president, i have asked for my speech to be divided into two parts: i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. i now turn to the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making. it is an agreement which was the result of a long, hard negotiation in which we all asked ourselves - parliament, the commission and the council, but above all we ourselves - whether it was not better to simply let it go, given the objective difficulty of discerning the real advantages compared to the present situation. i would first of all like to thank mr gargani, mr swoboda and mr clegg, with whom we were able to reach a good agreement, and the technical group which negotiated with us, because in the end a positive result was achieved. that is why i am here asking this parliament to support this agreement, because i believe that some small, tentative positive result has been achieved. i should like to focus on two issues which seem to me particularly relevant: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am referring in particular to the so-called voluntary agreements. recent experience in the field of road safety, of co2 in cars, shows us that the risks of not achieving the objectives, in terms of effectiveness and generality of application, that a normal law could have achieved with these voluntary agreements, are absolutely real. it is precisely to respond to this potential danger that we have been heavily involved in these difficult negotiations, which also included many other elements. as the honourable member will see, if he reads the text, there are also many blah blahs, but at least on these issues of self-regulation and co-regulation they have achieved some small results. but we must admit defeat. we have not been able to obtain from the commission the right of call back, that is to say the right to suspend the application of a voluntary agreement if we do not like it. it is a matter of great dissatisfaction to us because it is the commission - and this must be said - which has not wanted to give in on this point. we have simply obtained a political willingness on the part of the commission to take account of a clear and strong opposition on the part of parliament. it will therefore be for parliament to be able to organise, if it deems it necessary, such opposition to the voluntary act as to oblige the commission itself to withdraw it. one last thing, mr. president: we see in the difficulty of the commission and the council to go further in this area the same difficulty we found in the negotiations on comitology, which we hope has been finally overcome by the agreements reached in the convention.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the interinstitutional agreement we are talking about is the result of negotiations conducted by the high-level working party composed of representatives of the european parliament, the commission and the presidency of the council of ministers. i think that i, along with my colleagues swoboda, clegg and frassoni, should personally thank the high-level technicians who have helped us with our work, but i would certainly like to attribute the achievement to the political level: i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the question of the future of the community. we have acted in accordance with the mandate given us by the conference of presidents of the political groups on 4 july, and i think i can say that we have scrupulously adhered to that directive and to that will which we have often verified with the president of the european parliament in personal meetings and in delegation meetings. the objectives set out in the mandate concerned adequate safeguards with regard to parliament's rights as a legislative authority, full transparency in the legislative process, and the choice of innovative solutions to improve the efficiency and accountability of the legislative political process. in short, the european parliament's aim was to strengthen the democratic legitimacy and quality of community legislation which is something i believe everyone cares about. in parallel with the negotiations, the european commission adopted a number of documents on simplification and improvement of legislation, on which our committee gave its opinion by approving the report by mr medina ortega, which you have just heard. the draft interinstitutional agreement is the possible fulfilment both of the mandate of the conference of presidents and of the guidelines contained in mr ortega's report. moreover, while the treaty was the reference was obviously our reference is in line with the draft constitutional treaty which was adopted by the convention and which is being discussed in the igc. i would like to say very briefly that there are important points that we have resolved: the legislative programming; coordination between the institutions for legislative work; the council shall inform parliament of the draft strategic programme, not only on an annual basis but also on a multiannual basis; the council's presence in committee - in the chamber of course, but also in committee - is what i believe is important for the dialectic of parliament's work. the commission undertakes to participate regularly in the work of the committees, preferably at ministerial level but in any event at the highest appropriate and responsible level. as regards transparency, the importance of informing citizens about the legislative process is confirmed, as the convention has also transposed to some extent; the commission's right of initiative - i want to make this clear to parliament - cannot be extended to the choice of the form of the act. the wording of article 12 provides that the commission shall take account of information received from the other institutions; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that we have made great progress in this respect, as well as in self-regulation, control, and the possibility for economic operators and the social partners to adopt guidelines in this respect. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new rules. i cannot say more, but i would like to say in conclusion that the agreement could not affect the future role of the european parliament, as president cox has warned us on many occasions. not only have we not compromised this, but i believe we have strengthened the european parliament and it is an important fact that it remains in this legislature as a legislative authority in the interinstitutional agreement.
the rapporteur. mr president, i asked to speak again at the end of the debate because i was very interested in hearing what the council and the commission had to say. i have now listened to them, and their speeches have confirmed to me that if we want this agreement not to remain a dead letter, it will depend entirely on the european parliament's ability to enforce it and to incorporate it into the practice of our institution. during this debate, as during the negotiations, we have found a certain rigidity in the need to ensure that, as regards measures alternative to legislation, there must be for the legislator, and in particular for the european parliament, the possibility of assessing their operation and, if necessary, of rejecting them. mr mccarthy, the problem is not the cultural difference, which can certainly exist between us with respect to voluntary agreement; the problem is that when voluntary agreements do not work, we as the legislature must be able to take them back, and this is unfortunately partly possible, but only if we fight hard to get it. a brief word, mr president, on the question of impact assessment. mr clegg, who was part of our negotiating team, is right: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i repeat, impact assessment remains a highly political issue, and we were also in danger of losing some of our prerogatives in the negotiations by tying ourselves too tightly to an obligation to carry out impact assessments which we are not technically able to assume. i also believe that the commission's position on this matter is extremely variable. in fact, some subjects are evaluated and are considered important. on others, it is completely abandoned. in this connection, i would like to take the example of the famous van miert list on transeuropean networks, where the commission completely refused to make any impact assessment of this important act. i repeat: impact assessment remains a project that this interinstitutional agreement has not been able to conclude; but i think we all need to be aware of that and be responsible for the future.
the rapporteur. mr president, the green paper presented by commissioner busquin, which parliament particularly welcomed, reiterated the strategic importance of space policy for the independence, security and economic growth of a europe that wants to remain at the forefront of scientific research and technological innovation. in recent months, a turning point has been reached with the constituent convention, which has recognised a specific role for space policy, thus providing a legal basis for community programmes and consolidating the strategy launched with the extraordinary success of the galileo project. however, we are aware that the commission has also given a concrete response to the unprecedented crisis which has hit the space sector, particularly launchers, affecting the activities of many industries and accentuating distortions on the world market. the space asset is crucial for the concentration of expertise, research and technologies that characterise the development of the knowledge economy. it is a resource that cannot be wasted and the commission and the esa council have shown themselves to be fully aware of this. the european parliament's report stresses the role of esa and the national agencies and welcomes the framework agreement, which the european community and esa have signed and which parliament had strongly urged. this framework agreement confirms esa's irreplaceable role in organising research and technological and industrial supply. this role needs to be clarified in the presence of a european space programme which also redefines the commission's responsibilities in relation to public demand and new initiatives requiring political representativeness and specific institutional competence. the european union's role as a major player on the international scene, involving all the countries of the union, does not exclude the need for international cooperation: the european union is also committed to the development of a european space policy, a cooperation which concerns primarily the united states - think of the international space station - but which also covers other countries, from russia to japan to china itself. however, we must be aware that the quality of international agreements - especially when it comes to space - depends on the quality of scientific, industrial and even financial contributions. europe's ambitions must be supported by public resources, as is the case throughout the world, and by a more active organisation of common policies, from agriculture to telecommunications, from the environment to transport. private initiative needs to be encouraged, as is the case with galileo, but it should be noted that the goal of doubling the space budget in ten years would not close the gap with the united states, but would still be halfway there. space science has played a pioneering role. the quality of human resources and basic research therefore deserve greater attention. the future of european space policy depends on this attention. for these reasons, we believe that the next research framework programme should devote more financial resources to the space sector, and in this context guarantee a share for small and mediumsized enterprises, which are becoming the indispensable support for new innovative enterprises. the last consideration concerns the convention's orientation towards an armaments agency open to all member states, under the structured cooperation method. this approach can contribute to the implementation of the industrial and technological asset. it is not a question - and this must be made clear - of militarizing space, but rather of recognizing that we are discussing dual activities, both civilian and military, and together a strategy for european security which cannot be abandoned to the temptations of american unilateralism. to avoid misunderstandings, the report refers to the un resolution on preventing an arms race in space and to the convention itself, which aims to promote peace and contribute to the security and sustainable development of the earth. we are now awaiting the white paper, after having discussed the green paper, and this expectation is based on the positive assessment we have expressed so far, and it is, in our view, also the expectation of the world of science and of the world of european industry.
- thank you very much, commissioner busquin. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the commission mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last december the commission adopted a plan to bring about a major reform of the merger control system. the reform is the result of a review process which started in 2000 and which is based on a new draft regulation, which i hope the council will adopt soon so that it can enter into force in time for the next enlargement. the reform is designed to leave the merits of the current system intact. what we are proposing is a series of significant improvements to the current system, aimed above all at further improving the system in terms of transparency and consistency of merger control. at the same time, beyond the regulation, we are improving the commission's decision-making process, making our investigations of proposed mergers more accurate, more targeted and better supported by sound economic analysis, and taking full account of the rights of the parties to the concentration and of third parties; we are also aware that the court of first instance requires a high standard of proof from the commission. this has obvious consequences for the way we work. the merger control reform package consists of a proposal for a new community merger regulation and a draft notice containing guidelines on the assessment of horizontal mergers. in addition to the preparation of these documents, the last few months have seen the adoption of many measures concerning the staff and internal organisation of the directorate-general for competition, in particular the introduction of a new figure - the chief competition economist - and of arrangements such as peer review panels to have greater freshness of verification in the course of analyses. the proposal for a new merger regulation has three main features: first, clarification of the substantive criterion for assessing the possible effects of concentrations on competition; secondly, questions of jurisdiction, where we propose to streamline the system of referrals between the commission and the member states; thirdly and lastly, a number of procedural changes are proposed to give a little more flexibility in the timing of investigations and notifications of concentrations, and in aligning the powers of inquiry provided for in the merger regulation with those laid down in regulation no 1/2003 which, as you know, concerns the application of articles 81 and 82 of the treaty.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr commissioner, over the last three years the commission has embarked on a thorough review of the community antitrust system. as you have said, commissioner, the proposal for a new regulation on mergers between undertakings which we are examining today is one of the most important steps in this process. the regulation in question the previous one has become increasingly central to the competition policy of the european union, and has had important merits in offering merger companies a one-stop-shop perspective and predetermined timelines. however, the increasing integration of markets and the consequent increase in the number and importance of merger cases examined by the commission have brought the existing rules to a critical point, as evidenced by the recent judgments of the court of justice which rejected certain commission decisions, to which you, mr commissioner, also referred. hence the need to reform the existing rules, to which the commission has been quick to respond. the three crucial points - as you said, commissioner monti - in the commission proposal and also in the parliament's report concern the substantive criterion, the judicial aspects and the procedures. on the question of jurisdiction, the scope of the regulation and therefore the allocation of cases between the authorities of the member states, there is a need to solve the problem of multiple notifications, which will become even more burdensome for the companies involved after enlargement, which contrast multiple notifications with the one-stop-shop principle, which is what we all refer to. in this proposal the commission has abandoned both the possibility of intervening on thresholds, probably because of the complications this entailed, and the so-called "3+" principle, which was also present in the green paper and on which parliament had expressed itself in the berenguer fuster report, expressing a positive assessment. this positive assessment was reiterated by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, which defined a criterion of automaticity in the possibility of referral to the commission even at the pre-notification stage, when dealing with a notification in several countries. parliament therefore reiterated the line already taken in the debate on the green paper. as regards the principle, the substantive criterion has so far proved effective; but there was a lot of discussion. some people proposed that we should move to substantial lessening of competition, a principle used in the united states and some other member states. i had reacted to the commission's proposal to add a paragraph to article 2 which should have defined the dominance criterion better. i was proposing a reformulation, but the economic committee decided at this point to propose that the commission should leave things as they are, thus giving a positive value to the criterion and its effectiveness, which has been demonstrated so far. as regards the procedural aspects, i should like to say a few words about the powers of inquiry. as a committee we have proposed that some of the provisions in the proposal for a regulation be reduced, because we believe that a criterion of proportionality makes it absolutely unnecessary to level the powers of investigation provided for in the case of cartels with those provided for in the case of mergers, because they are completely different cases. the merger is business as usual and so we feel there should be no presumption of infringement. we believe that parliament should be firm on this, all the more so since the commission is quite legitimately proposing powers for itself. we believe that parliament should have a more assertive position on this. two points to conclude: first, the role of the worker. the debate showed the proposal and concern of some colleagues, particularly socialists, to take account of the possible employment impact of mergers, even making eligibility conditional on the preservation of jobs. we believe that this clause cannot be inserted here because it risks being in conflict with the logic of the regulation, which is to ensure a competitive single market, precisely in order to increase employment. the regulation already contains some rules on the issue of participation and information of workers; other european legislation provides for other rules on this very point. i do not think it is necessary to include these elements here, and i would ask my colleagues, and in particular mr berenguer fuster and mr van den burg, to consider: the fact that these amendments are rejected cannot affect the vote on the whole of the measure. i am also voting in favour of mr schmidt's amendment.
mr president, i did not really want to speak this morning; i wanted to use silence, the same one that israeli women have used since 1988, in silence, dressed in black, saying: enough with the israeli occupation. but i have too much love and respect for my president wurtz, who left the floor to me and my colleagues, and above all because the symbolism, perhaps, does not work here and then words must be used. i must say, mr solana, that i am frustrated, bitter but above all deeply indignant. outrage is a political category, it is not a humorous trait, and i am outraged because every day i feel enveloped in a spider's web where law, justice, freedom and truth are suffocated and die every day: the european union is not prepared to accept the death penalty. on the one hand - and it is not foolish or vain to repeat it - there is an army that is militarily occupying a country; on the other hand, there is the international legality that is constantly denied and that we now repeat like a litany. international law must be respected, but a resolution is not respected. now, i have no hesitation in calling hamas and jihad enemies, even though, by being nonviolent, i have destroyed the enemy category. it 's certainly guilty to send kids to kill each other and to kill; those who do this are responsible, i consider it a crime, but please, we must also get out of this slowness, this diplomacy that kills every day, that contributes to this crime. i feel responsible, together with you, all of you, for what is happening in that country, because it is not enough to invoke respect for international law. of course, it is good to go, and i also thank mr solana, and i thank mr moratinos very much, although i must say that during this period of the quartet's existence, there was in fact an absence of marc otte due to a blackmail by sharon, at the most delicate moment, when the road map was being discussed again. we were not there at that time, because we rightly recognize that sharon was legitimately elected. arafat was also legitimately elected, and arafat cannot be accused of representing all evil. he is not my leader - i am an - independent, autonomous, libertarian - but it must be said that arafat has been a prisoner for three years, and that is not secondary. arafat has been a prisoner for three years and he is not the one who can militarily control the area of jenin, where there are israeli tanks, bulldozers and soldiers. it's not him. he can do what the government of abu mazen tried to do and today with abu ala, to make a political agreement with all the forces, including hamas and jihad, the moderate wing, let's say the wing that accepts the truce, accepts the total ceasefire, but every time, it is not trivial to say it, you have to know that it is true, it is so, every time leaders are killed. this is not a minor point, but i thank poettering very much, i would not like him to feel embarrassed because the left loves him so much today, or because i am used to being cross-cutting in responding to problems. i found poettering's intervention extraordinary, precise and perfect, even on the wall, because commissioner monti, the wall, i think you should go and see it, the wall as poettering said separates, destroys, kills freedom, possibilities of communication. that is not the state between palestinians and israelis that we want to create, it is a state where palestinians and muslims communicate together. that wall is an obscenity, you can all see that, i saw it, i went to see it on saturday too. adudis cuts the whole village in half. the girls, described in haaretz, an israeli newspaper, by gideon levi who is an extraordinary journalist, tells how the girls to cross the road, they go through the concrete intersections and their thin bodies pass, but instead they do not pass their backpack and throw it on the other side. it's an obscenity that must be stopped. i am convinced that there is much that can be done, and i am also convinced that our parliament must take itself more seriously when it formulates and passes resolutions. i am tired of writing resolutions, mediating, resolutions must be implemented. we have said for a long time that the arms embargo must be applied, that the applicability of the association agreement must be verified, and above all we have decided on a high-level delegation from parliament. i think we have to do it and we have to continue on the roadmap and there is hope. i apologize, president cox, i apologize to everyone else, i didn't write and so i lost control of the time as well, but i want to say something. there is great hope in palestine and israel, there are those thousands of palestinians who resist every day and do not agree with the bombs and the bombings and those hundreds and thousands of israelis who are fantastic, like the two pilots who last week were ordered to bomb nablus and refused. they were on nablus, the boys heard, they came back, obviously they were written off. and extremely important, it is humanity that is growing and we must grow this humanity within ourselves, in others, between palestinians and israelis. (parliament adopted the resolution)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the cohn-bendit road map could be very suggestive if this parliament were not suffering from a great deal of strabismus. very often, especially on this israeli-palestinian issue, you see the problems on one side and you forget the problems on the other side. forgetting that, for example, the palestinian charter denies the existence of israel; forgetting that palestinian schoolbooks teach that israel does not exist and that its people do not exist and that it never existed and forgetting that in 1999 or 2000, the camp david attempt failed because of arafat's inability to negotiate, to accept a compromise that would perhaps have ensured a situation that was very different from today; we are also forgetting all the reasons for our indignation, and rightly so, because we demand more from israel, a democratic people, and we are also entitled to demand more from it than from peoples who are not democratic and whom we hope will become so. but there is no doubt that in view of what is happening, we cannot ignore the fact that it is in response to attacks which society would be unable to tolerate and which are the daily bread of israeli society. ladies and gentlemen, i therefore believe that if europe is failing in its role, if it is not able to play it, despite the efforts of our high representative, despite the efforts within the quartet, but if there is no doubt that europe is taking a step back and very often it is also doing so with some positive retrospective, as has happened in the last six months, when this process, this adherence to the roadmap was not entirely unanimous, it seemed to me, in the minds of many european governments, that perhaps they had some will to divide the front in order not to accept the american approach. if all this is true, then we europeans must also examine our consciences. if our views were more balanced, more pragmatic and more objective, we would not be seen by one of the parties as a non-determining factor in the solution of the israeli-palestinian conflict.
mr president, i am in favour of this postponement, but i would like to stress that this was a precedent, because a report was discussed in the house which had not yet been adapted to reality, and then referred back to committee for a vote. it seems to me to be a bizarre procedure, at least, which i hope will not be repeated.
mr president, our vote in favour of the solidarity fund to meet the needs of countries and regions affected by natural disasters is accompanied by two wishes and two recommendations. firstly, that the fund should be properly increased or at least indexed by the next financial year, 2004, as mr turchi promised to propose. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. a second wish: the establishment of the fund is a first concrete step, but it is not enough. it is not enough to think of financing countries affected by natural disasters, if one does not also think of a serious policy of forecasting and prevention. we believe that the time has come for the union to consider the creation of a european civil protection agency, with the task of coordinating and managing risk prevention and emergency management among the member states. recent and painful examples in europe show that disasters can also be of a supranational nature, and that one cannot rely on the generosity of volunteers or on the skills and resources of the affected state alone. europe must have the human, financial and other resources to respond quickly. it may be an ambitious goal, but it is not unattainable. after all, the right to security of every citizen, and not just the european citizen, is, i believe, physiological rather than constitutional. we therefore bring the matter to the attention of the commission and the european parliament, hoping that we will not remain the only proponents.
mr president, last friday in rome, a very serious event took place, which is detrimental to freedom of information within the european union: a magistrate has ordered the search and seizure of news material at the offices of a major newspaper. i speak as a journalist and i am addressing a president who is, in turn, a journalist. the police were at the newspaper for 13 hours, seized a lot of material, and the alleged offence is only that of defamation by the press. the italian judiciary's decision did not take account of the decisions of the council of ministers of the union and the court of strasbourg, which have repeatedly ruled in favour of the journalist's right not to reveal his sources. i would remind you of the council of the european union's recommendation r-2000/7 to the member states of 8 march 2000, and i also recall the famous goodwin judgment, in which the strasbourg court of justice gave legal grounds to the professional secrecy of journalists. i also refer to the most recent judgment, no 33400 of 15 july, which states that searches of the workplace to find out the sources of journalists constitute a serious breach of freedom of expression. the court also found that the objective of investigators to identify those responsible for leaks from courthouses is not a sufficient reason to justify the use of such methods. mr president, i have already put a question on the protection of freedom of information, not only in my country but in the european union as a whole. i would ask parliament to intervene in this matter.
mr president, in recent days 22 people have drowned off the sicilian island of lampedusa. they came from somalia, paid $1,200 each to come and die, trying to get to europe. since the beginning of the year, 7,000 refugees have landed on lampedusa, all fleeing from places of despair close to europe. it is a tragedy to which we risk offering only habituation and resignation. at the brussels summit some of europe's major countries showed their utter unwillingness to consider the possibility of european quotas for legal immigration. the italian presidency stated that the strategic action to combat illegal immigration must be european and not the member states' action. we agree, but we can only regret that the presidency has not been able to overcome these reservations and to achieve in the conclusions of the summit something more incisive than a study on the relationship between legal immigration and illegal immigration, which will certainly be a useful study but is a totally inadequate instrument for europe to take charge of this tragedy.
mr president, my speech also concerns the sad situation which is unfortunately recurring more and more frequently on the italian coast. in lampedusa, another colleague said, "they are still counting the number of victims of the eighteenth ferry that sank, or in any case, of the tragedy that occurred". i think that blaming the italian presidency is a trivial and certainly not a ritual way of dealing with the problem. in any case, those responsible are the countries which have not implemented the recommendations and the commitment of the italian presidency, those countries which reject common rules for dealing with the problem of immigration, locking themselves up within the selfishness of their sovereignty. however, we too, mr president, have our responsibilities, and it is on this level that i ask you to speak. we are dealing in this parliament with the fight against human trafficking and illegal immigration, with common rules on asylum, with integration measures, with aid to third countries to carry out information and dissuasion measures for those who want to leave. well, these files are still on deadlocked positions. the usual ritual of amendments must be avoided and the time must be speeded up: in fact, an emergency is dealt with with urgency, not with the traditional soft and irresponsible pace of those who want to privilege bureaucracy over the effectiveness of actions.
commission. – mr president, honourable members, i address you today in the knowledge that a compromise package aimed at securing a first reading agreement is on the table. accurate monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions is vital to give us an overview of how effective eu policies are in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and what more needs to be done to meet our kyoto targets. this decision is an important further step in implementing the kyoto protocol and in ensuring that the community delivers on all its commitments under the protocol. let me extend my thanks to the rapporteur, mr sacconi, and his colleagues in the european parliament, who have worked hard to enable a first reading agreement to be reached on this decision. reaching agreement at first reading stage will enable this decision to enter into force quickly and be implemented by the member states and would be a further concrete demonstration of the community's commitment to addressing the problems of climate change. finally, of course, i warmly encourage members of the european parliament to support this possible deal.
the rapporteur. mr president, since 1992, the international community, or at least a large part of it, has been reacting and fighting against one of the greatest environmental and economic challenges facing humanity: climate change. we know that it is the most important issue in the world in the field of environmental sustainability and that it is having disastrous effects not only on the climate but also on ecosystems and living species. the union accepted the challenge in may 2002 by ratifying the kyoto protocol, thus demonstrating that the fight against climate change is one of its strategic priorities. by the decision to ratify the protocol, the member states agreed to fulfil the obligations of the protocol jointly. to ensure that the community as a whole can meet its legally binding international obligations, they have agreed to different emission limitation and reduction targets for each member state. member states therefore remain responsible for reporting annual emissions data. the proposal for a decision we are about to vote on therefore provides the framework for the community and its member states to ensure that their obligations in the field of reporting and accounting for emissions are met by improving the quality and accuracy of the information provided on policies and measures adopted, as well as on emissions and removals of all greenhouse gases, without forgetting the methodological aspects. based on the structure of the kyoto protocol and the guidelines of the un convention, the reporting obligations vary depending on whether the information is to be reported on an annual or a periodic basis. moreover, in the context of the convention and the kyoto protocol, two provisions are essential and necessary to fulfil the commitments made: first, the implementation and periodic updating of national programmes to limit or reduce gas emissions; second, transparent monitoring of actual and projected emissions. the vote tomorrow will oblige the member states to determine and report to the commission, by 15 january each year, the actual and provisional gas emissions data which will enable progress to be assessed and annual reports to be prepared by the community in accordance with its international obligations. the limited amendments made by the committee on the environment to the legislative proposal were aimed at making the mechanism even more binding and efficient, especially in the light of the latest discouraging data that greenhouse gas emissions in the european union are expected to increase for the second year in a row. as mrs wallström has already said, in the informal negotiations with the council and the commission, following the opinion of the committee on the environment, it was possible to reach an agreement on these amendments, which incorporated the substance of our amendments, including the most significant ones from a political point of view, such as those concerning the necessarily and compulsorily supplementary nature of the use of flexible mechanisms compared with the internal action plans that each state must set and implement in order to achieve its greenhouse gas reduction targets. that is why we are putting a package of agreed amendments to the vote in the house tomorrow. i hope that this parliament will really give a boost to the measure, allowing the states to move quickly to adapt to these rules. i think it is also a good political signal in the run-up to an important meeting in milan next december, at which we hope the wider international community will ratify the kyoto protocol.
the rapporteur. mr president, with today's debate and tomorrow's vote, the elearning programme is officially born. it is therefore time to congratulate those who have generated this programme. the mother of the programme is certainly the european commission, which, with its communication of may 2000, launched the first elearning pilot action, an action which, however, did not have its own budget line at that time. tomorrow, after two years of painstaking interinstitutional work, the first multiannual programme on e-learning will be voted on. we can thus understand that there was a father of this provision, as well as a mother. the role of the father is becoming increasingly difficult to assign, and here too it remains a question mark, but i would say that it should be divided in half between parliament and the council. the council's efforts, both under the greek presidency and, more finally, under the italian presidency, have enabled parliament to find a significant outlet for its demands and thus to allocate to the elearning programme an amount at least sufficient to start it. this multiannual programme, which is in addition to the other historical programmes such as socrates and leonardo, meets the requirements of the lisbon, stockholm and barcelona european councils. the main objectives are to combat fragmentation by means of the implementation of digital literacy methods, the promotion of virtual campuses, school twinning via the internet, the promotion and dissemination of good practice and cooperation between community programmes and action instruments promoted at national level. the budget for the programme has been increased to eur 44 million, thanks to what i can call intensive interinstitutional work. as regards the electronic twinning of european schools, in line with the objectives adopted in the previous resolution of the european parliament, i wanted to stress once again that teacher training remains a priority. i would like us to reflect once again on the fact that in 2003, on average, 90% of primary schools, 98% of secondary schools, 99% of vocational and technical schools in the member states were connected to the internet, but only 39% of teachers, 50% of secondary school teachers and 58% of vocational and technical school teachers actually used the internet as a teaching tool. so there is a great need for this programme. in reality, these averages conceal dramatic differences between member states: the average figure for denmark is about 70%, as opposed to greece's figure of less than 9%. these figures, which are already very clear, suggest two conclusions: the first concerns the use of the internet as a tool to facilitate learning. it is not just a question of the availability of infrastructure and school equipment but also a problem of teacher training, mentality and school organisation. the second conclusion concerns the use of technological resources. the aim can really be to exchange good practice between teachers from different member states, both at methodological and didactic level, for example through the activation of virtual classrooms. for these reasons, i have tried to emphasise in the report how the elearning programme will have to place greater emphasis on finding the most effective ways for teachers to integrate the use of the internet in their teaching and encourage the dissemination of good practice in this area. i would like to thank the commission and all those who have worked for the success of the work.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the jarzembowski report stresses the importance of the accelerated development of rail freight networks, with particular attention to cross-border problems. in this context, i would like to stress the unsustainable situation of the italian railway line between savona and the french border. it is an axis linking the west of the liguria region with the côte d'azur. this single track line - i stress, single track - constitutes a bottleneck for rail freight and passenger traffic, causing substantial damage to the economy of the area which is linked to tourism, olive growing and the production of flowers and delicacies. the single track also increases safety risks. the effects of this inadequacy of the railway system are felt on motorway traffic, with serious congestion and pollution problems in an area with a strong tourist vocation. there's been talk of doubling the line since the '50s, when i was still wearing shorts. since then, the reality has not changed and the increase in traffic volumes makes everything much more critical, at the limit of sustainability, due to the continuous delays that accumulate damaging also the adjacent french trunk. recent works have moved upstream some sections of the railway line, which is still single track and runs along the coast, and is subject to marine erosion. these interventions have made matters worse because they have created further bottlenecks. i conclude by expressing my hope that, as part of the relaunch of international networks in the european union, the problem will be solved as quickly as possible by 1 january 2006, the date set for the opening of rail networks to all types of freight services.
madam president, i think it is unnecessary to stress the importance of the vote on this second railway package, and above all the importance of ensuring that the same package is adopted by the council in the short term. we are all convinced of the need to work towards the modal shift of transport demand and loads in order to overcome congestion and the problems caused by the excessive use of certain modes, in particular road and air transport, which leads to overloading. the problem is to some extent to move from wishes to facts and concrete proposals, ensuring cost competitiveness, safety, reliability but, above all, the availability of the infrastructure and the necessary investments to optimise alternative potentials, starting with railways. if that is necessary, i must confess that i have never thought that the opening up of the market and the liberalization processes were in themselves an exclusive recipe, a kind of shortcut to the miracle. but under certain conditions: if we remove ideological cloaks and rigidities, we must recognize that they can help and facilitate these processes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in member states concerning the pursuit of television broadcasting activities is a good example of the need to ensure that the broadcasting of television programmes is not restricted to the member states. under these conditions, the prospects for liberalization must be able to rely on certain deadlines, even if not around the corner, because only under these conditions is it possible to guarantee the contribution of private resources to infrastructure investment projects. otherwise they could be doomed to delay because of the chronic difficulties we have, as we know, in finding the public resources needed to complete these processes. in this context, as in the amendments tabled to parliament, the principle of reciprocity must be guaranteed, because we believe that this will prevent market distortions, which have already occurred in other liberalization processes. i hope that appropriate solutions can be found, while maintaining these principles and choices, also in the relationship with the council.
we were in the future, mr. president. you, mr president, became, in the future, honorary president of the great party of the retired, which throughout europe had 30 per cent of the vote. he would come up to me, like an honorary chairman, and he would take me under his arm and say, dear fatuzzo, not only must you vote, i urge you to vote, in favour of the marielle de sarnez report which provides for the erasmus mundus master's degree for cultural links between young people, but you must also propose the establishment of the fatuzzus mundus senior master's degree i repeat: fatuzzus mundus senior master's degree so that intercultural exchanges between pensioners can take place in europe, which they would very much like to see. will it remain a dream?
i was in paris, mr. president. a night at the moulin rouge: varieties, dancing; dancers in topless, with feathers as befits. a splendor! and then, among these hundred dancers comes the first and only male dancer. i look at him: it was the honorable mario mauro, who danced with the grace of fred astaire and sang with the voice of frank sinatra. at a certain point, the music stops and the honorable mario mauro, dancer at the moulin rouge, turns to me and says these words: electronic matching of secondary schools: this is what i do with my document. could i have voted against this report, mr president, after the exploit i had seen of mr mauro?
i was on vacation at the beach, taking a bath. on the beach i saw mr jules maaten: a great swimmer, a surfer on the waves, but always a congressman and a politician. at one point he gives a speech to the retired swimmers who had gathered to hear him. he talked about his directive, he said he wanted clean water in the sea, and everyone listened to him. but i could see that he was looking out to sea where there were beautiful women swimmers, as prosperous as the baywatch swimmers, and he was following them with his eyes. then i had a doubt: is it not that he asks to make the waters clear and transparent, to the sea, so that he can better see the beauties that swim in those waters? i remained in doubt, but i could not help voting in favour.
i came to strasbourg this morning on the plane that leaves at 7 a.m. from milan malpensa. i was a little sleepy when i got into the car with mr napolitano and mr fiori, who were from milan, as i was. i blinked and had a kind of vision. what did i see, president? i saw that we were in the europe of 2050: beautiful flowers everywhere, all colors, so green; good people, good hearted people, there were no more wars; they all lived happily among the flowers. i then stopped a man who was passing by, who happened to be mr sacconi, the rapporteur for this report, and he said to me: you know, the greenhouse effect, despite what we've done in the past, it's increased, it's increased, it's increased. the whole earth has become a greenhouse full of flowers, as one uses where one wants to grow flowers, and in this way all men have also become better. other i voted in favour of this report, but i have a doubt, mr president: wouldn't it be better if we let the greenhouse effect grow and let things go on as nature is planning, even with the help of humans?
i could not help voting in favour of this important report by mr lange on the emission of gaseous pollutants to be reduced. i could not help but vote in favour, but i have seen that the president-in-office of the council, silvio berlusconi, after the incident he had here in parliament with mr schulz, does not miss an opportunity to listen to all the members of the european parliament who speak in this chamber. after listening to and watching mr lange, president berlusconi said that he had prepared a film in which he saw him as the protagonist. mr lange was more fortunate than mr schulz, however, because the film was a re-edition of gone with the wind, given the resemblance between mr lange and clark gable. oh, how i envy and how i envy the honorable lange who will make this film, re-editing gone with the wind, as a clark gable romance novel! could i have voted against, mr. president?
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs, the commission, mr wynn and the secretariat, which has always been led by mr de feo. this budget, ladies and gentlemen, which closes the europe of 15, is historic because it brings us finally to a europe of 25, and it is also a budget to be considered as a pre-election campaign. the solutions we've found apply to everything and everyone. what concerns me in this case is the aftermath; what concerns me is certainly the accession of the ten countries. what are we gonna do next? we must start thinking about this now, trying to review the financial perspective, trying to inject new resources, trying to review our procedure, because inevitably there will be some complications, not arguing with 15 but with 25: we must start now, at this moment, and not at a time when we are in an emergency or in a state of emergency. i would like to stress this, because we could have serious problems, and this goes beyond what the political positions may be. three, i want to remember, are the things i'm going to highlight: first, there is iraq. there is a great debate on the amendment presented, but i do not see what the scandal is. we have financed palestine with over a billion euros, we have financed the balkans with over a billion euros, we have financed afghanistan with many other funds, a billion euros; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, i would certainly stress the importance of investment in tens, which we must try to support, because it means development and employment. i am therefore grateful for the support for the amendment, but i am asking for even more resources at home at this point, to try to make it a political factor for the whole of europe, and not just a technical decision. thirdly, there is something very important in the amendments which have been tabled, and i would like to draw the attention of all the political groups to it: the amendment concerns the reception centre for disabled officials, the les castors centre. let 's vote for it . i ask everyone to raise awareness of this. we will be proud of it and honor ourselves, now and then.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i cannot speak to the council, since it is represented only by excellent officials. i hope that the absence of the presidency is auspicious, that it indicates that the council agrees with what parliament is about to vote and that we will therefore have a very simple second reading because it is not conflictual. i would also like to thank the two rapporteurs for their work and pay tribute to all those who have participated in this collective effort. i would like to thank mr mulder for having stressed in particular the risk that this exercise, which we carry out every year, will be reduced to a political fiction, a calendar of good intentions and good intentions, for which we become a very luxurious ngo, allowing ourselves to make amendments and comments to the budget and to give indications which are then not applied: just look at the billions of euros we give back to the member states every year. unfortunately, it is enough to look at the amount of ral. i have taken note of commissioner schreyer's commitment to give us a concrete answer now so that the 2004 financial year will be historic also in this respect, that is to say, so that there can finally be a coincidence between what the budgetary authority decides and what is actually implemented in the 2004 financial year. among the many positive and negative points to be made, i should like to focus on the question of the amendment concerning iraq. mr walter has informed me that his group and he himself do not intend to support this amendment. we have also learned from the newspapers that the german government will not even be represented in madrid, as it was not represented at the european council. it's becoming a habit; i do not know whether france will be represented there. but there is no doubt that today, faced with the security council resolution, faced with a new phase which is opening up, we are faced with the problem that europe's response is the same as that which preceded the security council resolution, which - i repeat - opened up the new phase in which all the political forces, or many of them, even the hostile ones, have changed their position. it seems to me that stopping and sending commissioner schreyer to the conference with this very small and frankly ridiculous sum does not stand up to a proposal which i consider important and which, while implying a breakthrough in prospects, is nevertheless an attempt at unity and a common policy, also by using the budget. that is why we will support that amendment. finally, as regards the gill report, i would like to stress what the rapporteur said about the need to increase information for citizens, something we very much agreed on. i thank the rapporteur for accepting this amendment to strengthen the policy of information through the internet and to ensure that, from next year, all our debates will be transmitted to the citizens via the internet.
madam president, i would first like to thank mr mulder for his work, which has been carried out with great balance and commitment and has resulted in a considerable consensus within the committee on budgets. the 2004 budget is in a continuity framework with the structure of the 2003 budget. the key objective for the coming year is to have sufficient resources and a sufficiently well-organised establishment to meet the challenge of enlargement, but also the new responsibilities that the enlarged europe must face on a world scale. i would like to touch on just a few points, because a lot has already been said. i am referring in particular to parliament's support for the reconstruction efforts in iraq, especially after the latest vote at the un; reaffirming its commitment to afghanistan and reaffirming that the programmes under way, despite the current difficulties, must be supported and maintained; the principle that aid to developing countries must be specifically and targeted, especially in relation to priority objectives such as the fight against poverty. it is also essential, i believe, to reiterate the need to ensure the maintenance of the tacis, cars and meda programmes, just as we feel the need for a new instrument to make the neighbourhood policy relevant and concrete. finally, i would like to mention the protection and promotion of children, especially those who are victims of war and natural disasters. finally, i would also like to thank the commission for its willingness to work with the committee on budgets and to express the hope that we will be successful in this challenge next year.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking in order to acknowledge, as chairman of the committee on legal affairs, the work done by the vice-president, mr rothley. this proposal for a directive has been put forward with great stubbornness and intelligence by mr rothley, and i want to acknowledge that to him in this house. we are particularly grateful to him because this directive is the result of article 192, which i particularly like, since it is an indirect legislative initiative, which sees parliament as the protagonist and also reaffirms the right of initiative of parliament and the members of the european parliament. this leads, in such a sensitive area, to more effective european citizenship, because, as mr rothley said, it makes it easier to take out or sign a short-term policy for a temporary stay in another member state and short-term insurance for a vehicle purchased outside the member state of residence of the owner. the result is that it will be easier to buy a car in any country of the union where the conditions are most favourable. i believe that this is of interest to many european citizens, because of the single insurance market which commissioner bolkestein spoke about and which is thus being established, and that it is therefore a valuable and useful piece of information for the european community as a whole. the most sensitive point in the report - which has already been underlined, but i would like to reiterate - concerns the higher amounts of guarantee provided for by the member states. the commission had provided for an amount of eur 1 million per victim in the case of damage to persons and eur 500 000 per claim in the case of damage to property. we believe that the amounts of eur 5 million per claim for personal injury and eur 2 million for damage to property are more appropriate and flexible and can provide a meeting point. i would like to formally acknowledge this compromise to mr rothley, because he has taken account of the different situations existing in the insurance markets, once again to give priority to a single insurance market. on the other hand, he also met the legal costs. it was not appropriate at this stage to extend insurance cover to injuries suffered by pedestrians and cyclists as a result of an accident involving them, because the matter is even more delicate and i think it could be regulated by an ad hoc regulatory instrument. if, as commissioner bolkestein has acknowledged, the work of reconciling parliament and the commission has been good and useful, i hope that the council and the commission will accept our amendments and that such an important directive will help to bring european citizens closer together in a common citizenship. i hope very much that this will be the case, because the compromise reached represents a high point of balance, which i hope the commission will take into account.
mr president, commissioner, the internal market in insurance must be completed by removing the barriers which still exist in this sector. it is no coincidence that the european parliament has asked the commission to submit a proposal to update the rules on car insurance, in order to ensure that the right of union citizens to live, travel and work without problems in any member state of the union itself is a reality. the proposal for a fifth directive on car rcds will certainly have the effect of modernising and improving european rules in this area. first, it will be easier to take out a short-term policy for a temporary stay in another member state and short-term insurance for a vehicle purchased outside the member state of residence of the owner. consumers will thus be able to buy a car more easily in any eu country where they find the best conditions, and this will help to stimulate cross-border competition. the directive also aims to update the limits on the minimum levels of cover for motorists. it therefore allows insured persons to change insurance more quickly. another objective is to improve the protection of pedestrians involved in accidents. finally, the directive allows citizens to obtain from their current insurer a statement of claims in which they have been involved, in order to be able to negotiate a new contract with another insurer. as regards minimum levels of cover, it is essential to avoid that they are too high, beyond all reasonable necessity. if this were to happen, the cost would inevitably be passed on to consumers, with significant increases in insurance policy prices. the negative impact would be particularly evident in some countries, including italy, where premium increases are already giving rise to a particularly heated debate. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. i therefore give the proposal a positive opinion; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner barnier, ladies and gentlemen, this is a report that photographs a problem, exposes a risk and outlines some solutions. the problem is the lurs, the still too wide gap between commitments and payments in the field of the structural funds, but also in other fields. rals are a composite phenomenon: there are physiological and pathological adrs; it is the latter that must be acted upon. the risk is not only that the regions concerned will lose structural funds; the biggest risk is the loss of credibility of cohesion policy in the european union. we know - and we are convinced - that the union, and even more so the enlarged union, needs an effective, strengthened and modern cohesion policy. the solutions we have outlined and on which we seem to have a good understanding with commissioner barnier, who is always ready for dialogue and discussion with us, can be divided into two groups: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. the first of these concerns the adjustment of the level of payments entered in the budget. of course, this availability of resources must be accompanied by a more functional partnership between the commission and governments, between governments and regions, and between regions and subregional and local authorities. it is also urgent to step up the work of accompanying the new member states, which is already being carried out by the european commission. as regards the medium-term solutions, it is appropriate that the commission should present its guidelines for the regulation for the next programming period as soon as possible, in order to redefine the objectives and the methods of future application in a clear and easily understandable way. to this end, we believe that the following is necessary: first, emphasis should be placed on the commission's strategic role, which should be centred on the definition of development priorities, the compliance of actions with those priorities and the monitoring of the effectiveness of implementation systems, while member states should be given responsibility for implementation and management; secondly, to ensure simplicity, clarity and precision, and it therefore seems essential, in the context of this simplification objective, to unify the funds and to entrust the management of this single fund to a single commission department; thirdly, to provide for programming to be defined in the framework of a partnership between the commission and the member state; fourthly, to give the monitoring committee a wider role so that decisions on the programme and programme changes can be taken by the monitoring committee; finally, the measures to encourage the implementation of the actions, such as the n+2 clause for automatic decommitment, but also the bonus reserve for positive performance, should be maintained. i would like to conclude by addressing the question of automatic disengagement. the next 31 december is near and there is a new deadline. we believe that the rule should be maintained for the next few years as well, since it has undoubtedly had an important deterrent function. and yet, as commissioner barnier is well aware, in many situations, regions and national governments have taken shortcuts to certify 100 per cent of spending and to avoid the loss of funds. we ask commissioner barnier to exercise the strictest vigilance on this matter and at the same time we urge him to prevent the resources released by the so-called 'side projects' from being spent for purposes other than regional and national programming. i'll end with an example. if the italian government - to speak of my home - receives transport funds to build transport infrastructure in the south of italy and then, after having freed up resources with the shore projects, gives that saving to infrastructure in the north, we have to intervene to prevent that from happening. i hope that parliament will give this report a very broad support, because that would give the guidelines contained in it a very important political value. (applause) i would like to thank
president, it may be true that six months is too short a time to make a real difference, but it is even shorter if you have a tendency to waste time on meetings of heads of state, which are useless and costly replicas of discussions already held by foreign ministers. it is in brussels that the italian presidency should have presented some sort of summary document, an attempt to resolve issues which have been known for months. enough with the questionnaires, it's time to find some answers! on that subject, a word about the legislative council. we think this is a real question of democracy. as minister frattini was able to see yesterday, there is a disconnect between what many governments want and what the overwhelming majority of parliaments want. the legislative council is indispensable to ensure democratic control and the separation of powers, and today we would like your government to give us assurances on this issue. the intergovernmental conference, its impasse, the discussions on figures and percentages, which are so closely reminiscent of the nights in nice, make us somewhat regret the convention which, with all its limitations, also knew how to discuss the common destiny of europeans and how to govern it. a word about the tragedy of lampedusa: the council is sleeping on proposals on the legal framework for immigration and the definition of refugees, while proposals from this or that government are constantly coming in. president, take home a result on this issue: i think it's worth a lot more than a lot of words. the spirit of nice is also reflected in the list of bridges and motorways which the italian presidency and commissioner de palacio want to put in place. of the famous list of great works, only the cries of two categories of stakeholders are heard today: those who complain that the tunnel or the corridor is not included and those who are pushing for the construction sites to be opened as soon as possible. there is no debate about the quality and necessity of these investments; i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter. the italian government's not so veiled attempt to exert pressure in an increasingly unelegant manner on france, which rightly doubts the need for the turin-lyon tunnel, is proof of this. it is very embarrassing, mr president, for a large country like italy to have to bargain an unsustainable tunnel for a dubious electricity investment, especially when one considers the very un-european reality of minister lunardi's conflict of interest in this project. we are still adamant that what is needed today to really revive ecologically and socially sustainable growth in europe is a kind of marshall plan - another marshall plan - for useful infrastructure, but also for renewable energy, land regeneration, research and innovation. every day, in the countries that will soon be part of the union, kilometres and kilometres of peripheral railway lines are closed, leaving thousands of citizens stranded: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the people of europe. we call on the commission to stop acting as a mere notary of the claims of this or that and to return to its central mission: the european union's interests are at stake. it seems there's gonna be a new list called the quick-start. we should like to tell president prodi at once that we like the idea very much, especially if this new list is based on the quality of the work and its social and environmental sustainability, which is unfortunately not what commissioner de palacio did with the van miert list. we remember - why the commission and the council seem to forget - that parliament has a codecision power on this subject, which we intend to make full use of. the council's decision to transfer the examination of chemicals legislation to the competitiveness council is a defeat for all those who care about the health of citizens and a victory for the large chemical industry. it is clear that this decision was also affected by the hesitancy and delay of the commission in presenting its proposal and its extreme weakness in relation to lobbies, as well as the serious negligence in transposing the requests of civil society during a very long and fake consultation. it was to protect health and the environment, not to promote competitiveness or trade, that the decision was taken in 1998 to draw up a proposal on this subject. we are mobilized to continue along this line and ready to fight, together with environmental associations and consumers, in respect of all those workers in europe and the world who continue to get sick and die. president watson opened with a suggestive reference to the terrible situation at guantanamo, but i would like to underline my disappointment that nothing was said about the 11 000 prisoners, or we could say kidnapped by the americans in baghdad: they are not europeans, but they also have rights. here we repeat our proposal: we are suspending the entry into force of the extradition agreement with the united states in order to put pressure on the americans on this issue. one last word, mr president: the european parliament, as you know, is very attentive to the question of the rights of its citizens. in july, parliament called on italy to take action on the case of adriano sofri, making it a european issue. we are confident that you will respond to this appeal: you can do it. we europeans think it is really painful to see the entire italian government, and the will of the president of the republic, being held in check by the whims of a minister. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr pasqua rightly points out that this is his european parliament: this is the landing of the positions of the non-europe of de gaulle and not of the europe which, in 1946 in zurich, winston churchill called upon to stand up. europe, stand up! we have the 'disunited' states of europe, we have bureaucracies that are now divorcing themselves and, mr president-in-office, we have a council which is being asked by parliament to appoint a european representative for the caucasus in july and a representative for iraq on 4 september and again on 24 september. for the chechen genocide, for the iraqi reality, apart from that shameful little bribe worthy of the italian traffickers, apart from those 200 million out of 35 billion, we will not give anything. this is europe, this europe! on israel, iraq, chechnya and guantanamo, this europe is roaring at the united states and railing against russia, china, chechnya and vietnam. i cannot say, of course, that we are giving too much responsibility to the italian presidency of the council. the draft convention, which has been handed over to our debate with such praise, is nothing but a shapeless, velvety, presumptuous mass that has no connection with constitutional law as it is known in the world. as far as the rule of law and liberal states are concerned, this is a new and presumptuous claim, which does not hold up even now, at the conception stage; imagine how well it will work when it's done. president-in-office of the council, despite the european parliament's injunctions, you have not yet presented an informal draft on the death penalty, even as we are nearing the end of the un general assembly. i think we can wait on this one: the european union must be able to wait for israel, it must wait for turkey, and we european federalists of the great europeanist tradition in italy and in many other parts of europe must also wait.
mr president, i shall only dwell on the questions concerning the intergovernmental conference, although on this subject you, mr president-in-office, have been very sober, as was the council's final document of 16 october, which devoted only eight and a half lines to it. but yesterday, with minister frattini, we had a good opportunity to discuss this in the constitutional committee, which is open to national parliaments, and i will take up the concerns and also the critical remarks expressed there, which have now been echoed by mr méndez de vigo. let me clear the floor of any misunderstanding. there is no prejudice in this parliament towards the italian presidency. on the contrary, there is the credit to be given to italy for the important contributions it made as a founding country to the construction of europe at crucial stages. the problem for the italian presidency is now to be able to cope with this opening up of credit, in the best tradition of italian europeanism. why are we worried? because the tendency has already been shown by a number of governments to call into question some of the most significant innovations in the draft convention. how can we respond to such a trend? that is the question. the way in which the conference started at ministerial level is alarming. we know what happened, even though you, president berlusconi, did not mention it. the debate began with the novelty of the draft convention in the exercise of the legislative function within the union: the council of ministers is no longer a fragmented exercise by sector through multiple information from the council of ministers, but the concentration of legislative powers in a single council 'general and legislative affairs'. in the consultation by questionnaire, which took place before the foreign ministers' debate on this subject, a large number of governments said 'no': for what reasons, it is not known. yet, the representatives of all the governments that now say no had accepted that innovation as part of the final overall compromise of the convention. the legislative council is no small matter. i do not have time to explain why i said that, but what has happened on the subject of the legislative council at ministerial level in the igc is alarming. the question cannot and must not be considered closed. if it were to be considered closed, we would not be faced with a compromise to the downside, but with a pure surrender. moreover, just as many governments have, with simple 'no's', turned the tables on the choice of the legislative council, so they could do the same on other points of the draft convention which are equally and even more significant and qualifying. this is not acceptable. the presidency shall consider only requests for amendment which have a comprehensible and sustainable basis for their reasons. it is up to the presidency to show the necessary persuasiveness and persuasiveness, in the light of the fact, mr berlusconi, that it represents not only the position of italy but the totality of the positions and forces which have converged in the common conclusion of the convention. among these forces are parliaments, which must never be forgotten: the european parliament and the 28 national parliaments, i.e. the direct representatives, legitimated by the vote of the citizens, of the peoples of the union. the general agreement or goodwill which the heads of state or government expressed at the inaugural meeting of the igc in rome cannot be reassuring if the respective foreign ministers immediately afterwards begin to stretch or cut the draft convention. be careful not to get caught up in the rhetoric! the european interest, you said that last time, and it was important that you said that, must prevail over national interests, but the risk, and we are seeing it, is that not even the protection of fundamental national interests will prevail but the defence of small income positions. we are afraid, mr berlusconi, that the hemingway metaphor, which was quoted in this parliament by altiero spinelli when his project was approved, when he was more than doubtful about his fate, may come true. the big fish we think we caught with the draft convention is in danger of being reduced to a slime, because the sharks have taken away the flesh. we must do everything we can to prevent it.
mr president, will the italian presidency succeed at this historic moment for the constitution and the construction of europe? my hope, to the very end, is that the fruits of the convention will ripen and be reaped in the interests of europe. i would like to ask you two political questions on the eve of the last two months of your presidency: the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution. we are no longer expecting general good wishes, but finally steps forward from one of the countries most affected by this reality. i also expect, mr president, an initiative from the council, which you are chairing, on the situation in iraq. the unanimous vote of the security council can open a new road. the european members of the security council have finally reached an agreement, and now the council must turn that compromise into an initiative: we can and must return to multilateralism, we can work together on reconstruction, on the humanitarian emergency, on security, on the democratic transition in iraq towards iraqi sovereignty, under the mandate and guidance of the united nations. mr president, as a european i cannot help expressing my serious concern about the outcome of the intergovernmental conference. you confirmed your wish to conclude the work by december, remaining as faithful as possible to the text of the convention, without any downward compromise. it seems to me that the italian presidency has so far confined itself to taking note of the various delegations' views on the various subjects, and has even risked reopening the debate on areas which were considered to be settled. but europe, as president watson has said, does not need a presidency of notaries or mere arbitration, or a list of the various needs. it is time to propose leadership and, through this, a far-sighted and wise synthesis. president prodi is right: a rigid constitution would be doomed to collapse. i hope that italy, which in 1985 achieved the impossible with the igc that led to the single act, will in 2003 live up to its europeanist traditions and help to launch a constitutional text that is flexible so that it can be functional, convincing so that it can accompany the life of europe for the next 50 years. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i find this debate frankly schizophrenic. the policies which the president of the council is presenting here can only be presented on condition that the concrete reality of europe is kept out of the debate and the examination. you speak of an intervention in the pension system which should safeguard social cohesion. mr president, you could just look at your country: the day after tomorrow, all the trade unions will go on general strike against her pension policy, including those who signed the pact for italy with her. does the opposition of all workers to a certain policy mean anything? does he say anything after the fighting in france, after the fighting in spain, after the mood in germany, or does he say nothing? you say, with loud words, that a european constitution is being launched. but did you notice that on october 4th, in rome, there were two major european events - one organized by european trade unions, the other by the movement critical of globalization - which expressed a strong, radical criticism of this constitution for the weakness and ambiguity of its words on peace, rights, work? in perugia-assisi, a multitude of people from different cultures, religions and political groups called for a radical change in this constitutional structure, placing the rejection of war at the top of the agenda. but the war in iraq continues to poison the world. guantanamo and the kidnappings in baghdad have been mentioned here. we could also look at the measures restricting freedom in arab countries in the face of terrorism and war. but you don't tell us how to get out of this dramatic spiral. you speak of the christian roots of this europe, but if these roots exist they should be ashamed of the mediterranean tragedy which speaks of a humanitarian catastrophe. how can you not see that the quota policy, the immigration policy, has failed? mr president-in-office, you have spoken solemnly about this tragedy. i do not want to remind you, because it would perhaps be unflattering, that ministers in your government have spoken of those immigrants saying that they should be kicked back to their country. i want to talk to you instead about the concrete failure of this policy, the policy of containment instead of welcoming and creating another model of development. you talk about economic policy and you seem to ignore the real crisis of the economy of this europe and its decline. you talk about speeches and great works and you have just heard the criticism of their quality; but i ask you, above all, how do you think you will deal with a crisis in the european economy in the face of the devaluation of the dollar, the drugged competition of the united states of america and competition such as that emerging from china? how do you think you're going to get out of this pincer and how do you think you're going to get out of the decline? you are holding on to the policies of maastricht, to those policies which the president of the commission once wisely called stupid. you can only really speak your policy with any force if you prevent it from confronting reality. reality speaks to your failure.
welcomes the decision of the council to adopt a defence policy, reaffirming the established cooperation with nato, and stresses the need for a commissioner with voting rights for each member state for the work of the igc; the challenge of eradicating terrorism starts with a europe capable of defending every part of its territory, every citizen of its peoples, but also of promoting peace, justice, freedom, democracy and development in countries where violence and hunger are driving millions of people into desperate refugees. the tragedies that have occurred off the italian coast call for the council to decide on the right of asylum for political refugees, which has been too long suspended, and to condemn clearly those governments which do not respect human rights, do not invest in resources to fight hunger and are silent about the terrorist and fundamentalist organisations located on their territories. europe is clearly committed to resolving the somali crisis, which has seen thousands of desperate people on the run since 1991, first in the indian ocean and now in the sicilian channel. these were not just any immigrants: they were somali, mr. president! the nairobi conference should therefore be resumed and concluded with a federal pact between the somali states, a precursor of democracy and the fight against fundamentalism, terrorism and poverty. those whose names appear on the lists of terrorist organisations issued after 11 september must not be interlocutors of either individual states or the union. the council, whose decision to set up a border management agency we welcome, is promoting a new model of cooperation in which aid is directed to the people and those who deny human rights are condemned. the council should also ask for mercy for those whom the sharia is condemning to death, such as the young iranian woman who was sentenced to death for killing her rapist.
mr president, president berlusconi's statement on the tragic humanitarian situation in lampedusa is, thank god, also supported by the facts. i have invited president cox to send a european parliament mission to lampedusa. europe can come to lampedusa and elsewhere to see, for example, the work of the italian police, the carabinieri and the financiers, who i have seen on their motor scooters, dividing and often delivering the entire ration of water and food at sea to these poor wretches who bring the filth of smugglers to our borders. but alongside humanitarian action, the states and the european union have a duty to address a firm, strong and stern warning to the political leaders of the countries of origin, who bear the moral responsibility of not opposing, as is the duty of all civilised countries, this trade in human flesh. yesterday, we welcomed and applauded the high representative of one of these african countries, one of those countries which has not yet ratified or concluded the readmission agreements which are so necessary and which represent the real basis for a policy of effective action against the trafficking of illegal immigrants. we warmly welcome the european union's decision to introduce biometric identifiers, which are essential for identification, in visas, residence permits and passports. we therefore also share your hope that the jha council will respect the 2003 deadline as soon as possible in order to reach agreement on the council's proposals for this much-needed measure. the policy of the old italian governments, of the left, was unfortunately punctuated by enormous and vile plunder on the poor of africa. mr barón crespo, you can be sure that we will ensure that this kind of racism, which is so harmful and gravely offensive to those peoples, is not prosecuted any further. we shall ensure the utmost transparency in aid to the third world, which must never again be used - as has unfortunately happened in a past of which we are ashamed - for business or even for the black financing of political parties, in italy or perhaps in other countries of europe.
mr president-in-office of the council, in your report you have described a fairy tale europe which, if it were true, we would like to share. we see, however, that you are moving towards the adoption of a constitution which muzzles, reduces and conditions the functioning of your institutions. moreover, you are increasingly flattening europe to the american and soviet diktats. we would like you, at least on this occasion, to put aside your personal ambition for once in favor of the collective interest. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative in this matter, and i hope that the council will take the initiative in this matter. we would also like you, at least as long as you are president of the european council, not to sell out, in exchange for a weekend at camp david with bush or a picnic in sardinia with putin, europe's role in defending human rights, even when they are being violated by the americans in guantanamo or the russians in chechnya. let us hear your voice on these issues, if you have the courage, and if you are not in a conflict of interest with them.
mr president, it has been four months since the thessaloniki conference handed you the draft constitution, but after four months there is still nothing to suggest that there are any real possibilities for overcoming the well-known differences on essential points, either as regards the council's vote - unanimously or not - or the composition of the commission, or economic and social policy and foreign and defence policy, for which the european military force would be complementary to that of nato and therefore subordinate to the united states and not autonomous. the italian presidency has been inert and has been unable to achieve any tangible results. the serious thing is its substantial silence on the tragic development of international events, starting with the situation in the middle east. there will be no peace, no end to the terrorism which we all condemn, as long as israel continues to occupy the palestinian territories, as long as it continues to build the shameful wall of division. the un is paralyzed by american vetoes. the italian presidency must intervene: the european union is committed to the peace process and to the peace process in the middle east, and to the peace process in the region. as far as iraq is concerned, the immediate withdrawal of the occupying troops is imperative.
mr president, it is always difficult to sum up and evaluate in two minutes a council with an agenda as dense as the last one in brussels. i shall be reflecting on the economic context, also with reference to many of the speeches this morning. that something in our analysis, that some account doesn't come back, is a fact. we are coming out of a world trade organisation summit which has produced absolutely no results, and to use the term failure is a concrete way of interpreting it. we have a multilateral approach to trade policies which are in a very serious crisis at the moment. we must begin again to examine whether the doha assumptions are still unfounded or whether the developments in doha will lead us to other positions. at the same time, in europe we are experiencing a situation in which inflation levels are substantially under control; we have an energy price, i would say, fairly stable and the financial market conditions are not negative. so the question is: why is there no video? and the economic recovery depends on a number of factors which can only be played out in a european context. it is true that we are reinterpreting a keynesian model adapted to the times, but in this keynesian model we have the need to accelerate structural reforms. and when we talk about structural reforms, we also have the burden and the political task of getting out of position rentals which are now becoming heavy in relation to the evolution of the economy. the proposals from brussels are concrete and interesting. we have been taught that politics is a job that must produce a result every day, and that it is built on daily commitment and daily work. i think that on 12 and 13 december we shall see much of what was discussed in the council last week translated into concrete proposals.
mr president, during the work of the convention the pessimists had predicted a negative result, at best a delay which would have undermined the objective of giving the new europe its first constitution in a short time. instead, things went the way we all know: the political will prevailed in the end, the sense of responsibility prevailed, and giscard d'estaing, despite initial criticism, brought the ship into port. i hear some pessimists in this chamber today making unfavourable predictions about the outcome of the igc. no one, of course, expects the work of the intergovernmental conference to be free of obstacles. no one thinks that everything will be easy, but i am convinced that in the end, as at the convention, the european interest will prevail. that is why i am optimistic, that is why i am convinced that this presidency will bring important steps forward for our europe. how can we not welcome the statement by the spanish prime minister, mr aznar, and how can we not welcome some of the statements by president chirac? politics is mediation, not propaganda; is the ability to reach the target within the timeframe. i am convinced that this presidency will therefore achieve the objectives it has set itself: europe will have its first constitutional treaty before the next european elections, the fruit of the valuable work of the convention and also the fruit of the work of this parliament. i consider it a very positive outcome that parliament has actively participated in the work of the intergovernmental conference, and this choice is confirmation of the fact that the italian presidency has kept the commitments it made in this house. i cannot fail to stress the importance of a reference to the judeo-christian roots in the preamble to the constitution. it is not a question of monopoly, mr barón crespo, it is the exact opposite. the second point i would like to make is the need not to squander the contribution which christianity has made to the growth and moral and social development of this continent. i think of the values embodied and lived by mother teresa of calcutta: these are values that belong to all of us, believers and non-believers alike. even when we talk about the great and difficult issue of immigration, europe cannot but hear the cry of pain that rises from millions and millions of africans. africa, with its dramas, will be the emergence of the coming decades. your words, mr president-in-office, confirm that the approach to the great emergency is the right one. keep going! as many colleagues have said today in this house, europe - all of europe - is called upon to take responsibility, politically and economically, from the point of view of organization, for the protection of its borders. the path taken by the italian presidency, i repeat, is the right one. it must therefore be encouraged and supported, as mr bertinotti must be supported in the field of development policy. how can we expect to increase the competitiveness of our regions without the construction of major infrastructures to develop the internal market and create new jobs? let us also move forward with the lisbon decisions: without serious reform of the welfare systems, there is no hope for our young people. social-democratic germany has taken this path, as has centre-right france. it is not a matter of choosing one side or the other, it is a matter of political foresight. the decision in favour of research is also positive: the commission has already made a commitment in this house in july, and it has been kept; as has the commitment to fight organised crime. i am pleased to see that mr schulz follows the italian newspapers with great attention. i'll allow myself to supplement your press conference with some news. it is noted that, as regards the european public prosecutor's office, the italian government and the presidency of the union believe that they are adhering to the text submitted to the european union by the convention. as regards the european arrest warrant, it is also well known - as we read in the italian press - that the draft law adapting the italian law to the framework decision envisaged at european level has already been submitted to the council of ministers and will be discussed shortly, and then submitted to our parliament for adoption by 31 december this year. in conclusion, therefore, i think that this house, despite some deliberately controversial statements on political affiliation, encourages the italian presidency to continue on the path it has embarked upon.
i am giving information which was already given by our president at the start of the debate this morning, when not all the members were present in the chamber. this is an important and interesting information: i would like to inform you that for the first time three new interpreting booths are being used during this sitting. for today's discussion we have interpretation into three of the new languages, namely polish, hungarian and czech. the channels are 12 for czech, 13 for hungarian and 14 for polish. communication of the council's common positions: see minutes of the hearing. (applause) i would like to thank we shall now proceed to the vote. report (a5-0334/2003) by mrs miet smet, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, on violations of women's rights and international relations in the eu [2002/2286 (ini)) ] before the vote
mr president, in support of what mrs valenciano said and taking into account that this was indeed a serious procedural violation, i would like to support her proposal, which does not consist in referring the report back to committee but simply in postponing the vote in order to clarify matters. we support the position of mrs valenciano, which is very correct in terms of procedure.
- i put to the vote mrs. valenciano's request to postpone the vote. (parliament approved the request)
- i put to the vote the request for a postponement of the vote. (parliament approved the request)
- this concludes voting time. (the sitting was suspended at 12.50 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, commissioner, i believe that mr brok's report is more of a manifesto than a report. a manifesto of what the european union's foreign and defence policy should be; the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. it is a very topical issue now that, with the return - as the president-in-office of the council said - of ten countries to europe, the union is expanding in a way that was unthinkable and unforeseeable just a few years ago. among the many countries that look forward to the union, i would like to emphasize here, if only because i was there with a delegation from the european parliament, the importance of ukraine, a country that is in the balance between the two worlds, the european and the slavic, and which it would be in our interest to link to europe. the brok report - and my colleague has just done so - analyses the council's report very well, a document in which we find a simple list of accounts, without a thorough political evaluation and with the priorities just mentioned. but if i may be allowed, in the short time available, to supplement the brok report in any way, i would like to support what mr wuori has proposed with an amendment, namely the addition of east africa to the priority areas listed in the report. we cannot fail to mention the important and decisive role of mediation in the conflicts between ethiopia and eritrea, somalia and sudan, which italy has played with great sacrifice and difficulty, but also with recognized authority. italy has encouraged the european union to become progressively involved in the management of these crises, and i believe that it is right and even necessary to include east africa among the priority areas for the cfsp, and precisely in paragraph 8 of the brok report.
mr president, i would like to thank president brok for his classic balance. he gives us a testimony of how much the world situation has changed since last year. we were then under the influence of terrorist attacks, now the reflections are about the attack on iraq. the rapporteur recalls the deep divisions that have arisen between the member states of the european union, putting transatlantic relations to the test and affecting the nations within nato in various ways. but now, says mr brok, europe's role must be redefined, and the political crisis caused by the war must be seen as an opportunity to make the union a credible and powerful actor in foreign policy. the conditions for reaching the target are, of course, still not entirely clear: some newly joined countries and their neighbours are discovering america and its promises of political and economic guarantees for the first time. it is therefore right to recall the duty of the member states to refrain from intervening in international affairs on the basis of unilateral national positions, before the european union has had the opportunity to define a common european position. i have no time to go into this, of course, but the future of foreign policy is bound up with the european constitution. the veto can override the most ambitious of the peace plans, as was said this morning. the european union's foreign and defence policy objectives also depend on its ability to provide itself with military resources; you can think of low-cost operations. perhaps, indeed, we should be satisfied with that, although i do not think so. the franco-german brigade alone, the nucleus of the rapid reaction force, would perhaps have been sufficient in 1991 to stop the balkan crisis, as our minister frattini said today. you have to insist: in addition to the small increases recorded... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner, i am sorry to say that the policy you are pursuing today is no longer just a cowardly and irresponsible policy: it is a policy of the people. it is a criminal policy, because what you are doing, mr president-in-office, is criminalizing an entire people. you have presented them as a terrorist people; the foreign ministers of the five major countries of the european union, who met in paris last week, promised to exchange information on the training camps for international terrorists in chechnya. yet you have never given us, the public, the slightest proof of this. you talk about chechen terrorists in afghanistan, but no chechens have ever been found in afghanistan; you told us the same thing about iraq, but you never found any chechens, dead or alive, in iraq. this is an operation identical to that which was done in the 1930s, when a whole people presented themselves as a people of plutocrats; the chechen people are being portrayed as terrorists by the european public and the world public day after day. you do it because it suits you; i think that this is a good thing because of the policy you are pursuing with british petroleum, which is of great interest to mr blair, with shell, which is of great interest to mr oostlander, with agip, which is of great interest to president prodi or president berlusconi, with total, which is of great interest to president chirac, and obviously with other companies. this is what you are doing, to defend what is a policy of interest, and certainly not a real policy.
mr president, let me say, as a preamble, that it is quite bizarre that any debate we have on the death penalty continues to be tainted first and foremost by many reticences. a few months ago we were very uncomfortable to see the tone of the debate on cuba become exasperated, while we continue to hear only polite words about china, with its 3,138 executions in one year, which at times become a kind of embarrassed babble when europe is called upon to comment on the increasingly frequent, at times almost industrial, use of the death penalty in the united states or in other so-called liberal democracies which continue to use the scaffold, such as taiwan, thailand, japan and india. we would not like to see these political shyness now compounded by a serious omission in the face of a commitment which the presidency of the council formally made to this parliament on 2 july last, namely the presentation of a resolution on a moratorium on capital punishment to the united nations general assembly. we remind - and we remind minister frattini - that this resolution was indicated as a priority of the italian presidency in its foreign policy programme and we know - this is common sense and our experience says - that the moratorium is the first political step towards the abolition of the death penalty; the rest is just fairy tales. the deadline for tabling a text of this resolution is 7 november, but there is still no sign of the resolution. after many decades of noisy and sometimes fruitless discussions, it would have been irresponsible to announce such an important political initiative four months ago and then give in to pressure from those who do not want the un to speak out against the death penalty. the risk of defeat? i am thinking more of the duty of the battle, the duty of the political battle which the european union must take on its own shoulders. in conclusion, we also entrust the president-in-office of the council, who is leaving for china, with the task of reminding that country that, in the face of the value of life, there can be no convenience or political hierarchy, not even with regard to china.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite repeated calls from many quarters for the defence of human rights to be limited to the abolition of the death penalty, in recent years we have seen not only an increase in capital sentences in some countries but also the hardening of the systems of execution by barbaric methods. in calling for at least a moratorium on the death penalty, the national alliance would like to recall, by way of example only and on the basis of the forcibly partial data provided by amnesty international for 2002, that in iran, saudi arabia and sudan alone there were 113, 48 and 40 executions respectively, not to mention the 1,060 executed in china. in this context, while we support the urgency of a moratorium on the death penalty, we must also call for the european union and the united nations to intervene in relation to those countries where penalties are applied which are not linked to secular systems but to fundamentalist cultures or traditions of whatever origin. it is also necessary that, while upholding the right to religious freedom for every individual, it should be firmly proclaimed that the application of sharia law, within a state or in part of a state, cannot be accepted by the member states of the european union. for this reason, the moratorium on the death penalty must also be accompanied by sanctions that europe must impose on those governments which, by not accepting the moratorium, continue to apply the death penalty by means of cruel methods such as stoning. one of the desirable sanctions could be the suspension of economic relations with these countries: i am not saying that we should not continue to help people wherever possible, but that we should stop trading - allow me to use the term - with those countries whose governments are knowingly continuing to violate human rights. europe cannot impose its laws and its concept of democracy on other countries, but it cannot continue to have economic and commercial relations with governments which are based on the violation of the most elementary human rights, because in those countries the death penalty is not only the one imposed by the courts or executed by the executioner but also the one imposed daily by hunger, despair and violence, which push entire populations to seek refuge elsewhere and perhaps, as is happening in somalia since 1991, to die in the waters of the indian ocean or in the sicilian channel. finally, the death penalty is also the one that terrorists carry out continuously, killing innocent citizens. there can therefore be no hope of achieving a real moratorium on the death penalty unless sanctions are also decided against those who apply inhuman and fundamentalist laws and who cover up terrorist acts. for the time being, mr president, it is appropriate that the italian presidency should be urged by this parliament to make a symbolic gesture, namely to ask iran for mercy for the young woman condemned to death for killing the man who was raping her. this intervention by europe can also give new hope to the many women who are oppressed by the fundamentalist and inhuman vision of too many governments.
mr president, i have ninety seconds as president of 'touch cain' and as a member of the transnational radical party, which has been fighting for decades to finally get there, and i emphasize this by addressing president frattini to state his convictions, instead of making a somewhat indecent hieroglyphics around conventions. in 1994 we lost by only eight votes at the un, because of the concern of singapore and other states that national sovereignty would be diminished by these moratorium proposals. since then, thirty-three states have become abolitionists and have implemented the moratorium. the italian presidency has come forward and is still coming forward, declaring its conviction of this battle, and it is really taking every day, in the garbage can of pretexts and alibis, every opportunity to act against the things it has committed itself to. mr president-in-office of the council, we are fighting for the sake of our country, if possible - in spite of you or with you - and for europe, to have a little respect for the convictions that we accept and declare that we accept, and to stop following stupid and wrong conventions in a despicable way. i've run out of time, but i'm afraid you're running out of time for credibility and decency. i hope it's not still the case, but indecency and not being believed is what you risk and make us risk.
i suggest. i can tell the honourable member that the council has not received any proposals or legislative initiatives in this area. nevertheless, aware of the importance of the issue, the italian presidency raised the issue of the execution of prison sentences at the informal meeting of justice ministers held in rome on 13 september. we are obviously waiting for the development of this debate, which the presidency has initiated, to mature.
mr president-in-office of the council, you spoke in this capacity and in this capacity you answered as if you were not also the representative of the italian government. mr turco's question said exactly that, namely that his colleague, minister castelli - who is also president of the council but also a member of the government of a member state and who therefore has the opportunity to present the proposal to which you refer - announced on 7 august, in the corriere della sera and during a parliamentary hearing, that the italian government, or he personally, intended to launch an initiative to define minimum standards of livability in european prisons. since this seemed to us to be a very good idea and since this is the idea which parliament has been asking the council for years - to which i would even add the idea of extending to members of the european parliament the right of italian members to visit prisons - i would like to ask you, on behalf of the italian presidency, if you can confirm this intention in this house.
i suggest. the honourable member's question raises a problem which cannot be answered by the council or by the presidency of the council. this is the organisation of public consultations at national level, a matter for the member states. we have expressed a position, which can obviously be the position of every single member state of the european union; each is governed by different rules regarding popular consultations, referendums. there are states in europe which do not provide for the possibility of a referendum; there are voices in favour of a european referendum on the draft constitutional treaty. these are all ideas and proposals which i and the presidency are certainly not in a position to evaluate and respond to today. the very sensitive and very important issue of popular approval of the draft treaty is a matter for the member states, and each state is governed by different rules. it is therefore not a matter on which the council can express an opinion. i can, however, express a wish and an assessment which is purely personal, perhaps a dream, certainly not a reality that can be realised in the near future: the european parliament has been asked to vote on the draft treaty on the same day. i call it a personal dream, because i realize how difficult it is to achieve.
i suggest. i'll answer very briefly, and the answer is obviously yes. we welcome any initiative which gives strength and popular legitimacy to the constituent process under way, but this is a favour and a vision which, as you have said very well, mr president, cannot impose solutions on the constitutional systems of different countries.
president frattini, we have just heard your assessment and we thank you. i think they've made themselves very clear. i would like to ask whether the evaluations made so far and the proposals put forward by the individual member states to define the text of the convention, that is, the constitutional treaty, have included any evaluations or ideas as regards propositional referendums. i understand, and we know, that there is no possibility of a repeal referendum in our legal systems, nor is there any possibility at present of subjecting this constitutional treaty to such an assessment. but as far as the referendum is concerned, are there any ideas or not?
i would like to ask president frattini whether, when we speak of disadvantaged areas, we should not mean not only the outermost regions but also the mountainous areas, because they too are disadvantaged for geographical reasons.
mr president, we must recognize that this is a very serious and explicit report, which expresses a profoundly european and, i would say, ancient culture: the culture of munich, the culture of vichy, the culture of mussolini and the grand mufti of jerusalem. this is the respectable culture that is articulated here. there are some interesting things to report in the minute and a half i have left. i quote: the worrying situation currently prevailing in iraq is an additional factor of destabilization in the middle east, and makes the prospects for a concrete peace all the more urgent. i'm sorry to hear that. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter. the middle east was more balanced then! but let's move on. here's the interesting thing. after three years of the intifada, 60 percent of palestinians live on less than two dollars a day. two dollars a day, my dear colleague, is what your cap, your europe, gives for any quadruped born between finland and southern sicily. here you offer peace: i have no work, but i have no dignity. i agree with the honourable member who has just finished speaking. the undp, which is somewhat familiar with this, has posed a problem: the right to democracy. the people of israel choose; you don't like his choices, and i don't like them either: you want to take it away? we want democracy for the palestinians, but for whom? you want elections now, like the one in cambodia, which you are ashamed to have applauded; and now there are assassins, just as we predicted. i apologize, mr president, for taking up a few more seconds, but i know, and not from today, that i work in a parliament that is descended directly from vichy, with some small echoes of the parliaments of the european far east: you know what i'm talking about.
mr president, i thank mr menendez del valle very much, and i thank all the members of the committee who worked together to draw up this document, which comes from a european culture, yes, but from a european culture which is perhaps the renaissance and other things, certainly not the one we were talking about earlier. i have the impression that the sleep of reason, as goya said, produces monsters, and sometimes i hear among us these monsters, who are actually the dehumanization of man and the person. i feel in my heart the inability to understand the suffering of others, the inability to understand that time is short and that, while we have been discussing for months, for years, what solutions to adopt, in reality in palestine and israel people continue to die. the inhumanity i feel here is that one does not understand the daily suffering of living under military occupation, the injustice that children experience. of course, we talk about the pain and suffering of israeli children who are killed by human bombs, but for god's sake, we must stop and start looking at things as they are. there are un resolutions that remain unheeded. we start thinking about these things and experiencing them, seeing people, going to places and understanding. that's why i say that the sleep of reason produces monsters. i very much agree with the report, which is very important, it very clearly reaffirms the rejection of violence, but it also reaffirms with equal clarity the right to live in peace, to build. the time is short, and i believe that two initiatives are extremely important. today we had naomi kazan and jamal zakut, we'll have yossi beilin and yasser abed rabbo. i think these are the brave ones, the ones who have the courage to say, we build, we operate, we plan. as brave as all those israeli voices are and they are the ones we need to listen to like the pilots who refuse to go bombing. this is extremely important. there's one problem that's very serious: the wall. mr poettering said the same thing in the last part-session: the wall is a disgrace. the wall destroys, but above all it is annexation of territory. you can't annex territory and colonize, and then want peace. peace can only be achieved through mutual respect. we are making a strong gesture with this report, and i think we must continue in this direction.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report i am about to present concerns the commission's proposal for a council directive on compensation to victims of crime. this initiative follows the green paper on compensation for victims of crime, with which the commission started to promote the debate on this subject in september 2001, which was the subject of a report i had the honour to draw up a year ago and of a resolution by this parliament. on several occasions, in the debates in this house on the subject of justice and the fight against crime, a european-level justice system has emerged which focuses almost exclusively - and i would say quite rightly - on punishment, punishment and repression. only in a secondary way does this system also deal with the rehabilitation and social reintegration of prisoners and, more generally, with the policy of preventing crime. the taillight of this list is unfortunately the victims of crime: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind. this is why the protection of victims must also be at the heart of the debate on justice. the most urgent problem to be solved is the existence of wide disparities between national compensation systems, of enormous differences in the way and extent of compensation in each individual member state. this cannot be considered compatible with the principles underlying the creation of a single area of freedom, justice and security. much progress has been made during the year. the european union has identified the possible objectives to be pursued, identified the difficulties linked to the different legal codes of the member states, assessed the type of needs of the victim of crime and established the common minimum measures applicable. but the most awaited and significant progress is the will now to adopt a binding legislative strategy, at community level, to actually fulfil the political objectives of tampere. this directive will make it possible to take a first step towards harmonising european criminal law in the treatment of victims of crime, by ensuring that they receive appropriate attention, recognition of the support they need and reparation for the damage suffered, even when the offender has not been identified, is missing or is insolvent, while fully respecting the principle of subsidiarity. the identification of common categories for the concepts of victim of crime, of the beneficiary of compensation where the victim has died and of common payment methods and formalities therefore constitutes the minimum legislative basis which the european union is duly called upon to provide, so that it no longer appears that the amount of compensation or the very possibility of obtaining it must depend on the place of residence or the place where the crime was committed. to this end, while agreeing in substance with everything proposed by the commission, it was decided to add, in comparison with the original text, a more explicit description of the type of damage to be compensated and the time allowed for compensation. the minimum amount of exclusion from compensation was specified; the commission has proposed that, in order to avoid linguistic difficulties, harmonised forms and, where appropriate, translations should be provided in a language which the victim can understand. the priority objective is to guarantee the fundamental principle of non-discrimination for all citizens and legal residents in the union and to limit, as far as possible, the consequences and suffering of those who, having suffered unjust harm, are again victims when they are denied support by inadequate or sometimes non-existent compensation systems. i would like to conclude, mr president, by thanking my colleagues who have contributed to the success of this work.
- the report (a5-0341/2003) by mrs stihler, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation establishing measures to restore cod stocks (com (2003) 130 - 2003/2104 (ini)).
- this debate is over. the vote will take place at 11 a.m. we now move to the vote.
mr commissioner, you have heard the concerns of my colleagues here, and i would now like to make a simple observation. the historical imbalance between continental and mediterranean production demanded a different approach: we are faced with reforms of mediterranean production following the failure of cancún and in the run-up to enlargement. we are increasingly concerned that these two processes may put our mediterranean products under even more unsustainable pressure. the concerns about tobacco are very serious, even though everyone must accept the principle of health protection which is the european union's own. however, such drastic measures in view of the economic and social upheavals and the consequence of bringing in 100 per cent of foreign tobacco imports certainly suggest greater caution. i would like to concentrate my thoughts on one of the three productions we are discussing, because i think it is also a forced match. each of these productions is in fact special and would have deserved something different from equal horizontal treatment. i am referring in particular to olive oil. the criterion of quantitative support for production is certainly to be reduced. i would like to point out, however, that this seasoning is increasing the possibilities of consumption throughout the world and that, as a health-promoting ingredient, it is in ever-increasing demand. so i think we have two big problems: ensure a safety net for income and encourage quality policies. we shall discuss these policies in the light of the legislative proposal. you are right to refer to the decisions of the national states, but we must also take account of certain general criteria, such as employment. i would like to ask you a question: how can the quality incentive of this product be reconciled with the persistent possibility of olive oil being mixed with other fatty substances? it is this possibility of mixing that causes a vertical fall in prices and a blow to farmers.
mr president, i too share the concern expressed by many colleagues in this house and beyond about the survey itself and how it was organised. i hope that the political groups and the commission will be able to give us further clarification because if europe is to count, if it is to play a leading role in foreign policy, it must certainly act with greater caution. when you ask questions, it is good to know how you ask them, why you ask them and, above all, once you have the results, it would be right and proper not to first make them known to the press and to a certain press but to make them known to parliament and to public opinion as a whole. i would also like to make a brief statement about what happened yesterday in my country, namely a serious attack on a carabinieri barracks. the track is an anarcho-insurrectionist track, which also links to events in spain, where some italian terrorists or pseudoterrorists are detained. i believe that all of us europeans must be mobilized because terrorism is not a threat to be underestimated, even if the results of police action, including the italian police who arrested some dangerous murderers - or at least those accused of the biagi and d'antona murders - are positive signs. the mobilization for which i am calling on this parliament must be a united mobilization to combat this worrying phenomenon throughout europe.
let me return to the question of the eurobarometer survey for a moment. i think it is appropriate for this parliament to hear what the commission has to say and not to hear it from the press and the journalists. it is our prerogative that the commission - in the person of president prodi or another commissioner - should come and explain to us the reasons for the conception of this survey, which has been reported on all the pages of the newspapers - and rightly so - and which has certainly given a bad, if not a bad, image of our european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since august 12, the day of his abduction, dr. arjan erkel has not been heard from, nor do we know what happened to him. he was abducted from mukala in dagestan and nothing was done to free him. i think that the european parliament and the european union must take action not only to obtain information and demand his release but also to defend the institutions that work with volunteers in areas where health care is absolutely deplorable.
mr president, i would like to remind you that on 2 july 2003 the italian presidency undertook before this parliament to present the moratorium on the death penalty to the united nations general assembly. this commitment was supported on 23 october by a resolution adopted unanimously by this parliament. today we are hearing from the press that the italian government has decided not to submit the resolution to the un. i would ask you, mr president, to convey to the presidency our disappointment and to maintain paragraph 3 of our resolution, which in any case provided for a discussion of the results and the evaluation. although these are, i think, very critical, there is still a debate to be had.
mr president, as the commissioner said, because poland is the largest accession country, it obviously has the most problems and the most serious concerns. would it be fair to say, as many people in poland say, that – in some cases at least – part of the problem concerning the integrated administration and control system lies with brussels delaying the spending on the final requirements for the system? would it be fair to say that?
mr president, i listened carefully to the president-in-office's statements, which were based on general guidelines which i think are acceptable, but i prefer to dwell on some specific points, also because president antonioni has asked for the support of the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on 21 october, a meeting of the constitutional committee was held with the participation of the italian foreign minister, representing the presidency. i would like to draw the attention of mr antonioni and the house to two points: we are firmly in favour of maintaining a significant point, an important innovation in the draft convention, namely the legislative council, the concentration of the european parliament's legislative function in the council. president. - mr antonio, i have received a request from the commission to take a decision on the matter. i repeat my doubts about this approach as well: you can't just count. i sometimes even get the impression that 28 governments are counted, when only 25 are entitled to speak, because three are merely observers. in short, the convention was a process of analysis, discussion, search for solutions, discussion in favour of or against each solution and, finally, compromise. it is unacceptable that the intergovernmental conference should be limited to the 'no' and 'yes' counts. president antonioni has made a commitment - which i appreciate is significant - to keep the matter open. i'm not sure what that means in evolutionary terms, but we insist that this point not be erased. second point: the procedure for the revision of the treaties. president antonione did not speak of it today, but minister frattini, before our committee, undertook to study a possible italian proposal to go beyond the text, which was not agreed in the convention and is therefore not binding on any party. we risk the paradox that on matters resolved in the convention by compromise the debate is reopened from scratch, and on matters which have not been the subject of an agreement in the convention it cannot be discussed, as it is the case with the revision procedure. i do not know whether the italian presidency intends to include this question in the overall proposal for the third week of november. we reiterate our firm commitment to fight for this. finally, mr antonione did not mention the question raised by mr méndez de vigo: it is unacceptable that sectoral formations of the council of ministers should amend the text of the convention. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner barnier has given us a very gloomy picture of the situation, demonstrating the concern of the commission, which many share, about the way things are going. he said: but it is not the commission's fault, it is certainly not the fault of the italian presidency, it is certainly not the fault of the convention and, perhaps, even less so than parliament's. then i 'd like to know whose fault it is: what about estonia? from poland? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper way. commissioner barnier, is it not possible that we are all a little guilty of having taken this matter in such an unambitious way that, evidently, once the book was opened, once the possibility was opened - starting with the commission - of saying that the convention was not right on this or that point, everyone rushed to do exactly what the commission did first on a text which, probably, being the lowest common denominator, certainly carried the risk that, once the doors were opened, everyone would try to amend it for the worse? the truth is we missed the nice meeting; we missed our appointment in amsterdam; we have, i think, missed the maastricht meeting; we have missed the opportunity which this parliament once called for and then forgot to stress that the famous deepening was needed first, the deepening before enlargement, remember? and today's debate shows how far we are from the hopes of the beginning of the italian presidency which this parliament expressed in september. i now wonder whether, given the way things are going, it would not be appropriate for the italian presidency to assess the situation carefully. it is true that you have made a number of commitments, but you also made a commitment to bring the moratorium to the united nations, and yesterday it was said that there would be no such act. you have made a commitment to close the semester with a commitment to the convention, but the italian presidency - italy, the founding country - has obligations towards itself, towards its history. if we are to go down a downward text, in my view the least the italian presidency should do is to avoid ending with a messy text, a text which would do worse to the interests of the union than what it could achieve as a result. if that is the case, then, without a high, strong project capable of overcoming great resistance, a federalist project, along the lines proposed by altiero spinelli almost 20 years ago in this parliament, without a strong vision to inspire, it is clear that, in the small things, everyone is rowing against it. we radicals will be holding a conference on this subject on the 13th and 14th, hoping that, on the basis of a reflection that many people can have in that and other places, we can arrive at a position where parliament is able to reject a text if the negotiations should really go so badly.
commission. mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr hernández mollar, for his excellent report. the commission shares his view about the crucial importance of setting common minimum standards on procedural safeguards. this is vital to ensure the mutual trust which forms the basis of the measures set out in the mutual recognition programme of which the european arrest warrant was the first to reach political agreement. a common set of minimum standards on safeguards is necessary to ensure that the fundamental rights of european union citizens are respected in an equivalent way in the 25 member states. a proposal for a framework decision is planned by the commission as a follow-up measure to the green paper if the main ideas that we have put forward deserve the support of this parliament. a measure of this sort was envisaged at the tampere european council, hence the references to protecting the rights of individuals. this measure does not, in fact, go further than the already existing provisions – the european convention on human rights and the vienna convention on consular relations. it will highlight what is seen at eu level as essential for a fair trial and it will make mutual recognition measures operate more smoothly, since member states will be more willing to accept that other member states have proper safeguards in place. regarding the recommendation made by the rapporteur to include provisions governing other fundamental rights such as the right to bail, or rules on the admissibility of evidence, the commission explains in the green paper that these two very important areas will indeed be the subject of separate measures of their own in order to do them justice. the work on the right to bail, which also covers detention conditions, forms the subject matter of a measure in the mutual recognition programme and will be more appropriately dealt with as a single issue. i can even tell the honourable members of the house that the commission has presented a questionnaire to the member states on this specific issue. we have received the first answers and we will be presenting a first evaluation of these to the justice and home affairs council, which will meet tomorrow morning here in brussels. a communication on the subject is included in the commission's work programme for 2003. in the work programme for this year, there is also a green paper on the approximation, execution and recognition of criminal sanctions in the european union. this is designed to ensure equality of treatment for convicted persons throughout the european union so that, for example, those sentenced in a member state other than their own are not discriminated against by virtue of their foreign nationality. regarding fairness in handling evidence, this area is too vast to be covered in a green paper that already proposes several rights, as does the current one. the commission therefore decided to devote more time to this topic and conduct a specific study as soon as the first stage of the procedural safeguard work was complete. the commission has now started work on a study of safeguards on fairness in the gathering and handling of evidence. this will cover, inter alia, the right to silence, the right to hear witnesses, the problem of anonymous witnesses, the right to disclosure of exculpatory evidence, how the presumption of innocence is to be understood, whether there are circumstances where the burden of proof may be reversed, and many other aspects of the law of evidence. this is one of the most complex issues in penal law. regarding the ne bis in idem principle, an initiative tabled by the former greek presidency is currently being discussed in the appropriate council bodies and, once again, the justice and home affairs council will discuss this greek initiative tomorrow. finally, on the questions of the conditions of prisoners in the european union, the commission recently prepared and sent a questionnaire on this issue to the competent authorities of the member states. the replies to this questionnaire are now arriving and are a useful source of information which is being taken into account in the process of preparation of the two green papers mentioned on pre-trial detention and approximation, mutual recognition and enforcement of sanctions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. i am speaking to stress the importance of this green paper and to congratulate commissioner vitorino on the contribution he has made to the construction of a legal area of freedom and justice. i also thank mr mollar for having accepted the opinion of the committee on legal affairs, which we have given with great care, great debate and great awareness. he has just said that we must insist on waiting for a substantial criminal right through the criminal procedure, because it is the system for giving guarantees, for having what we call the minimum of reliability and guarantee. the opinion of the legal affairs committee was given to emphasize and underline the guarantees of freedom for the accused. we are aware that this is how institutions are defined, that legal civilization prevails, that the rule of law prevails, and that these guarantees are the precondition and the criterion for a fair trial, which is the subject of so much discussion and which i believe is the mirage we must have at the procedural level. the green paper is a correction, commissioner vitorino, a very important correction in relation to the undemocratic tendencies which would prefer investigative powers, and only investigative powers, even if in a supranational form. the european public prosecutor for the criminal protection of fraud is an example of this observation, which i have already made on other occasions, in this house and in other debates. all the rules are the same as those already mentioned, but the right to an immediate defence, the right to be able to have assistance, the guarantee of language and other similar issues form the substance of this measure, which i would like to stress once again. not only coordination and cooperation between member states, but the final recognition of final decisions in criminal matters, i believe is the feature which we must emphasize and for which the committee on legal affairs is working. in conclusion, mr president, we must take the protection of rights to a higher level and not to a lower one. we must therefore take account of the guarantees that some member states give and orientate towards that dimension and those prerogatives the attitude and behaviour that europe as a whole must have. this is what the europe of rights and the europe of freedoms demand.
mr president, i believe that the motion for a resolution contained in the report by mr hernández mollar is an important addition to the commission's green paper on procedural guarantees, thanks also to the contribution of the numerous amendments from all the political groups. i would therefore like to thank president hernández mollar for the work he has done. as i said, it is an important enrichment, not only because the resolution contains a strong encouragement for the adoption of a framework decision on common minimum standards, and not only because it also contains the critical indication of the chapters still missing, as the commission itself acknowledges, for the construction of a comprehensive system of common minimum guarantees laying down the basic european rights to a fair criminal trial. the list of those rights should be extended to include issues relating to the admissibility and evaluation of evidence, the criteria for pretrial detention, the same conditions of detention, and the right to appeal, which is particularly important in matters of personal liberty. the main contribution of the motion for a resolution is to identify in detail the specific content of the rights already covered by the green paper: legal assistance and counselling, which must be free of charge for those who need it and provided by experienced professionals; ensuring adequate and complete interpretation for those who speak a different language; the right to consular assistance, to adequate protection for vulnerable persons, especially but not only minors. the proposal for a written statement of the rights of the person being investigated and the person being accused, to be submitted at the first contact with the authorities responsible, which must be detailed and drawn up in several languages, is also innovative and of particular interest. we are well aware that all member states are bound to respect the european convention on human rights and that the strasbourg court, with its elaborate case law, monitors compliance with it. but it's not enough. the irreducible diversity of legal systems, procedures and traditions themselves raises concerns which have a negative impact on the confidence which european citizens must be able to have in the judicial systems of the member states if, in an area without internal frontiers, the necessary cooperation based on the mutual recognition of judicial decisions of the different countries is to be developed. it is therefore necessary and urgent, in order to guarantee both the freedom and the security of citizens, that common minimum standards be introduced to set, at european level, the high standards of procedural guarantees which europe is proud to ensure to all those citizens and non-citizens who come into contact with its judicial systems. i therefore announce that my group will vote in favour of the hernández mollar report.
mr president, on the eve of the entry into force of the european arrest warrant, parliament is giving its opinion on a communication from the european commission on procedural guarantees and the rights of the defence. the framework decision announced in this connection, despite your efforts, commissioner, has not yet been formally presented and the council, during its first discussions, was extremely divided on the need and content of a harmonisation of the rights of the defence. that is the context in which we are moving, and in that context i would like to point out the position taken by the italian minister of justice who, after personally approving the european arrest warrant in the council, said that he considered it - and i quote - 'technically unconstitutional and fundamentally wrong'. i believe that these serious allegations could not have been justified, either legally or politically, if the commission and the council had listened to what parliament had asked for in the matter of the harmonization of procedural rights. unfortunately, however, it is too late and the arrest warrant will come into force in a european context of reluctance and delay in implementation in the member states. despite the good work of president hernández mollar, and the strong comments made by the chairman of the committee on legal affairs, mr gargani, the radical members will make their vote conditional on the adoption of the amendments which call for the entry into force of the arrest warrant to be made conditional on the adoption of procedural guarantees.
- the agenda calls for the commission's statement on the employment prospects of the automotive sector in the union.
mr president, the argument that ford made its own choices in terms of restructuring on political grounds seems to me to be extremely risky. italy is a country with a large car manufacturer, which is italian and has restructuring policies, and it necessarily does them in italy. the problem is, as has been said, that the car market is a mature market; the production of cars has gradually moved to many countries, particularly in the far east, and probably many of my colleagues have also bought korean or japanese cars or perhaps even indian cars. the problem is that companies need to restructure because the market is changing and there is a need for more competitiveness in the sector. i don't think it's profitable for us to debate the merits of the choices that individual companies make; in my view, these choices should be left to the firms themselves, in the interests of the competitiveness of the system and long-term employment: it is useless to think that you can keep a job today when you risk losing it tomorrow. what we can do is to guarantee much more than the institutions do today; much more than the european commission which now devotes its budget to agriculture and declining sectors rather than innovative sectors has done so far; the commission has also been active in the field of education and training. we need jobs and we cannot expect them to come from declining sectors which need to be restructured. we are creating the conditions for the workforce to be in the sectors of the future and not the past.
- the commission does not allocate funds; the commission follows the decisions of governments concerning agriculture and other sectors.
mr president, i have a personal matter to attend to, given your very courteous invitation. i can assure you that i am aware of the institutional responsibilities of the european institutions in relation to the budget. my appeal was to the budget, to the commission, but not just to the commission. the aim, however, is to reformulate the european budget.
- i was absolutely certain that you were fully aware of the functioning of the institutions. i was providing information to our visitors, our guests, not to you, mr. della vedova.
- the next item is the oral question (b5-0412/2003) by mr bouwman, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, to the commission, on the mid-term review of the social policy agenda.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a brief statement on the iivari report, to thank mrs iivari and to say that i voted in favour of this report with all my heart. it has now provided clarity and the conditions for the necessary resources to be used in a number of cases, in particular as regards the european office for lesser spoken languages and mercator, a subject which is very close to my heart personally - as, of course, are the other subjects covered in this report - but in particular. i believe that the european parliament has been consistent and has been leading the way in this respect in recent times, and i hope that the european commission, as it has tried to bring clarity here, will continue to do so in the future through the action plan for languages and the corresponding further commitment, as requested by the european parliament.
mr president, i should like to return, if only briefly, to the massacres which have bled europe, and not only europe, this past week. i think it is right to express our strongest condemnation of terrorism and of these incidents. i would like to pay particular tribute to the 19 italian victims of the massacre in nassiriya. it is important that tomorrow the president of parliament expresses our solidarity with the victims and their families, but i think it is also appropriate to thank all the armed forces of all the european countries who are currently engaged in peace missions throughout the world. finally, i hope that this parliament will make a strong commitment to implementing ever stronger policies to combat terrorism, because the signal that the european parliament must send is that all the peoples of europe will not be intimidated by these vile attacks.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are now at the end of the european year of disabled people, which will end in rome on 5 december under the italian presidency, and it is the president-in-office of the european union who, in his opening speech to the european semester, gave what i regard as a strong, historic signal to social policies relating to disabled people. he explicitly stated that the eu presidency would work to lay the foundations for legislative action against discrimination; in practice, a directive that protects independence and equal rights in all aspects of daily life for millions of disabled people in the new europe, ensuring them a real future of hope. however, the commission has not yet provided a timetable for a future horizontal directive on the rights of persons with disabilities, which would cover not only work but all areas of life, nor has it made any specific commitments to mainstreaming the rights of persons with disabilities into policy, as was stressed in the latest communication, which seems to be a rather good-intentioned statement. in fact, it is not clear how the objective of promoting equal opportunities can be reconciled if such opportunities are only valid for certain aspects of life, such as work. let us take a few examples: the commission, with the employment directive, aims at full employment for people with disabilities as a contribution to eliminating discrimination. this is right and proper, but how can we enter the labour market today and aim for a job of value and quality if, for example, adequate education, training and education are not provided for people with disabilities? integration, as you can see, starts from afar, indeed it must start in school. people with disabilities are not divided into sectors or compartments, but are girls, boys, men and women who have the right to full and non-sectoral integration: the fact that thousands of disabled boys and girls in europe are still in institutions and not, for example, with their families is proof of this. the method of coordination could also be of help, but it is not mentioned enough in the communication. finally, i would say that the european year certainly ends with a discreetly positive budget for the objectives of raising awareness on the subject of disability, which was set. what was lacking, i believe, was a particular and decisive action by the commission, which did not respond with determination to the strong and convinced urging of parliament and the invitations of the council presidency. i would like to conclude by inviting president prodi, through the commissioner, to do a little more and better, even if at the end of the commission's term of office, in particular on a subject of such great human, social and cultural importance, namely disability.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. mr president, i would like to make two comments, one moral and one legal, in order to intervene in this debate on such a sensitive subject, finding a connection between the two issues. embryos are fully human lives: this is a fact which has become established and to which we wish to refer with all our strength. the charter of fundamental rights of nice recognises the dignity of these rights physical integrity and mental integrity and there is therefore a moral duty to protect embryos as human life, regardless of how they were procreated. it follows that experimentation is justified only if it is carried out in the interests of the individual and of the subjects concerned, and that there is no balance, no balancing act which can be regarded as a balancing of interests between the matter concerning the individual, the fundamental rights of the individual and those of society. it goes beyond this kind of balancing because the protection of inalienable rights and fundamental rights is clearly paramount. there can therefore be no destructive experimentation and, consequently, no public funding for experimentation which merely supports the view that embryos are a collection of cells without intrinsic value, without any bioethical relevance to human life. stem cells, on the other hand, can be taken, as has been said or heard, from the umbilical cord or from spontaneous fetuses of adult cells in order to intervene in serious diseases. so, moral responsibility is tied to this kind of investigation, to this kind of therapy. but it is not just a question of morality. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the union respects national identity, so i am pleased to hear from the rapporteur that we do not infringe on national legislation or cultural diversity. community law takes precedence over national law and thus over the fundamental law of the member states. there can be no community law, which also prevails in many other areas, in all areas of the general law, because it has a limit, as the constitutional courts of italy, germany and many other countries have said repeatedly, because those fundamental rights must be respected and have a primacy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am speaking in this house to support this view.
mr president, i appreciated the extraordinary work and the plastic intelligence of our rapporteur, mr peter liese, who, from a rather rigid position, tried to reach, in agreement not only with myself but with the whole ppe-de group, a compromise that was as balanced as possible on such a delicate subject, with strong ethical values, as the use of human embryos and human embryonic stem cells in research projects under the sixth framework programme. as a researcher, i can certainly only be in favour of the progress of science, in the primary interest of patients who for years have placed their hope in new technologies for the cure, as has been said, and the control of disabling and sometimes irreversible diseases, such as parkinson's disease, spinal cord injuries that can lead to paraplegia, tetraplegia, alzheimer's disease and so on. that is why i would like to thank commissioner philippe busquin for his enormous effort in seeking a compromise, which is certainly not easy. i should like to say that recently, also at the specific request of the italian ministry of scientific research, the national committee on bioethics, chaired by professor francesco d'agostino, concluded that it was ethically acceptable to derive stem cells for therapeutic purposes from embryos that are no longer suitable for implantation. the decision we are going to have to take in this house concerns only the financing of the sixth framework programme, and therefore covers a fairly short period of time. i have good reason to believe, however, that the amendment approved by the committee on industry and scientific research, which provides for the funding of research involving the use of surplus embryos, will not be accepted unanimously by the council, at the risk of a minority block and of an extension of the current state of the moratorium. this would create even more damage to public research in europe, maintaining the current state of uncertainty and lack of regulation. that's why i've developed a new compromise proposal, to find a moment of synthesis between scientific requirements and ethical principles: my proposal, which was tabled by the epp-ed group, on the one hand prohibits funding for research projects involving the use of surplus human embryos, but on the other hand allows researchers to use, at experimental level, human embryonic stem cells and stem cell lines already available in laboratories and which were taken from surplus embryos before 27 june 2002. i think that only in this way can researchers be allowed to carry out preliminary comparative investigations, which are essential for the future use or non-use of embryonic stem cells. that is why i hope that the vote tomorrow in this house will be dominated by reason and not by emotion or prejudice, in the best interests of patients' health.
mr president, i find it a little paradoxical that there have been colleagues like mr hyland who have accused those who are in favour of unblocking funding for scientific research on embryonic stem cells, and who would like to impose a scientific model on europe, the european union and this parliament. what is happening in europe, with the national laws of some member states, is exactly the opposite, namely that prejudices based on ethical reasons are hindering research for all citizens and not just for those who, for ethical reasons, want to be excluded from that research and its results. the european commission is proposing a compromise which, for scientific reasons, is already something on the edge of the acceptable: the european commission excludes from union funding those for so-called therapeutic cloning. but why, if these funds can - how can they really - represent hope for treatment and life - i say hope, not certainty, because here we, unlike other colleagues, do not have scientific certainty for millions of people in europe? the european commission has already been forced to make the ethical and moral compromises you call them and to abandon this type of financing. well, it's bad, but enough of this. the limits must not be exceeded; there is no scientific reason to justify further limitations. the amendments also state as regards the date: the stem cells is the proposal of mr nisticò must have been derived before 27 june 2002. but why?! what is the ethical reason why we should use older, scientifically inferior embryos? and in fact, you don't give us the scientific reason! the reason you give us, that is, why we should not produce new embryos, is a purely and simply ridiculous reason, because any scientist will confirm to you that such a problem does not exist. if scientific research were allowed, there would be no problem in obtaining embryos, nor would there be any need to produce them on purpose. there are tens of thousands in italy, i imagine hundreds of thousands in europe, embryos that have been frozen and for which there is only one alternative: scientific research on one side, trash on the other. does the chairman of the committee on legal affairs, mr gargani, consider that the embryo is a human being? so, for that human embryo, you want to choose garbage over scientific research? mr gargani, go and try to save these hundreds of thousands of lives frozen in laboratory refrigerators! science has nothing to do with it. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. the aim of this study is to compare adult cell research with stem cell research. we, the anti-ban on scientific research, unlike you, do not know whether research on adult cells or embryonic cells will come first. we do not know, and we do not pretend to know, nor do we pretend to tell this parliament that one research is better than another: are both positive. let us continue with both types of research and the first that will be able to save the lives of european and world citizens will be good research. we don't have that scientific claim; it's a good thing you don't have it either! we hope that the italian presidency of the european union, which has been so respectful of the union's positions in its lack of courage in proposing a moratorium on executions, will now, having followed this method, do the same for scientific research and not boycott the busquin proposal. so let's open up funding for therapeutic cloning! (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, there is a fundamental reason why we are also confronted with some heated moments on this subject. it would be very easy to invoke legal grounds. many colleagues have already expressed the underlying theme: can the european union, with great difficulty, take on an initiative which is not shared by all the member states of the union? this would be one of many ways to use - if i may be allowed the term - a hypocritical attitude on the issue. there is a fundamental problem on this issue that politics cannot solve: politics is the art of the possible, it is certainly the art of compromise, but compromise on fundamental values is impossible. so on this, with respect for the positions of all my colleagues, with respect for the positions expressed by the commission, all the attempts that have been made so far are aimed at opening the door to a method, and the method is to be able to intervene on the principle of life. for some it is a path that is absolutely possible, for others it is a path that, for certain fundamental values, is not possible. this is why, in my view, none of the attempts at compromise that have been made - praise the intelligence, skill and capacity of colleagues - have reached their ultimate goal. i would like to draw attention to the first stage, the moment we are facing, which is extremely important because it is always the treatment of certain degenerative diseases. let's think about what happens the moment we decide to intervene on life: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and these are all eugenics-related issues. we're going the same way as the atom: we've come to the atomic bomb, and now we need rules to get back in. at this point, then, on a subject like this, which is still much more complex and much more delicate, perhaps some further reflection should be done.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for this report, which is also very technical. we will give our full support in terms of expenditure, so much so that i myself have sent a letter jointly signed by myself, as vice-chairman of the committee on budgets, and the chairman of the committee on budgets, in which we agree with the commission's proposal on ida, as regards the increase in the ceiling on funding. what was the basis for this? it has been said that 10% is a symbolic act, while raising it to 30% becomes a concrete fact, by which people understand that europe is something close and not far away, and this is especially true for networks. on the other hand, i would like to make a comment on networks in general, since i am the rapporteur on this subject. i think that for transeuropean networks in general, the increase is important. we started at 10 percent. we got to 20 on the first reading, and now we're talking about 30 percent. it's a relevant fact. i think, however, that the tens report should also be amended to include the possibility of a reduced rate. and this is for all the works that are part of the tens, in all the sectors, including telecommunications, including lida, to give the possibility to the states to do all this on the territory where they have problems with local authorities. i think this is something that can streamline the procedure and allow for more and more funding to reach the territory. i would add the so-called e-rewarding, which we already see as a document on this subject and which in future will highlight good and bad states, but above all will allow us to intervene where necessary to use the funds. finally, i would say that i certainly do not agree with the so-called quick short list, as it goes against the procedures of the treaties. it is not the commission's responsibility to deal with this, but rather the council, ecofin and the european parliament.
mr president, my group also shares the pain and the shock over the tragic events of the past few days. it was illusory to think that peace and democracy could come miraculously from a wrong war. the middle east reminds us every day that it is also because of the inability of the international community to find real cohesion that peace and democracy seem to be more and more distant today. the president began his speech today with a note of optimism about the economic situation and told us that the goal of a greater europe, able to respond to the challenges of our time, was within reach. i agree, but i fear that in some cases the proposed recipes are affected by a rather conformist political and economic conception, which does not put at the centre what is the most innovative and the most daring that the union can do today. i can assure you, mr poettering, that the logic of the work programme is exactly the same as that of president prodi's manifesto. since we like to do politics and consider ourselves a genuinely european political force, our views apply mutatis mutandis to both documents. the commission itself admits that it has pursued only the economic aspects of the lisbon strategy. president prodi, that is not enough! we fear that the politically correct concept of sustainable growth is concealed by the concept of continuous growth. in practice and in the existing instruments, the environmental dimension continues to remain a kind of cinderella. as you know, we think the initiative for growth is very important, but we are not able to catch the general enthusiasm for the lists of roads, airports and high-speed trains, to be paid for with billions, mostly still virtual. a very important point for us is the absolute need for greater transparency in the criteria for financing the european investment bank and for greater involvement of the european parliament in the definition of these criteria. we are not convinced by the commission's persistent unwillingness to launch an energy efficiency plan that stops looking at nuclear. in short, what we lack today is a convincing framework for investment in technologies that are resource-efficient and focus on social cohesion, education and innovation. if we add to this the delay in the commission's presentation of its proposals on the reform of the structural funds, we cannot but have some doubts about the union's ability to respond in time to the challenges of growth and enlargement. the success of the growth initiative also requires an intelligent application of the stability pact, on which we would like to hear your opinion again, mr president, and a serious programme for compliance with the kyoto protocol. without a clear change of course by the majority of member states, the union will not be able to meet its obligations. a few months ago, mr president, we proposed to you that you launch a climate stability pact, but unfortunately we never received a reply. with just a few weeks to go until the start of cop9 in milan, we would like to bring this proposal to you once again. just as with the deficit issue, it is the commission's responsibility to call to order those member states - in particular spain, italy and portugal - which will not allow us to meet the kyoto targets at this stage. we are missing some items from your legislative programme. i don't have time to go into all of them, but i want to mention two. the european parliament has been calling for almost two years, commissioner reding, in a truly united way, for a proposal for a directive or at least a green paper on the question of media concentration and freedom of information. from reading your manifesto, we know you care about this issue. why is the commission then unable to do anything about this? finally , it is a couple of months since the cancún failure, but what conclusions and what lines of action the commission intends to follow remains absolutely a mystery, and we also lack the link with the achievement of the millennium goals, commissioner lamy. finally, the question of eurostat. president prodi, you said that you had learned a number of lessons from the eurostat affair, but there is one very important lesson missing from your text: the commission must listen more to parliament. the recommendations in the discharge reports are not friendly suggestions but acts which oblige the commission to act and to act in time. we have gone from a passive commission to a reactive commission, and we acknowledge that. now you have one year to make yourself capable of decisive action. we welcome the reform of the code of conduct and the improvement of the communication between olaf, commissioners and dgs and we also welcome - you will not be surprised - the recognition of the role of whistleblowers. many of these proposals had already been withdrawn by parliament. we would remind you, however, mr president, that transparency is a good way not only to combat fraud but also to prevent it, and i really hope that next year, by welcoming new members not only with open arms but also with open and transparent institutions, we will forget what has happened in these years. in conclusion, however, mr president, i would like to say on behalf of my group that your report still lacks the sensitivity and awareness of a certain sense of responsibility and acceptance of the mistakes made. as you yourself have acknowledged, there were signs before may 2003: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i do not know who will appreciate the condolences from this parliament for the murder of italian soldiers and iraqi civilians. those who died know that they were murdered for the same reasons as their american and british colleagues and comrades, and for the same reasons as those who are in istanbul with a vile, double, triple europe, which generally needs the size of istanbul for an israeli to have the same human rights as a palestinian, the same human rights as someone who is in the good graces of this vichy europe, of this half-pacifist europe, of this europe of our parliament of which this morning, at this moment, we are not even a tenth: you count fifty-eight not even a tenth of the elect. but it's right, because this is a ballot, and it's a party-cratic ballot; this is a europe that has no merit if condolences are received, because they are condolences made out of objective solidarity, against bush for saddam, always, continuously, on all events. mr president of the commission, i am reading your speech, entitled 'the state of the union'. it reminds us of something: i think the state of the union speech is being made by the washington that your europe hates, as it hated it in the '39s and '40s, as it hated the demo-pluto-jewish-masonic-democracies in the '40s, as it hated doriot's france, not just pétain's, as it hated those who said: to die for danzig, to die for danzig! no, never, jamais! at the moment when, under the symbol of pacifism, the pact of murderous shame: munich; the european parliament has been a party to the holocaust, a party to the fascist, communist, fundamentalist and counter-reformist committees. the europe of reform, mr prodi? have patience . without the beautiful baroque of bernini, this is the europe of the counter-reformation, of the time when the pure perversion of the diplomacy of the pope king made dante alighieri shout, against that seat that exploited the history and the mission of christ for the dirtiest management of the world in the vatican then, but i still say today the loose whore. i quote dante, and i think it was something painful but timely. the state of the union, mr. president: the common position of all of you - parliament, council, commission - is that we should have a commission of 30 members, 35 soon, because we are the united states of europe. of course, the president of the united states should have about fifty ministers to function properly, no?! this is not what unites a europe that is the europe of the alternative, that of altiero spinelli, de gasperi, adenauer, and not that of ollenhauer or his other nationalist social democratic rival of the time. we have the state of the union. this union, mr prodi, is the one which funds all the dictatorships with which it has relations, which pursues a criminal policy. the articles 2, which are normally the basis of agreements with dictatorial countries, are all scrap paper. we have here in strasbourg the representatives of the real vietnam of tomorrow and of all time, we have the representatives of the unified buddhist church of vietnam, who are asking to see you. every day what happens in vietnam, in cambodia, in the whole world finds us, with solana or with others, as it found us for the former yugoslavia: the european parliament has been a party to the peace process, but it has also been a party to the conflict. the state of the union is miserable because it is the state of television europe, of munich, of fascism, of communism, of democratic and civil unworthiness. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, on behalf of my group i would like to express once again our solidarity with the victims of the massacre in nasiriyah, their families and all the european armed forces engaged in peace-keeping missions against terrorism throughout the world. i shall now concentrate on the eurostat case. there are too many unresolved issues in this case and too few remedial measures, which i take the liberty of judging to be late and therefore probably ineffective. my conviction was strengthened by the hearing of president prodi in the committee on budgetary control this morning: i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. as to the way the matter was handled: in the face of a president who makes transparency one of his main objectives, it is not understandable why in the eurostat case we have seen all sorts of attempts to conceal the documentation and avoid public debate, with an emphasis worthy of a state secret. too many questions, i said. is this trade-off against the eu over? and if it did, when exactly? this morning, the idea that the most serious events occurred before 1999 is being reiterated. what about the less serious events, as far as they occurred? are they still on the agenda? and, more importantly, what is the criterion for judging its seriousness? maybe the amount of the subtracted amount? i would like to point out that fraud is a serious offence in itself, and it is all the more serious and inadmissible when it concerns public officials. in addition: how was it possible for a fraudulent organisation to operate unhindered for years within the commission? are we really to believe that no one noticed anything, even though there were rumors, faxes and e-mails circulating in the commission offices about illegal profits and fraudulent contracts? again , please . the commission's monitoring system is not clear because, in addition to eurostat, many other scandals have been uncovered, such as the cereals price scandal. the most ridiculous admission, if not the most serious, is that the document presented this morning says - and i would draw your attention to this - that a new culture of accountability and transparency must be gradually established. what should we conclude from this? that the commission's normal practice so far is irresponsibility and lack of transparency? there is still something to be said about eurostat and the seriousness of the scandal surrounding it. this is not just another office, one of the many nodes of european bureaucracy: the european commission has recently published a report on the implementation of the stability pact. it therefore helps to determine the economic and financial policies of the member states and, in fact, to oblige the states to adopt austerity policies, which often result in budget cuts or welfare cuts. it is therefore an institution with a supervisory role, whose impartiality and authority cannot be in the least affected by the doubts and suspicions which surround it today. we realise that this is an embarrassing situation because public money has been used for illicit purposes; we also understand the embarrassment caused by the fact that the scandal broke at a sensitive time, on the eve of the european elections, enlargement and the constitution. we understand the embarrassment, but we can't compromise. we cannot endorse or even underestimate, as some would do, the incidents of corruption, fraud and malpractice. it is the citizens who are asking for intransigence, the same people we are asking to make sacrifices in the name of the stability pact. again , please . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we cannot let this pass unnoticed, especially at a time when the president of the commission is distributing a political manifesto - perhaps we should say an electoral manifesto - which describes the europe he dreams of, while forgetting to deal with the europe that already exists. that's all we need! it is legitimate for president prodi to want to stand for the next european elections, but in this case we consistently expect him to resign. on the other hand, the damage to the institutions would be serious and frankly unacceptable. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have before me the manifesto of president prodi: they're good ideas, maybe a little bit banal, maybe a little bit generic. i am not surprised that the president of the commission has drawn up a political document - he is still a man of parties - but it is unacceptable that he has addressed this manifesto to only one country and one political party. it would also be fair to say - and i say this - that in his position he should be putting his ideas into practice rather than expressing them. and the president of the commission: and he can do these things, he can activate them to become norms. as for the fact that i said that your manifesto was addressed to the whole of europe, i would like to disagree. i quote from it: it is in this perspective that, looking to italy and the elections next spring for the renewal of the european parliament, i proposed to all reformists ... and so on. then he clearly refers to the olive tree because he says: the inspiration, however, remains the one that was at the origin of the olive tree. it is therefore a partial speech, which is unacceptable in his position. if he says he has addressed the whole of europe, he has told us nothing but lies, also because i do not see that olive trees are born and grow in, for example, sweden and finland.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr representative of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree with mr salafranca's comments on eurostat and in this opinion i express the right need for a transparent response, which has been largely met by what the commission has done and by the action plan presented today. it is a serious matter that this matter is still being used as a political tool, magnifying an issue that is not central to the life of the union, while the tragedy in iraq is there to remind us once again of our inability to intervene and, in other words, of our hypocrisy in the face of a war which, born to fight terrorism, has only ended up feeding it. we're not there. we're not in the heart of the world. our time calls for a great political supplement, so that europe has a soul and ceases to be a wounded and helpless giant which some still want today in the grip of a bureaucratic neutrality: i would like to see a policy supplement like the one in the prodi document, which as a european citizen he addressed primarily to his own country, but which is valid for the whole of the union and for all political forces, and which also concerns the popular, mr poettering, the many christian democrats, whom you should also represent, who cannot resign themselves to any conservative drift.
mr president, mr president of the commission, all the political strategies presented are certainly very attractive, but in many cases they can be broken in the face of obstacles of varying difficulty if they are not supported by a reliable organisational and administrative structure. the enlargement to include the new countries, which we all wanted, encouraged and achieved, must be set in a solid and transparent context, so as not to create serious problems for the community's structures, which are already called upon to make a greater effort, and for the image of the european parliament and its credibility. that is why the priorities and the big choices must be given the right support by a europe that works, that is transparent and, above all, that is accountable for how the community's money is spent and used. the eurostat project does not work in this way. i regret that earlier mr procacci, without having read the olaf and audit reports, considered this a marginal fact; if you read these reports, you'll realize they're distressing. it is therefore the commission's task to strengthen the controls which have so far failed on all sides, by improving their implementation in such a way as to distinguish between monitoring and controls on the one hand and operational management, i.e. officials who give authorizations, on the other. the advisory committee on market transactions, which operated under the previous financial regulation, has also been abolished. however, it was found that many contracts were not subject to any rules of economic expediency, transparency and contractual legality, creating a sort of free zone which, even after 1999 or perhaps mainly after 1999, allowed the award of contracts with the participation of a single firm, often in conflict of interest and with contract closures without signature powers, creating a damage to the community's finances that is not easily quantifiable.
i would like to remind each of us of the role that the institutions should have and not to confuse the respective roles of the institutions. i say this because someone has spoken of president berlusconi, who, until proven otherwise, is the head of a government and as such has the right to make policy in his country. president prodi is appointed by the council and voted on by this parliament. we respect his position as president of the commission and we ask him to become president of the commission. i agree with what mr poettering and mr barón crespo have said, because the point of their speeches is the same: president prodi has the right to return to active politics as and when he wishes, but not as president of the european commission. the time of enlargement, the fight against terrorism, the difficulties we are facing every day in making our institutions clearer and more transparent to the citizens do not allow any of us to use europe as an instrument of domestic policy. i hope that the words spoken this morning were partly due to a particular emotional tension and that in the next few hours everyone will resume his task. if any of us wish to abdicate the role we currently have, let us say so clearly; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. as for the statement by mr cohn-bendit, perhaps mr poettering has two souls, but it is better to have two souls than to have no soul. (applause from the right)
mr president, commissioner, a lot has been said. i would like to ask all my colleagues a question. we are talking as if, by approving the compromise text for the examination, we risk falling from paradise to purgatory, if not even to hell, for port services. frankly, without the directive we are about to vote on, the individual member states would have had no limitation whatsoever - as they have not had - to adopt national legislative measures to open up the market for port services outside any framework of rules. i am one of those who fought hard and i remain convinced that authorization should have been mandatory. we have not succeeded in doing so, but we have obtained a directive which refers to subsidiarity, to what the states could have done anyway, and which sets out reference criteria for authorization which are fully in line with social, safety and environmental standards. of course you are! this is true if the individual state wishes to make authorization compulsory. but without the directive, we would have had a far worse wild west. we all know what the original proposal was and how it worked. we know the limits that have been placed on self-production, the rules that we have abolished, those that referred to a kind of wild west without any regulation for new ports, for new ports, for ports not open to commercial services. these are the reasons why, for example, all the workers' unions in my country, italy, cgl, cisl, uil, are asking us to approve the compromise text. we're not marching from heaven to purgatory. compared to what individual states could have done, i have the feeling that we have not yet conquered paradise, but probably from hell we have gone back to purgatory.
i actually refer back to the question by mr cushnahan and also by mr sandbæk. i asked the commission, among other things, whether it actually provides the member states with the legal and technical tools needed to detect goods that are being smuggled in. i thank the commissioner for the suggestion he has given me for the next question, because it would be interesting to know which countries, for example, are working to ensure that agreements and the interests of european citizens are not respected, rather than to enforce compliance with the agreements.
- the next item is the report (a5-0381/2003) by mr mussa, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a council recommendation on cancer screening (com (2003) 230 - c5-0322/2003 - 2003/0093 (cns)).
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank all the members of the committee who have made a valuable contribution to the drafting of this scientifically and socially relevant report. as i have already said on other occasions, i believe that public health must increasingly take a leading role in european policies, also in view of future enlargement. this recommendation is a first step towards the harmonisation and coordination of policies on cancer prevention, diagnosis and treatment. unfortunately, cancer is the main scourge in industrialized countries, both for the patient and for the family and for the operators themselves. the socioeconomic impact is therefore enormous, not only in terms of the cost of treatment and the support given to patients, but also in terms of the emotional commitment that this entails. this situation is not only a human tragedy but also a continuing decline in the proportion of the healthy population which is europe's productive and cognitive backbone. the latest statistics show that the average age of onset of these diseases is decreasing: the younger the patient, the more aggressive the disease. therefore, the therapeutic potential is undeniably linked to the timeliness of its diagnosis; the late diagnosis of cancer also makes the use of aggressive, mutilating and psychologically, economically and socially impactful therapies indispensable. although member states are responsible for health policies through their national health systems, such an important preventive activity, both in the social and health fields, cannot be allowed to remain a national or regional reality, depending on the economic and cultural possibilities of each country. the social impact of this disease must be supported and coordinated at european level, to guarantee the right to equal treatment opportunities and thus to achieve a standard of outcome. the current capacity for radical treatment in oncology seems to be more linked to the possibility of prevention, based on epidemiological, etiopathogenetic knowledge and early diagnosis, than to surgical, radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy techniques. for example, the five-year survival rate for gastric cancer ranges from 95 percent for patients with intramuscular cancer to less than 10 percent for patients with advanced invasive cancer despite treatment. on the one hand, a correct and adequate screening must have the greatest ability to highlight even the smallest lesions sensitivity and a good ability to discriminate them from benign ones specificity; on the other hand, the diagnostic test must be non-invasive for the subject and in any event involve almost no risk of harm arising from the procedure itself, taking into account that, by definition, those procedures concern asymptomatic persons, who are only potentially ill. it is clear that new early diagnosis tools must be tested and validated by experience before they can be produced in the european field. finally, the excellence of good screening practice needs to be monitored through analyses of relevant data and mortality in all member states, which will hopefully be collected in a european database. it is essential to mobilise economic resources to increase diagnostic facilities, so that the workload imposed by screening does not compromise the quality of the examination or increase waiting times for the examination, worsening the quality of care for patients who are already suffering from cancer. it is therefore essential to focus europe's action on four main areas: first, health information and education for the european citizen; second, the implementation of the already validated screening; third, periodic quality controls of the screening; fourth, the study of the applicability of new methods for screening. this recommendation will enable europe to act in a united way against a common, cruel, socially destructive disease, namely neoplastic disease. the urgency of strategic action at european level against cancer is underlined by the alarming epidemiological figure that one in four europeans has or will have a malignant tumour in their lifetime. finally, it is advisable that therapeutic guidelines for disease should be added to screening at european level.
commission. – first, i should like to thank the rapporteur and the members of this house for their comments on this report. i can reassure you that cancer prevention still figures very high on my agenda. as some members have rightly stated to me in writing, after 15 years of continuous european community efforts and involvement, this represents a significant and visible success for the community in an important area of disease prevention and health promotion for european citizens. work on cancer, including screening and surveillance, will be taken forward by the commission. the cancer screening recommendation will be taken forward by member states' authorities and the commission, once it is adopted by the council. funding will be through ongoing projects within the previous 'europe against cancer' programme and through the new public health programme. for 2003, a number of cancer-related projects have been identified for funding. under the current contracts, a fourth edition of the european guidelines for quality assurance in mammography screening and the first comprehensive edition of european guidelines for best practice in cervical cancer screening will be finalised in 2004. the commission has already enhanced the prevention of diseases, including cancer, in the new health programmes draft work programme for 2004. the draft specifically provides for a reference to cancer under the first and third strand objectives. this will enable cancer surveillance applications to be fully considered. project proposals on the status of best practice in the member states, as well as in acceding countries, would also be covered. in the light of the views expressed today, the commission intends to review the situation of cancer prevention even further with regard to the public health programmes work programme of 2004. we will then have to decide how to best underpin the commission's role in cancer prevention, while implementing the council recommendation on cancer screening.as the matter is especially important for acceding countries too, we are considering a meeting between experts from these countries and cancer screening experts, in order to ensure that the achievements of the cancer networks benefit the new member states as well. the points raised in the report and during the debate today have demonstrated clearly the importance of the issue. in the report of the committee on environment, health and consumer protection, 33 amendments are proposed. a further amendment was tabled for the plenary session. the commission can in principle support 11 amendments, namely amendments 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 10, 11, 14, 15, 19, and 22. in addition, we partially support four amendments, amendments 1, 29, 30 and 32. in addition to general improvements in the wording of the text, the acceptable amendments concern, for example, improving compliance and equal access for european citizens, as well as enhancing the role of the commission in following up the implementation of the council recommendation. the commission cannot, however, support the remaining 19 amendments. amendment 25 cannot be supported, as all rules and regulations on data protection in the member states must be in accordance with directive 95/46/ec. exceptions, for instance for medical registries, must be in accordance with article 8 of the directive. thus the amendment would simply reiterate the 'acquis communitaire'. in addition, amendments 5, 13 and 34 cannot be supported. they refer to tests that have not been successfully evaluated in randomised controlled trials. finally, amendment 33 cannot be accepted. even though it makes the necessary distinction between evidence-based tests and new tests currently under evaluation or new variations of recommended tests, these new tests are already sufficiently covered by articles 6(c) and (d). to mention a few specific ones would immediately raise the question as to why only those tests have been singled out.
- thank you, chief. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0353/2003) by mr paasilinna, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european agency for network and information security (com (2003) 63 - c5-0058/2003 - 2003/0032 (cod)).
commission. – first, in reply to mrs gill's remark on security standards, we have proposed the establishment of the network security agency so that common standards can be found. second, the participation of private sector businesses and others will be taken into account. this is something that parliament has long been pushing for. mr paasilinna, mr van velzen, mrs plooij-van gorsel and mrs mann all spoke very convincingly on that issue tonight in the presence of the italian presidency, and we are very proud of that. there seems to be a strong body of opinion in favour of what the commission proposed earlier. keeping up with changing technology will always be a challenge for us. the information society technologies programme, however, is one area where we can help: research programmes are ongoing in that field, and there is also the stakeholders' group. i hope that the european network and information security agency will be a kind of 'hub of hubs' in this area, where the best knowledge can be exchanged. once again i should like to thank mr paasilinna, mrs cederschiöld, mr van velzen, mrs mann, mrs plooij-van gorsel, mr harbour and mrs gill. i should like you, mr president, to pass on a message to the bureau that these people deserve a chance to have a debate on the information society during the daytime. since i have been in this house this has never happened before 9.30 p.m. at the earliest. this gives the impression that 'future' issues are discussed in the evening and 'past' issues during the day. could this change, even just once, before the european elections? i trust that you will pass on this modest wish. with this team you could run any file in europe, and they deserve to do this during the day from time to time. i got a little emotional there but i should now comment on the amendments! the commission can accept all the compromise amendments as voted on 17 november 2003 in the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. none of the other amendments can be accepted. (applause)
- your modest request, commissioner, is not as dangerous as that put forward by a famous author. i shall therefore certainly put it to the conference of presidents. here, members applaud when they hear certain proposals that they think are appropriate. however, they should not turn to those who chair these assemblies but to their group chairmen, because it is the group chairmen who, at the conference of presidents, decide when questions are to be debated.
- i am fully aware that you have put a question to the president-in-office of the council. i was going to ask him if he was going to answer it or not.
i suggest. the request made can only be answered in the affirmative. i think that the demand for transparency is so objective that it must be accepted.
- the members will remind you of this statement, which is very important. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0391/2003) by mr blokland, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on shipments of waste (com (2003) 379 - c5-0365/2003 - 2003/0139 (cod)).
commission. – mr president, i am pleased to say that the commission can accept 26 amendments fully and a further 23 amendments in principle or in part. certain amendments to article 13 on objections to waste for recovery pursue national solutions rather than solutions at community level, and these amendments are particularly aimed at addressing the issues of so-called standard dumping in relation to waste destined for recovery by allowing a number of further justifications for objecting to shipments destined for recovery. as we all know, the problem relates to the fact that waste for recovery travels almost freely within the single market and, at the same time, waste treatment that respects higher standards is often more costly than conventional waste treatment. i agree with the rapporteur that we can allow competition on costs but not on environmental standards. however, we are legally obliged through the treaty to safeguard the environment while also respecting the rules of the internal market. a solution can therefore be best found at community level and should be based on three main elements. firstly, the establishment of standards at eu level through the extension of the ipc directive; secondly, the establishment of guidelines regarding sham recovery and thirdly, clearer distinctions between the different recovery and disposal operations. i agree with those who say that it is not easy to see a solution until this long-term solution is found or established, but we in the commission definitely recognise the problem and the need to discuss a possible solution in the meantime, and this will be part of the process from now on. another issue of concern to the commission is the proposed banning of the interim treatment operations. amendments 13, 14, 34 and 41 propose banning shipments of waste for interim treatment operations and define recovery and disposal operations as only covering final treatment and not interim operations. the commission believes that an outright ban would both lack environmental justification and would conflict with the treaty. further, the commission believes that it is essential that the horizontal definitions of recovery and disposal operations as established in the waste framework directive are adhered to within this regulation. establishing different definitions would be both inconsistent and unnecessarily complicated. this issue of consistency with existing legislation also arises in other amendments. certain amendments to article 13 aim to establish criteria to classify a treatment as recovery and address the issue of sham recovery. in fact, such criteria could be among several deemed relevant for the distinction between recovery and disposal in general, which is a horizontal issue which should be settled in the context of the waste framework directive rather than in the specific context of this regulation. even though the commission might not entirely disagree with the substance of the proposed clarifications, there is a strong argument for consistency in the lists in the annexes and if changes are required they should, as a first step, be introduced at their point of origin. another element regarding annex v, namely that of giving priority to the eu hazardous list above the basel non-hazardous list in relation to the so-called basel ban on exports of hazardous waste from oecd to non-oecd countries, can be supported – amendments 69 and 70. let me just make a brief comment on the question of the double legal basis. as the explanatory memorandum establishes, the primary objective of the regulation is protection of the environment. that main objective has been maintained in the new proposal and the legal basis is in article 175 of the ec treaty: environment. however, as regards the provisions of titles iv, v and vi on exports out of, imports into and transit through the community to and from third countries, it can be argued that these are rules which pursue an overall and general environmental objective, as well as rules on international trade. environmental rules, therefore, also apply to the trade regime and are linked to it. therefore, the legal basis as regards the specific provisions in these three titles is article 133 of the ec treaty. amendment 95 proposes to allow tacit consent in relation to shipments of hazardous waste for recovery. as is also stressed in the explanatory memorandum, this is not acceptable to the commission. firstly, we have to apply the precautionary approach to shipments of hazardous waste within the community and, secondly, we have to respect the basel convention's requirements in this respect. the basel convention is very clear and leaves no room for interpretation. written consent for shipments of hazardous waste must be applied. the commission supports the amendments which pursue the same goal as the commission proposal, namely the promotion of eu standards and certain internationally-agreed guidelines in the country of destination outside the community. the guidelines added to the list – the ilo guidelines on ship-breaking and the oecd guidelines on personal computers – can also be accepted. lastly, with regard to impact assessment, there is none. however, the system of notification and information is a well-established one. there is no specific impact assessment.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
the agenda calls for the report (a5-0354/2003) by mrs gutiérrez-cortines, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the commission communication 'towards a thematic strategy for soil protection' (com (2002) 179 - c5-0328/2002 - 2002/2172 (cos)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0365/2003) by mr lisi, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 96/82/ec on the control of major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances (pe-cons 3665/2003 - c5-0435/2003 - 2001/0257 ((cod)).
the rapporteur. mr president, madam commissioner, i will begin by briefly referring to the legislative process of this measure. the dramatic incidents that have affected the chemical industry in recent years, but especially the people living around these sites and the surrounding environment, have been drawing the attention of the european union. places such as bay a mare, aznacollar, but especially toulouse and enschede have become synonymous with human and environmental tragedies that we cannot leave without a clear response. it is in this delicate context that the commission has presented to parliament and the council its proposal to amend directive 96/82 of december 1996 on the control of the risks of accidents caused by dangerous substances. this proposal was the result of a thorough scientific work and we welcome the commission's willingness to address the weaknesses of the previous directive in a constructive spirit which has enabled us all to send a clear message to both the chemical industry and the people. we will do everything possible to ensure that appropriate control measures are adopted and respected in future. at the first reading i explained, together with other colleagues, the reasons for the need for this strong signal from the european parliament and we took a joint approach, which we confirm today, that the accidents which have occurred so far should hopefully not happen again, with a guarantee of protection for the citizens and workers of these plants and strong protection of the surrounding environment. the council, as you know, reached a common position which essentially echoed many of the concerns of parliament. it is true that after this second reading there were still some areas of doubt, but i believe that the compromise we have reached together and which we are submitting to parliament for ratification has clarified them. i shall briefly mention the following points which the conciliation has resolved by compromise: the first concerns mining activities. the compromise we have reached is aimed at ensuring complementarity between the directive in question and the directive on waste from mining activities, which is currently undergoing its first reading in this parliament. the scope of the seveso directive is thus extended to include installations for the disposal of waste used in connection with the processing of minerals. as regards staff training, in this area we have insisted from the outset on the importance of proper training of staff in the prevention and management of any accidents. this concept was reaffirmed in conciliation and parliament has now obtained that adequate training is provided not only for the staff of the sites concerned but also for the staff of the subcontracting companies working on these sites. as regards a third aspect, risk mapping, parliament had repeatedly called for the inclusion of illustrative maps to inform the citizens concerned of the area and extent of the risks, considering that this was nevertheless a simple and clear means of communication that would allow all those concerned to be informed of the potential risks in the event of accidents. a conciliation agreement has been reached whereby these maps or illustrations - and thus equivalent tools - are integrated into the safety reports and made available to the public. the second to last point was the one on potassium nitrate. the specifications and new thresholds for potassium nitrate proposed by parliament were approved by the council in conciliation. this amendment will help us to avoid farmers who use a form of potassium nitrate which is not classifiable as a fuel being incorrectly included among those who must be subject to the safety measures provided for in this directive. the last point concerns the spatial planning database. the compromise reached with the council on a database of risks and accident scenarios bank to assess the compatibility of industrial sites with certain sensitive areas calls for the commission to draw up, within three years, the guidelines necessary for the establishment of such a database, while safeguarding the necessary subsidiarity in the face of the diversity of situations. i would like to conclude, mr president, by thanking the commission and my colleagues. i believe that we have reached a satisfactory agreement together, which takes account of all the requirements that have been expressed, especially the main objective that i mentioned at the beginning, namely to send a clear message to our fellow citizens. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to make one technical point. in annex i, part i, in particular points 5 and 6, there are definitions which could lead to misunderstandings. please note that the english version is the authoritative version.
- as the situation is relatively complex, your statement will have to be repeated tomorrow before the vote.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the report (a5-0386/2003) by mr adam, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a system for the identification and registration of ovine and caprine animals and amending regulation (eec) no 3508/92 (com (2002) 729 - c5-0027/2003 - 2002/0297 (cns)) is on the agenda.
- someone in the audience clapped. let me remind you once again that visitors are always welcome in the gallery, but they cannot intervene in any way, either to express their approval or to express their disapproval.
- this was the most passionate debate of the evening. commissioner, did you block someone's way? i think everyone's waiting for your answer.
- each group and each member will of course ask themselves how to act with caution when voting. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). the following shall be considered as a written declaration:
mr president, i would like to speak on a matter of internal organization of our parliament. i applied for access to these buildings for an intern, a person who works with me on a voluntary basis, but this opportunity was denied. i have been told that only accredited assistants may enter the buildings in strasbourg during the off-season. i think that is a particularly absurd decision. it is already absurd to have two places of work; and the fact that the strasbourg office is completely closed to any possibility of work outside the sessions for people who are not necessarily employees, employees officially registered as assistants, seems to me an act of excessive bureaucratization. i would ask you, mr president, to look into this sort of rule you have set up so that we can change it.
mr president, we think the presidency's position is very clear and is in substance the same as that of this parliament. it is for this very reason that the mediation effort aimed at a high and noble compromise in line with the text approved by the convention, which cannot and must not be altered in its framework, must be supported. the statements by minister frattini on your speech in this chamber give us hope, as mr brok has pointed out, for the final outcome of the work of the intergovernmental conference: i am therefore still firmly in the group of optimists. i am confident that we will achieve the goal we are all working towards; i am absolutely convinced that no one will have the courage, no one will take the political responsibility to strike a blow at the heart of europe, to shatter a dream that comes from far away. president. - mr antonioni, i think it is right to bring to the attention of the presidency a number of issues on which it is right to reflect: the first is the role of the european parliament. it would be a grave mistake to reduce the role of the assembly which represents the peoples of the union; i believe that what has been written in the text approved by the assembly of the convention is correct and cannot be changed. secondly, the composition of the commission: the countries of reunification - their representatives are in this chamber - look with great hope to the europe of tomorrow. let's not disappoint them by keeping them away from the executive! that is why it is appropriate that there should be a full commissioner for each country, at least for the first phase of the europe of tomorrow. and now, mr president, a subject which has been the subject of many debates and which i believe cannot be underestimated by this house. i think - and i am absolutely convinced, and not because i suffer from swiss guard syndrome - that the preamble to the constitution should have an explicit reference to the judeo-christian roots of europe. we are not giving up a fundamental part of our history, we are not giving up our deepest roots, we are not giving up the europe of values, we are not giving up this explicit reference, precisely because we want to - and many countries have understood this - secular institutions. the german chancellor, mr barón crespo, the social democrat, understood this very well when he decided not to block a proposal which aims to put the person, the centrality of the person, the centrality of the citizen, at the centre of the attention of the europe of tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are perhaps faced with an anticipation of clearer positions. this morning both the president of the council and the commission made statements that were more precise and harsh: are they foreshadowing what will happen in naples? a europe of clams or a neapolitan pizza to be served to the european public next year? at this point, if we hear announcements every hour, such as the initiative of the finance ministers, perhaps it is good that the presidency of the council should review things with a certain urgency within italy, if these are the contributions that minister tremonti gives; i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to be consulted on this matter, but i am saying that the european parliament should be consulted on this matter. i suppose we'll have to take note of that, unfortunately, in a few hours. at this point we would like to offer a few words of advice or a few wishes. for the next european elections, why not imagine a political initiative - i repeat, a political initiative - of a european consultative referendum? you will win that and it will also be able to mobilize attention for the subsequent referendums of institutional value that will be held. on the other hand, mr president of the council and mr commissioner, are you trying to explore the possibility of something new by 15 december? are you trying to solve the most serious problem you seem to have by giving more powers - powers that are a little bit american or british - to the president of the commission? it's not giving 15 or 20 or 25; it is, rather, by taking away the value of ethnic representation to put at the centre the problems of programmatic, cultural and political representation. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament.
mr president, i would like to address the representative of the presidency, mr antonioni. mr antonioni, i do not doubt the sincerity of your intentions, but some of the expressions you used - i would almost say that they escaped you - have been of great concern to me. she said that for the sake of negotiating tactics some member states, that is, representatives of governments, insist on requests for amendments. but there's a fundamental misunderstanding here: the intergovernmental conference should not be the venue for negotiations, and it should not be allowed that governments should re-introduce positions already presented in the convention - as my colleagues hänsch and brok have pointed out - positions which have already been discarded by the convention because more convincing and more widely agreed solutions have been found. i do not say that the intergovernmental conference should have simply ratified the draft convention blindly, as the heads of government wisely did with regard to the draft charter of rights; i would say that the intergovernmental conference should have and should only have looked at the shortcomings and contradictions of the draft convention and seen how to overcome them. you also said that the italian presidency has a clear position: the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights is in favour of a text which departs as little as possible from the draft convention. but that concept of "as little as possible" is the most questionable and discretionary one can imagine. we need to be clear: i would be very sorry if the most significant innovations of the convention were to be affected: the powers of the european parliament, particularly in budgetary matters; the double majority system; the legislative council; the location of the minister for foreign affairs. do not force the european parliament to give a negative opinion of the outcome of the intergovernmental conference and to call on the national parliaments not to ratify the treaty! (applause) i would like to thank
i suggest. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to be able to explain to this house the results expected from the sixth euro-mediterranean ministerial conference, scheduled for naples on 2 and 3 december. even before italy took up its six-month term as president of the council of the european union, it was clear to it how much of the overall budget of its presidency would be covered by the outcome of the naples conference. in the context of the external relations of the new enlarged union, relations with the countries of the southern shore of the mediterranean are still undoubtedly a significant part of the union's external relations and a key pillar. the barcelona process has, since its inception, been able to record the state of health of these relations, often succeeding in acting as a metronome of the dialogue between the two shores of the common sea, thus exercising all the regulatory function but above all the propulsive function of the dialogue itself that the events in the middle east over the years have allowed. in the run-up to the naples conference, italy has always been able to count on the fruitful cooperation of all the partners, who have shown in recent months, without exception, that they share our deep expectations that barcelona vi will truly mark an unequivocal moment of relaunch of the euro-mediterranean partnership: the need for a revival is rooted in the valencia action plan, adopted under the spanish presidency in april 2002, and which, reaffirmed by the ministerial conference in crete last may, under the greek presidency, was seen by us as a clear sign of a mandate to give shape to the common commitment to make the barcelona process more concrete. this is all the more necessary today, when the process of enlargement of the union on the one hand and the situation in the middle east on the other are stimulating a strong demand for europe from the countries on the southern shore of the mediterranean. the european union has already provided a first vigorous response of coherence by launching the new neighbourhood policy, which envisages a new, unified approach to its external relations with neighbouring areas, but also by launching a more incisive policy on respect for human rights and democracy, which, thanks in part to the substantial contribution of the commission, has now taken off. it is in this new and promising context that the italian presidency intends to take full advantage of the important responsibility it has been entrusted with, and is preparing to devote to the naples conference all the commitment it is capable of and all the energy that the event warrants. the relaunch we have in mind will, however, be truly such - that is, it will be qualitative - only if it can return us a vital and dynamic euro-mediterranean partnership: an exercise not just for insiders but finally geared to our public opinions. concrete means it is worth specifying a simple thing: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the mediterranean countries, the countries of central and eastern europe, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of central and eastern europe, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of eastern europe, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of eastern europe, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of eastern europe, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of eastern europe, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of eastern europe, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of eastern europe, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of eastern europe, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of central and eastern europe, the countries of eastern europe, the countries of eastern europe and the countries of central and eastern europe. it is only in this way that a real and strong partnership between the two shores of the mediterranean can be built and established. in this context, the result that we, the thirty-five euro-mediterranean partners, expect from the naples conference is that the barcelona process will be enriched by three new instruments designed to bring the partnership closer to the most vital instances of the region's civil societies. i refer, first of all - and i particularly welcome the opportunity - to the creation of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, to be incorporated into the barcelona process in an advisory capacity; i am referring, next, to the creation of the euro-mediterranean foundation for dialogue between cultures and civilizations. and, finally, the new institutional and operational structure which the partners will decide to give to the future of the euro-mediterranean investment and partnership fund, set up within the eib just over a year ago to promote private sector investment, particularly by small and medium-sized enterprises, in the countries of the southern mediterranean. we are confident that these would make a qualitative leap forward in the partnership, giving it an independent voice and a capacity for action that would be driven by the requests that civil society would be able to convey through the parliamentary channel; the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financial instrument for the european union (financial instrument for the european union) is based on the principle of the european union's financial instrument for the european union (financial instrument for the european union) and the principle of the european union's financial instrument for the european union (financial instrument for the european union). these are the basic reasons and concerns expressed in the three main priorities set out in the ministerial meeting held at the beginning of december, which we read in the context of the building of a reinvigorated partnership between the two shores of the mediterranean, which events of recent months have confirmed to us as increasingly essential to guaranteeing the region conditions of peace and political, economic and social stability. in this respect, the formal inclusion of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly in the partnership framework, with its advisory role, is of the utmost importance, since it must be entrusted with the task of bringing the barcelona process closer to public opinion, thus filling the gap in participation and, above all, communication that the barcelona process has undoubtedly been missing up to now. in the foundation for intercultural dialogue we see a structure capable of catalysing - by combining pragmatism and a forward-looking vision - all initiatives aimed at developing dialogue and mutual understanding, on the basis of the common principles for dialogue between cultures and civilizations approved at the crete conference. we entrust the naples conference with the task of determining the date of its birth and, in our opinion, of making its location official at the same time. finally, we believe it is essential to improve the operation of the fund by tailoring its instruments more directly to the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises and the private sector. naples will be mainly this, but not only: the conference will aim to reaffirm the commitment to developing the partnership also in political and security matters, by deepening the terms of cooperation on esdp and dialogue also on a particularly difficult issue such as terrorism. on the economic front, naples will be the occasion for converging and evaluating the results of the euro-mediterranean trade conference in palermo last july and those of the first euro-mediterranean agriculture ministerial in venice on 27 november, as well as the conference on investment, infrastructure and energy scheduled for the eve of barcelona vi on 1 and 2 december. the social and cultural aspects will be largely absorbed by the inevitable preponderance of the debate on the foundation, but will certainly capture the state of the art of the progress made since the launch of the regional programme on good governance and the improvement of the rule of law, which is fundamental for the future of euro-mediterranean cooperation in the fields of justice, police action and migration policy. in particular, the debate on the latter will highlight the importance of a balanced management of migration policy, which, if properly oriented, can emerge as a positive factor for the socioeconomic growth of the whole region. with the aim of bringing the partnership closer to public opinion, the launch of cooperation between the territorial governments of the two countries will be welcomed in naples, and will have an important moment at the next interregional conference in palermo. naples should also take note of a civil society engagement mechanism, the forum, which will be held in the city itself on the eve of the event, with an increased participation and a continuity structure designed to improve the impact and visibility of this exercise. finally, it will record the conclusions of the meeting of the representative bodies of the social partners, which has just taken place in malta under the auspices of the european social committee. all this will flow into the strong message that we are confident will emerge from the naples conference. to achieve these objectives, we are working to ensure that the orientation of all the euro-mediterranean partners converges on them. this is an effort of pragmatism and a strategic approach which should make it possible to reconcile even different interests, in order to build and nurture - in the framework of the new conceptual reference of wider europe - a more solid relationship between the two shores of the mediterranean. i think we are on the right track, mr president, ladies and gentlemen. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. today is a good day to talk about the euro-mediterranean partnership, better known as the barcelona process, a few days before the mediterranean meeting of foreign ministers in naples. the european parliament has made important contributions to the development of the partnership through opinions and resolutions adopted before the foreign ministers' meetings. it has been the driving force in promoting cooperation between the euro-mediterranean parliaments. the commission welcomes the fact that the working group set up has now reached agreement on a euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly and is pleased to welcome it to naples as an advisory body within the barcelona process institutions. what's this about? the commission considers that the assembly should effectively promote respect for human rights and democratization in the region. the commission's communication on this subject, published in may, was welcomed by parliament and the council. we will now discuss with the mediterranean partners the action plans to be implemented with meda funding to bring about concrete improvements in human rights and democracy in all partner countries. the euro-mediterranean region is one of the regions in the world most likely to be affected by the risks of the 21st century, whether terrorism, trafficking in human beings, drugs, globalisation or environmental threats. it is important that europe shows solidarity with its neighbouring region in this situation. solidarity by helping our partners to meet these challenges in a way that is compatible with respect for human rights and democratic principles. but we cannot do more than our partners want us to do. and that is why political reform must be an essential part of the concept. the new strategy for europe, for a new neighbourhood, which is being debated in this house this afternoon, sets out very precisely what we can do to make greater progress in political and economic reform in the region. i do not want to say anything about that now, because there will be ample opportunity to do so this afternoon. i would point out that we have made a number of progresses which will be assessed in naples and on the basis of which further progress will have to be built. i also want to point out that north-south integration alone is not enough. it is also about further supporting the integration of the partners among themselves. we have made progress in some areas, but we should certainly encourage further efforts. in conclusion, let me say that in our whole concept intercultural dialogue must play a special role. the importance of intercultural dialogue was recognised very early on in the barcelona process, and this has been reflected in joint programmes to support the development of cultural heritage, in audiovisual co-productions, or in youth exchanges, for example. in the run-up to the foreign ministers' meeting in valencia, the commission put forward the proposal, which was finally approved, to supplement these programmes by an independent euro-mediterranean foundation for the dialogue of cultures. i am very glad that we are close to an agreement and i hope that at the naples meeting an agreement can also be reached on the seat of the foundation. all the candidates, rome, valletta and alexandria, have their merits, and i do not want to pass judgement here, but i do want to point out that it is important that the foundation can be operational by the middle of next year. it will make a significant contribution to enhancing the euro-mediterranean partnership's image and to increasing its visibility and relevance to the general public.
mr president, the transformation of the parliamentary forum into the parliamentary assembly, which will be on the agenda for the naples proceedings on 2 and 3 december, will be a political step of great importance, as the acp experience has already shown to this assembly. the parliamentary assembly is an appropriate instrument for political cooperation which, through parliamentary action, calls the member states to account for any responsibilities they may have on the one hand, and draws strength for new action on the other. the next step in naples will have to be rapid action by the council to put into practice the decisions already taken at the valencia ministerial conference, especially the initiatives based on culture and dialogue between civilizations - both bilateral and multilateral initiatives - to relaunch the policy of proximity which is the key to the balance and development of the mediterranean area. the new institutional framework must also promote a working model which we all feel is necessary. our decisions must be operational because we have to make a little mea culpa about this. if we think of the barcelona process, meda, meda ii, the valencia conference and the expectations that these steps have generated and still generate, perhaps we have lacked a little capacity to put all the decisions we have taken into practice. much work has been done, but of course some of it still needs to be completed, and the assembly is obviously the place to check that the objectives we set ourselves are being respected and achieved, especially in promoting democracy and the rule of law, because a genuine, coherent and effective euro-mediterranean partnership must fully integrate not only the social and economic dimensions but also the respect and promotion of human rights. i would like to mention a few points which should be included in the agenda and given priority: the first is a programme of solidarity cooperation between the two shores of the mediterranean in the fight against terrorism and international organized crime. we need to intervene with concrete actions, which stop this flow of migration, often forced, which is a tragedy for humanity. secondly, the examination of the forms of development of the section envisaged by the eib for the mediterranean and the middle east as a means of supporting the objectives defined in the new strategy, with the financial participation of other mediterranean countries; i remember that this house proposed a bank as the operative subject of the area. thirdly, we must insist on the development of south-south relations. the agadir agreement is, in my view, an important way of achieving a genuine free trade area. fourthly, the simplification of the procedures of the meda regulation to increase the effectiveness of this project.
mr president, mr antonione has already mentioned that the assembly to be held in naples is very important in the decision to transform the parliamentary forum into a real assembly, the euro-mediterranean bank and the euro-mediterranean foundation for dialogue between cultures. i believe that, along with these objectives, we will have to reassess the euro-mediterranean policy within the framework of the more general neighbourhood policy, which finally puts the eastern dimension on an equal footing with the southern dimension. this is the signal we must send to our partners, and we want the action plans to strengthen the regional dimension of the barcelona process, in the sense of dealing with cultural and human relations, economic and commercial aspects, social aspects and rights, and security aspects. i think we must take up again the complexity of the partnership, which has been very much crushed within the free trade dimension alone. as regards human rights and democracy, i think we must stress that this is not an option; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to do so. i believe we can do this by opening up democratic processes in these countries, with respect for human rights, as is called for in the fundamental report of the united nations development agency, which should be our guiding light in dealing with relations with these countries.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would just like to point out, in order to avoid confusion between chemical formulae and abbreviations, that in annex 1, part 1, the english version is used.
mr president, mr lisi's report concerns the control of the risks of accidents associated with the circulation of certain dangerous substances, especially when these are extracted from mines and transported. i could certainly not vote against this report; i therefore voted in favour, but i ask myself and ask mr lisi: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the euro is a dangerous substance and whether it should not have been included as a dangerous substance to be protected against in circulation, including the euro? do not be shocked, mr president, but in italy the circulation of the euro has unfortunately led to an increase in the expenditure of all workers and pensioners because its cost has increased considerably.
mr. president, last night i had another dream about the sailor fatuzzo from the new york to the bahamas cruises of 1963 and 1965. in my view, the commission's proposal is a good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the advice i have received, however, is that one amendment is missing, namely: why does mr ramos not ask that next time pensioners who are receiving their pension for the first time be given a free cruise?
the report by mr paasilinna calls for the establishment of a european agency for the security of information networks, clearly and above all against the pirates of information, computers, electronic communication lines. i think, however, mr president, that mr paasilinna would have prepared a better report if there had also been an amendment to give more security against pirates who take away money from workers, money which should instead be kept for them, for their pensions. it would be better if there were measures against the piracy of information networks and against piracy against pensioners.
mr adam's report, mr president, deals with the identification and registration of sheep and goat animals. i voted for it: it is certainly good to record the progress of sheep and goats, but the wish that a retired citizen has expressed to me is that europe should also take care - and i hope that mr adam will do so soon - of recording and keeping the pension contributions paid by workers, contributions which are often and frequently paid - at least this happens in italy, but i fear also in other european states - they are lost on the streets, they are no longer found, so workers receive a pension lower than what they are entitled to. it is therefore necessary to ensure that years of work are also recorded and tracked throughout life.
mr blokland, mr president, this report calls for the free movement of waste in europe - urban waste, industrial waste - and i voted in favour of this report. i would like to see the pensioners of europe considered as deserving of at least the same freedom of movement as that granted to urban and industrial waste. you know, mr president, that a person who is entitled to a social security benefit, such as a blind person, a deaf-mute person or a citizen who needs constant care, if he moves around europe outside his own country, loses the right to receive a pension on these grounds of disability. i would therefore prefer that the directive in question should deal not only with the movement of waste but also with the movement of retired citizens.
mr president, with this report, mrs gutiérrez-cortines, a spaniard, is calling for the protection of the soil - through mapping and legislation - so that it remains capable of producing good agricultural products. i am very pleased about this, but when i read about soil protection, i naturally asked the rapporteur, i asked europe, whether it is not time to make a commitment so that our leaders, too, instead of having their heads in the clouds and their feet on the ground, walk firmly with their feet on the ground. too often, in fact, they think of the stars and the sky and not of the daily needs of all citizens. let me conclude, mr president, by saying that we need more presidents like you, because we need presidents like you in all the countries of europe, not just in france.
mr blokland's report, mr president, deals with the circulation of waste in europe, urban and extra-urban waste. i voted in favour because this is certainly progress for europe, but i would like mr blokland and europe to also be more concerned about the free movement of citizens, particularly pensioners, and particularly pensioners with disabilities, because unfortunately, at present, under regulation 1408, pensioners who have social and health care pensions - such as deaf-mutes, blind people, people in need of care - lose the right to receive their social security pension if they move around europe. i would like to see the same freedom of movement for european citizens as that which this directive provides for municipal and industrial waste.
mr president, i believe that the approach adopted by president berlusconi to this problem of human rights and the need to adapt russian policy to the standards of our conception of democracy was dictated not only by profound reasons, which we all recognise, but also by sound realism and a strategic vision of european interests, if we think, in accordance with general de gaulle's prophetic vision, of a europe stretching from the atlantic to the urals. how can we fail to recognize, from a strategic point of view, the vital interest of what is widely regarded as an indispensable partner of the union, the russian federation, in the need to stabilize a key region in relation to access to the oil of the caucasus? it is no coincidence that the chechen guerrillas are not targeting russian military posts but oil infrastructure. and so it is legitimate to ask what interests, apart from ethno-religious motivations, are behind chechen terrorism and what forces are at work. we are not going to allow the european parliament to be the arbiter of the decisions of the council of ministers. is it true or not that, as early as november 1998, in islamabad, the 18th assembly of the islamic group of pakistan named chechnya as one of the leaders of the world jihad, along with other areas such as kosovo? as for human rights, i would remind you that you only have to download the images broadcast worldwide by osama bin laden's networks to see the severed heads of russian soldiers. this is also a human rights issue, if i am not mistaken!
mr president, how can we fail to recognize our commitment to the protection of human rights and to respect for the right of peoples to self-determination? how can we not defend the right of the chechen people to express their opinion? i therefore agree with the president-in-office of the council and support the position of the european people's party. however, while i share the general approach of the compromise resolution which will be voted on tomorrow by this house, i cannot accept that the position expressed by the president of the council of the european union is being interpreted in a misleading and inaccurate way, as some members of this house have done. it is not true what is claimed in this report; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by mr cohn-bendit. it is true what the gue members have said. i refer back to the famous press conference that was mentioned, because it is right that we also remember what the president of the russian federation, putin, said: during the talks, the uncomfortable questions, the doubts about our policy came from president berlusconi himself. this is the text of an agency that is certainly not aligned with government positions. the press agencies also point out that it was the italian prime minister who raised the chechen question. i therefore believe that what happened at the summit must be interpreted with great care and correctness, and above all that the spirit and will that characterized the commitment of the italian presidency of the european union must be interpreted with great correctness. every other interpretation becomes instrumental for political purposes, especially internal, italian.
mr president, allow me to begin with three statements: the war in chechnya is not putin's private affair; the war in chechnya is not a war on terrorism; the war in chechnya continues to record massive and daily violations of the human rights of the civilian population. it is only on the basis of these three postulates that we can discuss with president putin the new impetus to be given to the partnership between the european union and russia. we therefore strongly support the censure contained in the resolution which this parliament will vote on tomorrow against the president-in-office of the european union for the unacceptable statements made by mr berlusconi in support of putin's policy in chechnya, statements which are totally unacceptable, totally unrelated to the policy expressed so far by the european union, as mr poettering has also pointed out: the european union considers chechnya to be a wound. the relations of affinity and personal friendship between president berlusconi and the chechen people cannot and must not undermine the rigour with which europe must demand from president putin that the arbitrations and violence in chechnya cease immediately and that a political solution to the conflict be sought. mr president, since the beginning of the year, three thousand people have been killed, three hundred have disappeared, fifty mass graves have been discovered and the election has been rigged. this is the record of the war in chechnya, which is the record of a long period of impunity: the italian presidency would do well to hold president putin to account for this, and above all for this. we would have expected from mr antonio some words of regret for what has happened and some words of clarity about what will happen in the future. we note that these words, mr president, have not been received.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think that any of us would question the strategic value of the eu-russia relationship. what we are criticizing - and our criticisms are directed at both the council and the commission, which have pursued the same policy - is an uncritical policy towards russia, a completely blind policy, which does not see the regression of press freedom, which does not see the regression with regard to the independence of the judiciary - the case of mr khodorkovsky is very clear - a policy which pretends that there is no such thing as a tiny country called chechnya. isn't this a massacre in chechnya? two hundred and fifty thousand people - how many times do we have to say this?! - out of a million people is equivalent to an extermination, it is something very close to genocide. and that is not acceptable; it is not acceptable that the commission did not have the courage to send its humanitarian aid commissioner to chechnya and that mr prodi did not go there either. i have to say this and i hope that undersecretary antonioni will report to president berlusconi: it is unacceptable that president berlusconi should call this a legend, and i believe that many in this parliament and in the european union expect president berlusconi, when he comes to this house in the next part-session in december, to clearly rectify his statements, because the dignity of the dead and those who are still alive in chechnya is at stake, the dignity of this parliament and of the whole european union and its citizens is at stake. as far as the future is concerned, we can do what we did for yugoslavia: the european union must not be allowed to pretend that the caucasus problem does not exist. the chechen problem is a colonial problem and must be solved as such. what is happening in chechnya is infinitely greater than what has been done in algeria and many other countries in africa. the future is therefore the accession of chechnya to the european union, as well as the accession of georgia, which is another strategic part of the european union. this must be the programme of the commission and the council. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. mr president, this report deals with three communications from the european commission: the first is entitled 'enlarged europe' 'neighbourhood: a new framework for relations with our eastern and southern neighbours'. the second is the communication entitled: 'prepare the ground for a new proximity instrument'. the third is: 'to give a new impetus to eu action with mediterranean partners in the field of human rights and democratisation'. this new policy, from the parliament's point of view, must involve the 25 countries of the 'next venture' union, that is, those whose full integration into the union has already been decided, albeit at different times, for different reasons, and the neighbours to the east and south. it is a coherent proposal for a complex geopolitical area, from russia to morocco, which can be described as a pan-european and mediterranean region because of its history, its cultural relations and its geographical proximity. it is in this context that parliament proposes that the south-east dimension be integrated into this policy as soon as possible, that is to say the countries of the caucasus, and that we look a little further, that is to say also at other countries of the middle east dimension, which cannot be included in this strategy today. the report focuses on the policies to be implemented, considering that these policies are needed today, for the present, to build, first of all, a common security dimension, if we do not give the concept of security only a military value. we are very pleased that the first item in the new security strategy presented by the high representative for european security was the relationship with our neighbours, because our security is their security and we must build it together. at the same time, there is a wealth of relations to be built, which will lead us to share mutually beneficial policies with the countries concerned, based on a political and institutional dialogue with the appropriate instruments. the report therefore makes a clear distinction between this strategy and that of future enlargement, confirming without any ambiguity the commitment to conclude negotiations with romania and bulgaria in 2007, to assess by 2004 the opening of possible negotiations with turkey and the prospect of accession for all the balkan countries. we do not hide in the report that there are other countries, for example ukraine and moldova, which make no secret of the fact that they aspire to be members of the union. although this is not the strategy that will decide their entry, we say that participation in such a strategy can only bring this perspective closer and certainly not further away. the report also delves into the specific features of such a vast, diverse and complex area. we have just spoken about russia and the document expresses the awareness that relations with russia cannot be reduced to a simple neighbourhood relationship. but you will find a paragraph, which was voted on by the committee on foreign affairs at an unsuspected time, which highlights the problems of democracy and the tragedy in chechnya as the present obstacle to a normalisation of our relations. finally, the action plans give the commission a flexible instrument to establish multilateral, regional and bilateral relations with these countries, just as the cross-border instrument will serve not to build walls at the new frontiers but to have an understanding, an exaltation of the local dimension. the report also deals with the institutional question. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and we are not going to be able to do that. we also call for human rights policy to be fully incorporated into this strategy. we believe, however, that there is still no european doctrine on this subject, although the commission's communication makes some interesting proposals and is a step forward.
mr president, this report by mr napoletano is very important and we are pleased that some of the amendments, including ours, adopted by the committee on foreign affairs have completed it and improved it further. the role of the countries that will join the union now becomes crucial in promoting an effective good neighbour policy with the countries that will remain outside these new borders. many of these countries also aspire to join the union; not immediately, as commissioner verheugen said, but the door remains open. and this good neighbour policy certainly depends on us, depends on brussels, but it also depends very much on them. as rapporteur i have followed poland closely and have seen how, for years now, successive governments of the right and the left have been tackling the problems of relations with neighbouring countries, especially with ukraine, with a view to enlargement, with a great deal of initiative. problems such as crossborder traffic have already been mentioned by many colleagues here - local traffic which drives an important, albeit underground, economy - as well as the efforts poland has always made to anchor ukraine on its side, on our side, on the side of the west. i have just spoken to some of my polish colleagues in the warsaw parliament who have pursued this policy. i think that poland is an example of what the new countries should and will have to do in their relations with those who will remain outside the new frontiers of europe, so that they do not feel excluded, as mr napoletano said. i would also like to mention moldova, perhaps the poorest country in europe, in respect of which - and the report notes this, it emphasizes this - we are pursuing a somewhat incoherent policy. we should do more to help this country economically, but above all politically, to protect it from the growing and worrying russian influence that is spreading through the transnistrian enclave. it is an appeal which comes to us from many of our group's friends in that country, an appeal which we would very much like to see heeded.
i suggest. the council has not received any information from the member states concerning the implementation of decision 2002/187/jha establishing eurojust. the council would draw the attention of the honourable member to the fact that the decision does not require member states to communicate this information to the council. it is, however, aware that the commission is preparing a report on the implementation of decision 2002/187/jha; the commission has been informed that it intends to submit this report to the council later this year. in the absence of information on the national transposition rules, the council cannot provide the honourable member with details of the national rules which have defined the status and powers of the national members of eurojust in the period between the entry into force of the decision and today. however, the italian presidency of the council organised a seminar on the subject, which took place in rome on 13 and 14 november 2003.
as far as we know, only eight member states have replied so far, when the deadline for reply was 6 september. the problem is very sensitive because in the meantime eurojust is working and very sensitive personal data are being exchanged. i think the problem with eurojust is that the cart was put in front of the bulls, that is to say that the structure of bureaucratic cooperation was created in the absence of rules and guarantees and without concern that these rules could be complied with within the binding deadlines. i would just like to mention the moellemann case in which eurojust was involved, with the exchange of data a german liberal who committed suicide while a police and judicial operation involving several member states was in progress. the question remains: what were the rules of the german delegate in the exchange of information in the moellemann case, when eurojust claims that german rules were used, whereas the germans claim that eurojust rules were used? as you can see, mr. minister, there is a problem that must be solved urgently. the deadline of 6 september was not respected: it is urgent action that is being called for.
it is sometimes said that when the european union is unable to make policy it creates an agency, and this is the risk we face: the commission has also proposed that the european union should take a more proactive approach to military and defence policy, from a business and competition perspective. the risk is even greater if we act from a european protectionist point of view. the aim should be to design, like europe, a security and defence policy in an innovative way for stability, for peace and against dictators: that should be our policy. the rapporteur mentions the need to control arms exports to third countries, and i am thinking in particular of dictatorships. today in europe this kind of control is not carried out, but we are giving arms to dictators all over the world. another point concerns civil costs. the european union is not doing enough, or almost nothing, in this regard. the commission says we must not copy the united states. of course you are! but then, in order not to copy the united states, it would be a question of seeing whether we can convert our military expenditure and structures into civilian expenditure and structures, which might perhaps act in a complementary - not competitive - or alternative but complementary - way to those of the united states.
we have heard from the rapporteur and the commissioner that we are faced with a new generation of schengen information system, which is very different from the previous one and therefore has a different meaning and a new responsibility towards the citizens of europe. sis i was set up as a compensatory measure to allow the free movement of persons, but in recent years its perception has changed towards being a useful tool also in the context of police cooperation. in short, sis ii and sis i data can now become a useful tool for purposes other than those originally intended. the enlargement of the european union also requires the development of a second generation information system by 2006. therefore, the council framework decision on the european arrest warrant and the surrender procedures between member states still provides for the use of sis, and therefore the need for its timely updating. on this basis, the council should promote a public debate on the nature of sis and the policy objectives to be achieved with sis ii, to ensure that the development of this new system is carried out in a transparent and democratic manner. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the eu's information society. an agency headed by a board of directors composed of representatives of the european institutions and the member states; it is also an agency funded by the eu budget and therefore subject to parliament's control. a rapid and final location decision by the central sis is therefore required. in addition, a study is needed on the possibility of combining the different databases that exist today or those that will be launched in the coming months and years - the sis, europol, vis, eurojust and so on - on the basis of a single technical platform, to create a comprehensive and integrated information system throughout the european union. in this context, particular attention should be paid to the impact such a system could have on privacy, human rights and the risks inherent in the inclusion of biometric data. the citizens will therefore need to be well informed to avoid unpleasant surprises. finally, a theme which might seem a little out of place, namely the immigration emergency. it is clear to all that the illegal entry of illegal aliens into the free movement area of the union calls for an unforeseen role for the sis ii: the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the schengen information system.
commissioner, i could perhaps, as usual, raise the problem that these developments in sis are taking place without common data protection rules. it is therefore a gradual transition from a compensation instrument for free movement to a police cooperation instrument. instead, i'm going to use my time to simply ask for a christmas present: bring us a nice table by christmas with a comprehensive list of what data is processed and how it has been processed within all these databases; the data subject's right to access and correct data concerning him or her or to correct any misuse of his or her data; the arrangements for each type of data to be transferred outside the european union. commissioner, i don't know if i'm particularly careless or incompetent on this subject, but i haven't yet been able to find a source, a document, anything that indicates what data is being transferred, how, where and with what rules. when we get this document, we'll finally know what we're talking about.
mr president, i have never had the honour of speaking for three long minutes in this beautiful chamber. i thank you for this courtesy and for this gift that you give me, and which i particularly appreciate because i have to speak about women. it's a subject that fascinates me, mr. president. i am fascinated by this because i am convinced that the struggle of women to have at least the same weight as men and to be considered equal to them is just, sacred, and this goal must be achieved by any means. i therefore thank mr kratsa for his commitment to presenting this commission document. i do have one question, though: but is the money allocated to this purpose sufficient? silence is consent, says an italian proverb. you are silent, mr president, but i think you will agree with me that they are not enough. i have calculated that, every year, this programme for women spends five thousand euros a day - not five euros, but five thousand euros - per woman: it's really small! let 's look around . what progress have women made, and in political life and in working life and in social life? in political life, mr president, how many women have been vice-presidents and presidents of the european parliament? and how many women have been or are presidents of the european commission? no, commissioner kinnock, not in the past or in the present. let's hope for the future. in politics, women elected are an incredible minority. now, i hope that the contributions for women's programmes will be distributed in a democratic way, not in the way so much criticised by mrs kratsa and the other speakers before me. i really hope that they will help women to become aware of their possibilities and their capacity to enter fully into the various political levels, regardless of political grouping: whether you're right-wing or left-wing doesn't matter. women must also have political power, not just the power to be the queens of our homes.
- ladies and gentlemen, i would like to welcome, in your name and in my own name, the members of the kyrgyz parliamentary delegation to the fourth meeting of the european union-republic of kyrgyzstan parliamentary cooperation committee in strasbourg, and i would like to welcome them to our institution. the delegation consisted of four members and was chaired by mr sooronbay jeenbekov, vice-president of the kyrgyz parliament. (applause) we welcome the continuing development of relations between our parliaments, particularly following the entry into force in 1999 of the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and kyrgyzstan, as well as the progress made by that country in the fight against poverty and the consolidation of a democratic state. i am convinced that the work of the fourth parliamentary cooperation committee will be another important step in strengthening cooperation between the two parties, which are inspired by the same democratic values and share the same commitment to the rule of law. (applause) i would like to thank
- (it) mr president, since the various versions of the joint declaration on the european union-russia summit are not compatible because they contain divergent translations - the official version is the english version which says 'presidency of the council of europe', whereas the french and portuguese versions say 'italian president of the council' - and since the other versions could present the same error - it goes without saying - and since these two definitions make the provisions underlying the above paragraph incomprehensible, i ask you, before proceeding to the vote, whether it is possible to align all the versions or, if not, to postpone the vote on this resolution to the next part-session in brussels.
president, since the joint resolution on the eu-russia summit is not compatible with each other in the sense that it has different translations, the official english version is 'president-in-office of the council' and the french and portuguese versions are 'president-in-office of the council'. president of the italian council and since it is likely that the same error could be made in other versions and since the two different definitions make the reasons for the paragraph above incomprehensible, i ask you, before we go to the vote, whether it is possible to have all the versions that are satisfactory or, if not, to postpone the vote on this resolution until the next partsession in brussels.
- (it) mr president, i would just like to know which version will be printed. is that the correct version? or does the printing house already have the wrong version? we cannot continue to make national policy in this house of the european parliament!
mr president, i just want to know what version will be given to the press. the right one? or has the press already got the wrong one? it is useless to continue to make national policy from the chamber of this parliament!
- (it) mr president, it is a decision on my part that has given rise to this vote: for some it is a meritorious act, for others a mistake. the problem is that the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee was divided into two equal camps: seven votes for and seven votes against. my choice could have been political - to follow the line of my group - in which case the legislative procedure would have led to no action, that is to say, no directive. however, i made my choice on the basis of institutional necessity: the delegation being divided into two equal camps, i considered, as president, that it was appropriate to refer the decision back to the plenary assembly and to answer in the negative to the question: 'is it right that a legislative procedure leads to the rejection of such a measure with such a limited margin and a delegation so divided?' it is preferable that the decision be taken by the assembly in a transparent manner. perhaps my decision - which was, i assure you, difficult and delicate - is wrong, but i wanted to explain the reasons for my attitude. i would like to add, mr president, that i shall abstain today to remain consistent with the institutional vote. finally, i would like to thank the delegation from the european parliament, which participated in the work of the conciliation committee with great passion and discernment. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the vote is based on a decision of mine: some people are grateful, some are guilty. the problem is that the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee was split in two: seven for and seven against. my choice could have been political - that is, to follow the indication of my group's vote - and in that case the legislative procedure would have ended in nothing, in other words no directive. i chose instead on the basis of an institutional need: i think that the commission has a duty to make a statement on this matter, and i think that the commission has a duty to make a statement on this matter. i said no. i said that the commission had not been consulted on the matter. it is better that the decision be taken in a transparent manner by the house. it may be that the decision - i assure you, difficult and painful - is wrong, but i wanted to tell you the reasons why i acted in this way. i would add, mr president, that in accordance with that institutional vote, i shall abstain today. finally, i would like to thank the delegation from the european parliament which participated with great intelligence and passion in the work of the conciliation committee. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. after the words neighbourhood policy, the words is not least should be added. i think everyone agrees.
- mr quadras roca, vice-president of the commission. approval of the minutes of the previous sitting: see minutes.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i should like to begin by thanking mr rocard, who is not here, for raising this matter in the european parliament. commissioner, it happens very often that the wrong people are criticised, as mr perry has already said. well, there's no legal basis for that. i think that the political will is also lacking, or at least lacking. and if there is no political will, then - as in this case - we will try to solve the problem, at least partially, for a short transitional period, without finding a sensible solution for the future. we know from experience, as politicians who are concerned with europe, that national politicians have a strong tendency to blame brussels for their own shortcomings, mistakes and incompetence, and to blame them in this direction. it's easy, it's often well received, and there's usually no threat of punishment. i believe that information sites on the european union counteract this trend. they know the media coverage not only in their own country. in other countries too, coverage of the european union is lacking. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if the info points and the carrefours are to be closed down and we now hear that there could be a transitional period of one year or perhaps a little longer, then this does not mean that we are going to go against the grain. we do not need an extra year or two because we have elections next year, but we need a solution for the future! i am firmly convinced, commissioner, that when we talk about pooling our efforts, as we have done on several occasions today, we must also bear in mind the need to link the offices of parliament and the commission in the member states with the info points and carrefours in order to have a greater presence in the respective territories. we must expand information services in general and we must re-prioritize. it is essential that we include volunteering in the member states in these information centres and that we seek better and more efficient cooperation with local organisations and bodies, including better financial cooperation.
mr president, i thank the members who have brought this oral question to the house, but i find it too soft and too general for the seriousness and complexity of the problem it raises. the very answers of commissioner kinnock - overly cautious, almost embarrassed - confirm that, on the contrary, all the precariousness we denounce is real and that the problems are real. we had already submitted a written question on 9 october this year: i am the first to sign it, but 48 meps from all political groups have signed it. this question reflected, in a much more detailed and precise way, the concerns of all those who have been working - some for many years - at the info-centres, info-points, carrefours, all the european information points. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to answer this question. it began by pointing out that the european parliament, just as it is doing today, has on several occasions stressed the importance of these networks, which have been set up in all the member states, in the field of information and communication policy. the commission has also expressed a similar opinion, in two official documents: communication no 354 of 2001 and communication no 350 of 2002, which end with more or less the same words: the info-point, the info-centre and the carrefour are invaluable assets for their experience, flexibility and immediate proximity to representatives of civil society and citizens. president prodi himself had praised these institutions, in the same way as he had answered another question on 27 september last year. he said, among other things: the understanding of the actions promoted and the projects implemented by the european union is advanced by means of information networks. that is why we are even more disconcerted and bitter when we read the letter of 29 september this year, in which the press dg, contrary to all these good premises, notified the national structures hosting the networks that the renewal of the convention for 2004 will no longer give the right to a grant, while for the future the commission will assess - these are the words - new forms of cooperation. this is all due to the entry into force on 1 january of this year, as the commissioner has pointed out, of financial regulations 1605 and 2342. this is a new and unforeseen situation which calls into question the very survival of the networks and, in any case, drastically reduces the capacity for dialogue with the citizens, at a time when, on the contrary, this dialogue should be strengthened. there is a great need, mr commissioner, an infinite thirst for knowledge, as some of my colleagues have said, even from opposite sides, at a time when we are approaching the european elections, when the european constitution is taking shape and when enlargement is about to take place, which will surely represent a new frontier, more advanced than this need for information. i therefore stress the urgency of the questions raised in this written question. what does the commission intend to do to take timely action, for example to give legal personality to carrefours and info-points by applying articles 54, 55 and 185 of council regulation 1605 of last year? but above all, there is an immediate response for 2004: it's a bit too small to say "for a year we guarantee, then you don't know". i say this with particular reference to the most disadvantaged areas, those rural carrefours which, especially in mountain areas, are often the only and irreplaceable sources of information and a sign of the closeness of the people, especially in those disadvantaged areas, to the european institution.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by greeting mr vo van ai, president of the committee for democracy in vietnam, who is in our gallery with mrs volkner, vice-president of the same organization. i think - and mr casaca has said this - that our parliament is tired of having to go back to the vietnam issue, is tired of the lies and promises of the hanoi government, and i think that this situation cannot go on. the us congress voted yesterday a resolution very similar to the one we are about to vote on, which i believe is another demonstration of fatigue on the other side of the atlantic. the matter is in the hands of the commission. we are well aware that there are problems within the council, where a state called 'the homeland of human rights' is cultivating some imperial nostalgia, is very careful about selling some airbus or harbours some very strange anti-american motives. this is a well-established fact, which should be clarified. unfortunately, the council and the member states are very often absent from this assembly. the commission's problem remains: the joint committee commission will meet tomorrow with the hanoi authorities and it is high time that the commission, which has a programme with a budget of tens of millions of euros for aid to legal reform in vietnam, raised the question of the legal status of the unified buddhist church and other churches. the commission should make it clear to the hanoi authorities that, in the absence of progress on this precise point, aid to cooperation will be suspended immediately. i believe that without a strong gesture from the commission at tomorrow's meeting, this further resolution of parliament will be useless. i therefore expect a very precise answer from commissioner kinnock on the position the commission will take in brussels tomorrow.
commission. i thank mr belder and his colleagues for again raising the issue of vietnam in this house, at a particularly apposite time. i also echo what mr posselt said, that no one in this house or anywhere else should fail to understand the critical importance of free people in free institutions, communicating their concern about those who are not free and who suffer because of their efforts to observe or assert their own opinions and beliefs. everyone in this house, myself included, has had many encounters with people who have suffered grievously for the beliefs they hold and for resisting oppression. it always comes as a great inspiration to hear from them that, even in the darkest hours, in the deepest jails and in the worst conditions, they had their spirits lifted by messages from outside. the admired socialist philosopher aneurin bevan said that each freedom is only made safe by adding another to it. so, when we strive for freedom in vietnam, we are striving to secure our own freedoms and those of other people around the world. it is always encouraging to see the enthusiasm and energy members of this house devote to that cause. the commission has an overall policy towards vietnam, with which the house is familiar. it is to encourage and support continued progress, with respect for human rights and democratisation, and to raise concerns where abuses occur or where the situation is evidently deteriorating. the commission works closely with the european union member states in monitoring human rights developments in vietnam and participates in all eu troika approaches to the vietnamese government on human rights issues. i can assure the house that the commission and the member states have repeatedly urged the vietnamese government to respect political and religious freedoms and strengthen economic and social freedoms. article 1 of the european commission-vietnam cooperation agreement of 1995 states that respect for human rights and democratic principles is the basis of our cooperation. as we informed parliament on 15 may, this allows the commission to discuss human rights issues with vietnam, for example in joint commission meetings held under the agreement. since that debate six months ago, the commission has proposed further reinforcement of the eu's human rights dialogue with the vietnamese government, in the light of the eu's experience with dialogues in other countries. that proposal, which has been accepted by the vietnamese side, aims to encourage and support the continued commitment of the vietnamese government on human rights issues. so far agreement has been reached on the dialogue, which will include all departments with responsibility for human rights-related matters, including the ministry of foreign affairs, the ministry of justice, the ministry of the interior, the ministry of public security and the office of the prime minister. while the commission cautions that sweeping changes cannot realistically be expected, we look forward to further incremental steps that start to meet our concerns. the human rights dialogue with vietnam is taking place on two different but complementary levels: the eu-vietnam dialogue on human rights between eu troika missions in hanoi and the government, which will next convene on 26 november, and the ec-vietnam joint commission, which is to take place tomorrow. we also note that vietnam’s parliament, the national assembly, has expressed an interest in entering into a constructive dialogue with this house on these and other issues. far be it from the commission to suggest how parliament should respond, but i know it will seize eagerly on any opportunity. as regards the state of religious freedom in vietnam, the vietnamese constitution as mr mann reminded us enshrines the freedom of religion as a basic freedom of the republic. however, that freedom is limited and some would say contradicted by other specific laws. we hope that these restrictions will be relaxed and we have made that case explicitly and repeatedly to the vietnamese authorities. as mr belder mentioned, there are reports of increased harassment of some christians especially montagnards and hmong christians since the uprisings in the central highlands in 2001. it is alleged that local authorities have tried to force highlanders to renounce their deeply held beliefs. if they looked at history, they would see how fruitless such efforts have been throughout the centuries. the house is aware of the renewed detention of some leaders and members of the unrecognised unified buddhist church of vietnam. the european commission and member states have expressed their concerns over these events, and have called upon the vietnamese government to resume the dialogue initiated earlier this year between the ubcv and important members of the vietnamese administration, including the prime minister, to restore the hope of a solution acceptable to all parties. i conclude by emphasising that it is clear to the commission that vietnam would be best served by continued and more rapid progress in the country’s reform programme, so that the administration learns to deal with a wider range of views and appreciates the value of accommodating dissent. those vital elements of liberation still have to be secured in vietnam.
- mr president, i think that is ambiguous. we don't understand what you're saying. there is no progress, but a regression in vietnam. the question is simple: is the commission prepared to introduce tomorrow, as a 'discriminatory' issue in the negotiations with vietnam, the issue of granting legal status to unrecognised churches? there is no freedom of religion in vietnam. so we have to take a step. but you are encouraging non-reforms with millions of euros from european taxpayers. it is not possible to continue in this way. either we give money for reforms and they are implemented, or we don't give money. i think that is the question the commission must answer.
mr president, yesterday newspapers across europe published the report on anti-semitism commissioned by the european observatory on racism and xenophobia. this is a report which, until yesterday, the observatory itself and the commission had denied. three weeks ago we had the eurobarometer, this time we have the report on anti-semitism, which is very worrying, and which has been suppressed. i would ask you to use your prerogatives to obtain clarifications from the commission on this matter as early as the current part-session, or to arrange for a debate on this matter to be held at the next part-session in december.
mr president, mr president of the council and mr president of the commission, i read the statements after naples. minister fischer: "i leave naples more worried than when i arrived". the commissioner de palacio: it is clear that only a minority of states support giscard's project. the minister de villepin: i will not accept any compromise on the downside. you yourself, mr president-in-office of the council, have said that austria, estonia, denmark and, to some extent, spain, poland and the united kingdom would actually, if they had to choose, choose nice rather than the new system. i have no comment. this is the photograph. in his splendid speech, to which we all applauded with joy, mr cohn-bendit said that he did not want to die for gdansk, for europe, for america or even for illness. that's good. neither did i. however, this policy, mr president-in-office, this political absence of our europe, or your europe, is condemning tens of thousands of people to death in the middle east and is damaging the fate and future of the region. i believe that, and i join in an appeal that former president cossiga also made to you, on this - on peace and war - oh pacifists, the only thing you can say is that we must withdraw our troops. i'm very happy for you. you're the ones from the '39. we now say that it is necessary, and this is the precise proposal that we make, as radical deputies of the bonino list, in accordance with international law and the law of war, to consult experts as a matter of urgency. we must urgently legalize the situation and then the un, europe, the arab league and i believe the united states must also call for an official peace process. the mistake made in italy by the allies, who were liberators then, is being repeated in the middle east. on september 8, 1943, when the italian army dissolved in one night like saddam's army, italy could be liberated in two months. instead, they waited for months. it took six months to form the republic of salò. there will be no territorial republic of salò, but we are clearly seeing the reform of the iraqi underground army, if only because it has been left without salaries. i think that italy, but today europe, must take the initiative, mr president of the council, to convene a special council session to propose to the un, to america and to the international community a peace procedure. recognising, according to international law of war, the characteristics of a belligerent in hiding to saddam and then negotiating - as has already been done, for example, in cassibile in italy - the exile and impunity, and not the immunity, of saddam. it is a concrete political initiative. it can unite france, germany, but also the american neoconservatives. italy and europe are once again reversing course, as they did in the case of the former yugoslavia. srebrenica is the face of our absence. i beg you: we live forever, as cohn-bendit would have it. we may resist disease, but we do not continue to condemn to death whole populations of the world with freedom and justice.
mr president, the words of mr antonioni, president of the council, about the progress made at the intergovernmental conference give us hope for the final outcome of the work, not only for the timing but above all for the content. there is no backsliding from the text approved by the convention. the italian presidency's decision not to make any downward compromises in order to get the treaty signed was thus confirmed. the position of the presidency must be accepted by this parliament, mr president, which has this week to carry out the task of encouraging the member states to reach an agreement which will finally give europe its first constitutional charter. president cox was right to insist on the need to do it quickly and well. we fully recognize ourselves in his words and we fully share them, but we do not recognize ourselves in those of the pessimists who seem to want to give up in the face of every difficulty. i therefore share your view, mr president, that we should abandon national particularities. europe cannot afford to lose this great opportunity. i am sure that no state will take the responsibility of shattering a dream. as a popular european, i renew my call for the intergovernmental conference to include in its preamble an explicit reference to the judeo-christian roots of europe. and a word, mr watson, on the question of guantánamo: i hope you will read it, because from what i have read in the italian press it seems to me that on more than one occasion the presidency of the council has addressed the authorities of the united states to urge that human rights be respected also in guantánamo.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i listened attentively to the speeches of mr poettering and mr barón crespo, two colleagues whom i respect very much, and i noticed that the thinking on this subject was sometimes too much geared to one's own country and sometimes even to one's own political parties. it is no coincidence that the commission's position coincides with that of the european people's party. i believe that this delicate and complex matter requires imagination. europe has its own rules and the pact is a rule but at the moment we don't need any rules anymore. i believe that europe needs imagination, courage and dynamism and i believe that these problems cannot be tackled without understanding that here we are not defending the italian presidency or minister tremonti for what they have said, but we are defending a presidency for what it does, to take note of serious problems affecting large countries in this community. on the other hand, for the third year in a row - i am the rapporteur on european public finances - we have had to acknowledge that the european economy is stagnating. i also understand from the speeches of other members that european policy, as we discussed yesterday in the commission with commissioner solbes, has some problems. so why not make an effort to finally move from stability to growth. i think this is done by people who rather than being the guardians of the rules want to be the politicians, as plato once meant "the politician and his primacy" and in this key i think it is working perfectly.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner solbes, at this point in time, and with 114 seconds at this stage, it would be stupid and in bad taste to pretend in this 'vote office' to analyse the president's report and what has happened. the only thing we can say to you, mr tremonti, is that the situation in this parliament is clear. the communist colleagues and the colleagues of the social democratic left, who are statists, support you, appreciate you and share your way of thinking and acting, and against you are those who represent the elected place of president berlusconi and all his allies in this europe: the european people's party and its surroundings. at this point, let's just say that you've given us a lesson in the italianness that you represent. breaking the rules is the art of this italian ruling class; violate them according to the rule of emergency. agreements can be respected when the person who breaks them can establish that there are reasons of force majeure for not respecting them. we know that you are also a fabulous parliamentarian, even if you did it as a journalist. you wrote some wonderful things about the condons, about the deficit spending in the early '90s. for me, the liberal is a little less. because she was mixing up the ethics; she said it was unethical the condescension and the way of behaving of the old ruling class. i congratulate you, because i think that no one like you today can be an old executive class with great technical skills to tell, i apologize, lies.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly serious that the intergovernmental method prevailed over the community method in the ecofin deliberations with a purely lax suspension decision, that is to say without setting precise conditions for granting a delay in achieving a balanced budget for the federal republic of germany and france. this is a heavy precedent, which may benefit other countries tomorrow, and which is detrimental, as president prodi said, to effective coordination and governance of economic and social policies in the light of transparent and binding objectives, not only in terms of stability but also, and especially at this moment, in terms of growth. but this incident only highlights the shortcomings and contradictions that remain in the management of the stability and growth pact, which still excludes the european parliament from any co-decision procedure. this incident highlights the shortcomings of the very wording of the stability pact, which is much more restrictive and mechanical than the text of the treaty, even on the problems of flexibility. in these conditions, the schizophrenia of the union's institutions, starting with the commission, in the management of the two missions that the union has given itself in the field of economic, social and environmental policy, persists. i am talking about the lisbon and gothenburg strategies, which do not yet have binding objectives, and the stability and growth pact. these are the serious shortcomings, also on the commission's initiative, which explain why a flexible but not intelligent approach to the timing of the achievement of the objectives of the stability and growth pact was adopted, without the minimum but precise conditions being laid down, which justify the more or less long period of adjustment of the budgets. i am talking about the lisbon strategy, the binding objectives of the lisbon strategy, which must be included among the conditions for the implementation of the stability pact.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have seen that in some cases excessive statements have been made and hasty conclusions drawn on the stability and growth pact. i am also referring to president poettering: i do not think that minister tremonti has called on the member states to go into debt, but instead has said that they should look more at the substance than at the procedure of what has happened. nor do i agree with mr watson's statement about the watered-down pact. the italian presidency took him out of the water in which he was drowning. nor do i share the view of those who have said that the covenant is dead. if we look at the facts, however, we cannot but agree that, on the contrary, the pact is still alive and that the italian presidency has succeeded, even in an objectively difficult situation, in saving it. the presidency succeeded in getting a text of conclusions containing important commitments on compliance with the pact, budgetary discipline and the implementation of structural reforms unanimously adopted, with the agreement of the most rigorous states. this has not been discussed in the member states, much less in the european parliament. the commission's recommendation is simple: the commission has submitted recommendations which, in full compliance with the treaty, have been put to the vote by the council. the council rejected them, as the majority required by the treaty was not reached. what should the italian presidency have done? is it to take note of the rejection of the commission's recommendations and not take any further action? leave france and germany free to act? so, then, should we make all the work we have done up to now worthless? i think that in this case we really should have been talking about the death of the pact and unconscious behaviour on the part of the council. the italian presidency has chosen the only way to safeguard the pact. faced with the impossibility of approving the commission's recommendations, it proposed approving a text of conclusions in which france and germany commit themselves to implementing the measures for deficit reduction and to temporarily suspend the procedure.
mr president, i feel obliged to speak on a matter concerning a dramatic judicial incident in italy which has affected the current senator for life, giulio andreotti. a person known at european level, a leading figure at community level. i've been waiting for the court of cassation to rule before we discuss this matter. i was even more expecting the reasons given a few days ago by the court of cassation, in which not only is senator andreotti acquitted of a torment that lasted ten years and of absurd charges that concerned nothing less than the murder of a person, but stigmatizes, in the reasons i have just cited, the absurd behavior that the court of appeal used in condemning: personal theorems that can't be supported by any evidence. i therefore believe that the ordeal of this man, a senator for life, one of the personalities who made a decisive contribution to the building of democracy in the country and one of the fathers of our europe, should be emphasized very strongly and it should be said that there is a sector, obviously superficial if not subversive, of the italian justice, which has imposed this situation for ten years, which has alarmed both italy and europe. i therefore ask you, mr president, and i am sure that i am following not only the wishes of the group of the european people's party, but also the views of the whole of the european parliament, to pay solemn tribute to senator andreotti for the clarity, the farsightedness and the great democratic correctness which have characterized this valuable and useful figure of our europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my speech is about the maccormick report on european governance and - as the rapporteur rightly said - a europe united in diversity. the commission communication which underpinned this debate, to which commissioner fischer referred first, proposes tripartite contracts and conventions binding the community, the states and regional and local authorities. it proposes that community rules be adapted to situations characterised by major environmental and demographic diversity and to the different union policies, from transport policy to regional and territorial policies and so on. it is an important choice, but it should be noted that it will be the beginning of an experimental phase in which we will have to take stock of the lessons to be learned, which will be partly procedural but which, as has already been noted, may also concern the better management of the community's regional policies. we know that these are conventions which are bound by an obligation to be compatible with the treaties governing the life of the european union and to make adjustments which must not create obstacles to the functioning of the internal market. in essence, the principle to which the commission refers in this communication, which is correctly reflected in the maccormick report, is that of flexibility. this principle implies respect for the different constitutional systems of the member states, but it recognises that in some states there are constitutional systems which attribute to the regions and local authorities responsibilities of extraordinary importance which should not be undermined, although, in these cases too, it is necessary that the increased demand for democratic participation does not create situations of inequality which could also run counter to the guidelines set out in the constituent convention. the tripartite agreements cannot however derogate from the provisions of secondary law applicable to the whole of the european union, because, as i said earlier, this is the only way to remain consistent with the guidelines of the constituent convention. the aim is to improve the implementation of community policy. it is therefore important that the tripartite conventions and contracts set clear objectives motivated by the need to take account of the diversity existing in the territory of the union, although, on the basis of this experience, it will also be possible to revise a policy for the management of community policies that goes beyond the problem of diversity and that deals more thoroughly with the more general problem of democracy without, however, compromising - i believe this should be emphasized - the uniform application of community law throughout the european area.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to congratulate mr bösch on his report and express my appreciation for his firm stance towards those directly and politically responsible for the fraudulent acts which have been charged. a prayer to the commissioner: i would ask you not to try to minimize the eurostat case, which is and remains one of the most disturbing and scandalous episodes that the european parliament has ever experienced. the enormous and consequential economic damage has not been, and perhaps never will be, quantified. let's get to the report. if what mr bösch has said in his report is implemented, we shall live in a very peaceful europe. the financial interests would be protected, legality would be the overriding component of all european affairs. but if the stated principles, summarised in recital (c) which reads: 'the european commission has committed itself to a zero tolerance policy in relation to fraud and irregularities', are not translated into practice, all that is written will not make up for the effort made by the rapporteur in his report and will not achieve any concrete objective. so, as has been revealed by eurostat, it would have been no longer straightforward to have my amendment passed in committee. fortunately, however, there was an explanation on this point by mr bösch, which reads as follows: it can only condemn all the cases in which olaf failed to complete its investigation within the prescribed nine-month period, and in particular the one concerning eurostat, which has been suspended for more than three years and for which a timely investigation could have interrupted a circuit which today turns out to be non-linear and, in some situations, subject to judicial authorities. this amendment will be voted on and, i hope, approved in the house tomorrow. at the same time, i do not want what i said about olaf to be misinterpreted as meaning that it cannot be used as a scapegoat for fraudulent activities carried out by others. the commission has therefore decided to extend the period of validity of the new regulation to the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2008. the rapporteur's call for article 33 (1) to be fully supported, requiring that if olaf fails to complete its investigation within the nine months prescribed, it should inform the european parliament in detail. i would like to return to the eurostat case, which causes a great deal of anxiety and irritation in many of us, and i feel i can say that it is certainly acceptable to maintain a cautious stance, but at the same time it is not acceptable to use a formulation which would be counterproductive to putting the european institutions at risk in this case. the debate and the decisions must be different. in the eurostat case, were the contracts concluded in a regular manner or was there evidence of fraud? if, as it appears from reading the reports, many contracts were concluded without the regular powers of signature, if there were conflicts of interest leading to certain and illegitimate economic benefits, if documents that were to be subject to control were systematically lost and confidential information was taken outside to facilitate negotiations, if more than 50 per cent of contracts were concluded with a single tender offer, it is clear that a damage in millions of euros was caused to the european community and this aspect must have absolute priority over everything, including the conduct of the european institutions.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after the speech by my friend michael van hulten, i am not sure whether we are talking about the report of the court of auditors or the report of the bureau meeting. if it is the court of auditors' report, there is no problem because that is precisely the debate i signed up for. first of all, i would like to pay tribute to the work of its president, mr fabra vallés, and to the work of the court of auditors as a whole. i believe that once again the court of auditors has presented us with a document which deserves all the attention it deserves. unfortunately, i fear that this document will not be read much beyond our institution, for example by national governments, by those gentlemen in the council and the ecofin council, for example, who think that it is good and right to take away powers from the european parliament when they should first look at and audit their own accounts and take the court of auditors' indications very seriously. michael is right to say that the court of auditors points out, among other things, a number of things that must also be settled at home. unfortunately, sometimes we're a little too narrow-minded. we can see immediately what is wrong with us, and that is right, when the court of auditors has been telling us for years that 80% of the expenditure managed by the member states contains an unthinkable number of errors, false imputations and problems which the court itself cannot detect in practice. i therefore ask myself when we will do our part and when we will finally put this system in order. it is our duty to be picky and to be attentive to what the commission and the other institutions are doing. as you know, mrs schreyer and mr fabra vallés, we in the committee on budgetary control have put 200 questions to the commission, and perhaps more, based on the court of auditors' report. but unfortunately, no questions were asked to the member states, because they cannot be asked. i think that is a real problem. we should find a way of understanding how to deal with this and make the court of auditors' report enforceable not only against the commission, which will be called to account, but also against the member states' accounts. the other problem is the follow-up to the recommendations of the court of auditors. for years the court of auditors has not carried out specific audits or surveys, for example on eurostat. however, over the years it has brought to light a number of problems which have never been taken seriously. for example, in the case of export refunds, the court of auditors had for years been focusing on a problem which had not been taken seriously and we ended up with the scandal we know. i think that if this exercise is not to be a blank exercise, it should be given more concrete content, at least on the following two points: how to deal with the follow-up to be given with regard to the member states and why the commission, and ourselves, do not take sufficient account of the conclusions of the report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my warmest congratulations to the commission and to commissioner diamantopoulou for this excellent document, to the rapporteur, mrs jensen, and to all the members who are coming in such large numbers from their offices to hear me speak, because they are not here to vote. i thank them because there have never been so many members to hear me as today. thank you all so much. i must say that i dreamt that mr berlusconi came to the chamber at the end of december to explain the activities of the european semester. in the dream mr schultz was still standing and, addressing mr berlusconi, he said: mr berlusconi, what if you were to fall ill somewhere in europe, for example here in france? on hearing this, mr berlusconi would put his hands - as is customary in italy - in front of his genitals as a sign of disapproval and then say: but, mr schultz, i will do much more than this important commission charter. in 13 and a half years' time, when italy is again the rotating presidency and i am still president of the council, i will ensure that all citizens can go around europe and cure all diseases. so remember to vote in favour of this document and to express my satisfaction with this beautiful health charter.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank all those who will support the conclusion of the first reading of a regulation which we hope will come into force as planned on 1 january next year. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs francisca sauquillo, the commission, the council and all those who, by accepting my compromise amendments, will allow this report to be adopted today, just in time to ensure that the regulation enters into force on 1 january next year. this is a very innovative report which, for the first time, allocates community resources to third countries to help us combat illegal immigration on their territory.
mr president, it is christmas time, so it is also a time of good wishes throughout europe. i would ask the german government, from the ear of this house, to make a gift to the former italian military internees, to the former prisoners, to those condemned to forced labour, who have not yet received any compensation for this involuntary work. i would remind you that the german foundation memory, responsibility and future direct expression of the german government and german companies decided to exclude from these benefits only former italian internees, contrary not only to the european parliament's resolution b2-0147/1985 but above all to all the rules on equal opportunities which this parliament is promoting. they're not prisoners, they're not inmates who are different from the rest. even the austrian government in 2000 decided to repair this debt. applications are due by 31 december. mr president, i would like to ask you a question. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i am saying that it should be a matter for the council. 70,000 of these internees are still alive. statistics tell us, cruelly, that every year ten percent of them are missing. we cannot accept this resolution.
mr president, i agree with the rapporteur, mr klaus-heiner lehne: the whole issue of the directive on the sale of alcohol seems like a never-ending story. starting in january 1989 with the commission's first proposal, an ambitious proposal which aimed to create an internal market for corporate control, the apa directive seems to have been, throughout its history, a kind of obstacle race, alternating between maximalist proposals unacceptable to some member states and the council of ministers and minimalist compromises unacceptable to others. i would remind you of this obstacle course when the european parliament rejected a joint proposal from the conciliation committee on 4 july 2001. but i also remember the commission's very interesting proposal of october 2002, drawn up after collecting the suggestions of a group of high-level experts. this proposal, in addition to maintaining the passivity rule in article 9, sought to achieve the objectives set by the european parliament and the experts consulted, the neutralisation of certain pre-bid defensive measures and the proportionality between risk capital and voting rights, while the more dangerous instruments such as trusts and multiple votes were unfortunately excluded from the neutralisation. another obstacle course has begun, one which we thought the presidency's insight in june 2002 offered a way out: the commission has also proposed that the member states and listed companies respectively be given the option of choosing between the model directive with a passivity rule and the neutralisation of the defensive measures type a companies or the maintenance of the defensive measures type b companies , all of which is complemented by an obligation of maximum transparency of the scheme to which a company is subject. in order to put all operators on an equal footing, it is envisaged that type a company may decide not to be scaled up by a type b company. the solution has many advantages: it indicates the ideal solution type a, the benchmark and creates reciprocity. the neutralization of defensive measures is also a first uniform rule of european company law: article 11, which allows for options, is essentially a derogation from the ordinary system. these options may be waived once the market has created the conditions by rewarding the type a company. it's not just that. under the current system, listed companies subject to regulations which do not provide for passivity rules and neutralizations can opt for litigation, which they would not be able to do without the directive. furthermore, the maximum transparency of company structures and internal rules, provided for both by article 10 of the proposed directive and by the parallel proposal for a directive on the transparency of listed companies, also under discussion at the moment in the parliament and the council, means that companies which fully accept articles 9 and 11, the stars, are the true clearly identifiable european companies. this will enable the market to reward them. institutional investors should explain to their clients why they are investing in a non-litigation type b company rather than a litigation type a company. finally, the compromise, by providing for partial pre-emptive opa, allows many countries not to change their legislation substantially without risking, at the same time, exposing companies to unfair competition from companies in other countries.
mr president, i think it is fair to say, in agreement with the views expressed by commissioner bolkestein, that once again an opportunity has been missed to modernise the capital market, first of all by means of rules which can ensure that european companies are more liable to litigation and, through this, more effective protection for shareholders. this means: i think that to call this a directive on takeovers - as mr huhne has said before - is an exaggeration. the point here is to recognize that there are different regulations and to ensure that the various countries maintain protectionist legislation in respect of their own companies, their own national samples, whether public or private. i think we need to take a much longer step: the european council in strasbourg on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the european union. the rules, as proposed by the council, remove very few of the obstacles to the litigation of companies that exist under the laws of certain states, with the result that hostile escalations - which are the norm in an evolved financial market, where capital moves where it is believed that there are margins of efficiency to be recovered, in the interests of companies and workers in those companies and other companies, in the interests of consumers of products, goods or services - unfortunately become impossible. there is also a risk that this crystallization of the present situation will lead to retrograde steps. in italy, where legislation - the draghi law - is very open and efficient in this respect, there are already calls for a step backwards, arguing that in europe they do not go as far, opening up the litigation of companies. it is to be hoped that this measure - which is not, i repeat, a directive on takeovers - if it is approved tomorrow by parliament, will create real competition between legal systems and make those systems where takeovers are penalized and hindered pay through the so-called 'football vote' of international investors. there are very few positive elements: the recognition of the protection of minority rights and the sunset clause, i.e. the idea that the debate on the subject can be reopened. perhaps that is why this measure, which is not a european law on the opa, is worth adopting. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that employment in europe, the interests of workers and the unemployed, are also protected by efficient capital markets. we do not have that today, nor do i think this directive will create the necessary conditions.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on takeover bids is a legislative act essential to the construction of a genuine internal market in corporate control: the commission has also proposed a legislative act which will give a decisive boost to the sound movement of capital in europe. virtuous circulation means more productivity, more growth, more competitiveness and - i say this to my colleagues on the left - more employment. after 14 years we are finally close to the finish line and i regret that the commission does not take the positive aspects of the current compromise. in recent months there has been a lot of cooperation between the council and the european parliament, and that is a positive result in itself. god knows what europe needs today, positive results! it is certainly a compromise, the only compromise possible today. we would have liked more, especially in my country, which has a very advanced and open legislation. we would have liked a directive which would have created a real common playing field with the passivity rule and the complete neutralization of defensive measures. we tried, but it was not possible because of the opposition of certain member states, which are now perhaps hiding behind so-called social amendments. the compromise we are voting on tomorrow reflects the state of european capitalism, which is still a mixture of family capitalism and mainstream capitalism. the rights of workers are well protected. hence the opt-in/opt-out system with respect to the level-playing field. but there is a commitment to try again in a few years' time, with the appropriate sunset clause, when the time may be right because the financial markets will have rewarded companies that have chosen to be litigated. it is therefore enough to remove article 11a, to make a few minor adjustments and a new directive will be ready for the future. with this directive and the others we are adopting under the financial services action plan, litigant companies, their governance and their budgets will be transparent. and we need transparency, given the recent cases like enron, cirio and parmalat. the choice of litigation will be facilitated by the fact that the litigating company may not be 'opare' by a non-litigating company. we have set the benchmark and we have protected it, which is better than a directive with only transparency procedures, as in the united states. all in all, we can be proud of it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to join the unanimous chorus of those who consider this directive to be important and fundamental - perhaps the most important - that has come to pass in the current legislature. i would therefore like to stress, as chairman of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, the great balance shown by mr manders in proposing amendments which go in the right direction on a subject on which exaggerations or underestimations are equally negative, as one can well understand. the directive is complex and the impact, positive or negative, that it can have on the environment and the whole production system depends on the wisdom of our balance. a directive that goes beyond what is reasonable would, in practice, risk imposing on undertakings heavy and unbearable obligations and costs, perhaps pushing them to relocate to other countries where these rules do not exist and would do so reluctantly in order to compete on the international market. i too would like to stress that the principle - not trivial but important - that 'the polluter pays', that is, that those who cause damage must restore damaged goods, is fundamental in a society that wants to guarantee a good quality of life in the future. it is also important to establish the subject matter of protection and, therefore, the resulting liability: who is responsible, for how long and to what extent. i believe that the council's common position in itself makes a positive contribution in this respect, and we must be associated with it. thus, the principle of 'wisdom and balance' which i constantly repeat and which has been the leitmotif of our whole discussion has led to the identification of protected sites, the definition of responsibility and the exclusion from responsibility of those who have complied with the authorisations and legal rules. i would simply like to add to the proposals of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, together with mrs niebler - who has done a very good job as a shadow rapporteur, as she has shown in her speech this evening - an amendment which i particularly welcome and which is aimed at clarifying the definition of 'operator', which, as it is now formulated, does not exclude the involvement of banks and other financial institutions in the context of liability for environmental damage caused by financial entities. i understand that the commission does not agree with this point, which i would like to see dealt with in greater detail, so that it can consider more carefully whether it is appropriate to arrive at a definition which does not cover all the cases which may actually arise in this area and which could lead to a claim for compensation for such damage to a financial intermediary. i think that is a fair request and i would recommend support for this directive. in conclusion, i believe that the position of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has been linked to a common position; i hope that it will be able to gather a broad consensus in the house during the vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the position of the committee on legal affairs, summed up in the recommendation of mr toine manders, whom i thank for the important work he has done, is a correct one. it does not change the substance of the council's approach, but it does clarify some of its fundamental principles, so as to bring the directive more into line with the union. in view of the impact of the rules on industrial activities, it is considered necessary to eliminate asymmetries between the countries of the union in order to avoid distortions of competition and of the competitiveness of undertakings. however, certain principles need to be clearly reaffirmed: the concept of 'operator' should not be extended to persons exercising control over activities. the identification of only potential damage is contrary to the principles of legal certainty and could therefore lead to a lengthy litigation which cannot be dealt with by the available technical and scientific instruments. operators responsible for the damage should be able to take the necessary measures directly and inform the competent authorities in a timely manner. the intervention of the authority, both as regards preventive measures and measures to remedy damage, should be limited to cases where the operator is unwilling and unable to intervene, as it is not acceptable that the authority itself be left with the unquestioned discretion to take the measures in question directly. it is therefore clear that such intervention is necessary only in the case of 'orphan' or 'public' sites, that is to say, in cases where the operator does not provide. these provisions need to be clarified in order not to leave too much discretion to the different member states. in the text of the common position, exceptions relating to damage caused by an emission, activity or event which is permitted by the applicable rules and regulations or by the authorisations granted to the operator, or which is considered to be harmful according to the state of scientific and technical knowledge at the time of emission and the performance of the activities, may constitute a discretionary derogation of individual member states. as regards the award of costs in the event of multiple perpetrators, the council left it to each member state to provide for both a strict liability and a proportional liability, depending on the national legislation in force. the imposition of financial liability in the form of a lump sum, in addition to being clearly contrary to the 'polluter pays' principle, would certainly make it more difficult, if not impossible, for operators in the productive sectors to quantify insurance cover and other financial guarantees. the allocation of responsibilities and related costs must therefore be carried out only in accordance with the criteria of fairness and reasonableness, and it must be provided that each operator provides for the part of the reorganization corresponding to its share of responsibility.
mr president, to assess your work as president of the european council, it would suffice to say today that the union is no stronger and no more united than it was six months ago. that the contribution of your government to strengthening the cohesion lost in the battle for iraq has been insignificant; the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. or we could point to the involuntary participation of minister tremonti in the ecofin attempt to dismantle the agreements reached by the budget convention, or the scandalous behaviour of minister lunardi, who is pushing for european funding for the major projects that his company would like to build. but his presidency will be remembered by europeans above all for the failure to agree on the text adopted by the convention. and this will happen even if you, with the help of your television, manage to convince the italians that it was a triumph, because you got the food safety agency to be based in parma, as well as an agreement - for now virtual - to finance a couple of tunnels and a useless bridge. of course, it would be unfair to say that the responsibility for this failure lies entirely in the approximation of his preparation or in his original method of "bilateral confessionals" without a plenary debate, which prevented anyone from having a precise idea of what his mysterious compromise proposals were and who was against or for what. and yet we think that the agreement that was coming would have been - by no means - more problematic than the current crisis. i 'll tell you something else . i do not think that we can really say today that there is a consolidated agreement on most of the 82 points proposed by the italian presidency, which are, moreover, largely unacceptable because they represent a step backwards, not only with regard to the convention but also with regard to nice. like it or not, the only text on the table today is the one approved by the convention. the weakness of your presidency and the spanish and polish governments are not the only ones responsible for this crisis. there are many others, starting with those who rejected the double majority in nice and who today stand as improbable champions of political europe. therefore, we accept the challenge of the crisis: it could be the basis for a better constitution for tomorrow. but it must be acknowledged that the governments of the old and new member states of the union are unable to reach a unanimous consensus on a good constitution for europe. it's no use, you won't make it alone! and the irish presidency will not succeed where italy has failed. to succeed in giving europe a constitution, you need us, your citizens, your parliaments, if you want to prevent the project of a united and enlarged europe from breaking down quickly in devastating conflicts over financial prospects or in disputes over national prestige. the constitution is not dead; the governments are not the masters of europe, not least because when they try to be they lose themselves in the housing disputes. we must take the initiative now and prevent the work done by the convention from being buried in some dusty drawer under the pretext of pauses for reflection or electoral deadlines. to do this, we must find allies not only in national parliaments but also among those governments which share our urgency to get out of the crisis quickly by restoring confidence and credibility to the european project and also by calling for the need to abolish the veto for institutional reforms. unfortunately, mr berlusconi, i do not know whether italy is part of this group today or not. i hope you'll tell me. but be careful: we have not yet resigned ourselves to the idea that the newly reunited european union must now be divided or that the time has come to define its speed on the basis of the interests of some elite clubs: we don't believe in two poles or sixths. the aim must still be to revive the project of a democratic and efficient europe in which everyone recognizes himself. perhaps it is true that the agreement was close to brussels. if that is the case, we call on the irish presidency to convene a convention again quickly so that we can see in the light of day whether it is still possible to reach an agreement. if not, the prospect must be that the constituent process will be revived after the european elections. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i thank the italian presidency for the work it has done in a difficult context, both because of the international circumstances and because of the tragedies that have affected various european peoples, our country in particular. the memory of those who have died for freedom and democracy in iraq will remain indelibly in our political commitment. the italian presidency recalled that the primary assets of society are the maintenance of peace - and therefore the all-out fight against terrorism and disruptive forces - and the pursuit of a stable well-being for our peoples and for all the countries whose populations live in difficult, tragic conditions either because of hunger, poverty or lack of development or, as happens in too many cases, because of freedom-killing political systems. the presidency reaffirmed that the path to a stronger, freer, more independent and more united europe must be a new institutional path, which cannot be the result of downward compromises. european citizens need clarity and efficiency, and the council has a duty to define unequivocally the role that europe must play in the international context on the political, economic and cultural levels. terrorism cannot be defeated by conventional methods alone and without the involvement of citizens. the globalisation of markets requires new financial and economic rules compared with those obsolete in the last century. cooperation must be renewed, especially in the geographical areas closest to us, and we must pay new attention to those countries with which we share linguistic and cultural similarities. mr president, i express the regret of the national alliance and my staff as a member of the convention for the failure to agree on a new treaty, reaffirming that the union cannot have states of higher and lower rank, nor individual or coalition hegemonies, and become a two-fronted john. a new treaty is needed and everyone must abandon the mental reservations that stand in the way of political union. it is a question of implementing the commitments made to the citizens and we are sure that italy will give all its support to the irish presidency so that what did not happen yesterday can be achieved as soon as possible. the citizens of the 25 member states of the union want neither a federal superstate nor a europe based on free trade. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, this europe has been, in relation to itself, the same europe as we have known in relation to the balkan crisis and milosevic's barbarity. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the middle east, and it has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the middle east. we have not, and you have not, succeeded in putting a constitution, a constitutional treaty into effect, because we are now living in a time of reaction by bureaucracies and nationalist illusions, which now also have a neo-ideological power in this assembly. the united states of europe, the europe of spinelli, the europe of rossi, the europe conceived in prison by the intransigent federalists, liberals and democrats, are not here. but there is no schuman europe, nor is there an adenauer europe. the accent of the honourable baron crespo is excellent. there is a europe which had disappointed its friend easter a little, but which now finds its old position, essentially anti-european and anti-federalist, in its friend chirac. and you, mr president-in-office, paid for your illusion of compromise and treated in the same way the small but understandable short-term selfishness of spain and poland, only to give in to the constant arrogant and nationalist blackmail of a france which is accustomed to being the only one to take advantage of europe. now she could start paying, too, like we all did. mr president of the italian council, you have certainly failed to remember and to have sufficient confidence in those who, more in prison than on luxury holidays, have dictated to us the course set by this parliament in the period 1982-84. it is from this point of view that we must begin again, namely from the europe of our parliament, which must first of all dissect itself. it 's a symbol: we are not even masters of where we meet, nor therefore when and how. we are stuck in strasbourg. we must first set an example for the europeans. as members of parliament we decide where we will have our seat, from which we will deliberate on matters that belong to us. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, in truth, when i listened to the president of the european council, i had the impression that the failure of the intergovernmental conference was considered a minor detail in the context of a successful six-month presidency. it's not like that. the constitutional committee of this parliament, meeting last night with a number of representatives of the national parliaments, expressed a common and profound feeling of disappointment and concern and at the same time a common determination to contribute in every possible way to the resumption and conclusion of the constituent process. you can 't de-dramatize what happened . the european community has been through many crises and has been able to overcome them. this time there is a risk of a fundamental crisis in the union, in the wake of the great enlargement. this time there is a risk of a major crisis of confidence in our public opinion towards a united europe. we discussed last night how to avoid the road to the constitution being blocked. however, when the process of establishing or revising the treaties was taken out of the monopoly of governments and entrusted to a european body which also included representatives of the national and european parliaments, namely the convention, the work was done in a european spirit and an understanding was reached inspired by the common european interest. when that process is returned to the hands of the governments alone through the intergovernmental conference, the particular interests and even the prestige of the national states prevail on the crucial issues. what do you do? firstly, the line you have set out, mr berlusconi, remains valid. the constitution cannot be born from a compromise to the bottom. it would be good, however, to clarify what the italian presidency meant by 'compromise to the downside'. what was the specific compromise that was avoided? the question of a return to nice, the question of the inviolability of the treaty of nice as regards the system for calculating the majority vote? the outgoing italian presidency should say this more clearly rather than praise all the participants in the igc. secondly: don't squander the bargaining power of these months. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is also a need to talk more about an open problem: the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the revision of the treaty. finally, the irish presidency has been given a very limited mandate. our message - and you, mr cox, referred to this - is that the irish presidency should interpret this mandate in the broadest and most demanding way possible, extending its consultations to the consultation and input of the convention. mr berlusconi, you have finished your work, but italy's responsibilities do not end there, for it is one of the founding countries which, at this critical moment, can play a decisive role in providing the impetus for the development of the integration process. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i think it is impossible not to see that we are dealing with a chess game. the problem is knowing what chess it is. i believe it is the building you chose that has been defeated. you have who? the italian presidency, the convention on the treaty, the igc. you have reduced the conflict that is criss-crossing europe to a conflict over whether it should be the maximum possible or the minimum necessary political europe, a conflict between euro-enthusiasts and eurosceptics, thus obscuring the real conflict and the dramatic nature of the choices europe is called upon to make. so you have remained within the same real model and have called a model what it is not - that is, a conflict over who and how should make decisions - marking a further detachment of the peoples from political europe. the model, in fact, is a social model of a political construction, its international placement. you have chosen to constitutionalize the market in times when neoliberalism is failing and, while preferring peace, you have considered war possible in these terrible times when the world is torn apart by wars and terrorism. critical adherence to the atlantic framework denies the ambition of an autonomous europe. you have not chosen the ambition of a model, resting on an adaptation and a floating, which in fact turned out to be a picture of quicksand, which has exalted the conflict of power between powers and between countries. and so the building exploded. now it would be good if you at least did not deny the failure, as the president of the italian council did. the liberal group chairman used the word in its crude form. and i think that president prodi has also recognized this, but i think he is wrong in thinking that the solution lies in making the convention work. in fact, i think that the outcome will be the culmination of a wrong path which, if continued, would lead to a further crisis in europe. so it is a matter of starting over, but from what point? the first point is methodological: the european parliament has a different relationship with the peoples, movements and democratic public opinion of europe. the second one is merit. three knots are placed in front of it: the european union is a global player in the world economy, social status and international position, and they are inescapable. there is not only yesterday's failure, there is also the maastricht crisis, the paradigm of the europe of markets. europe - as the president said - is caught between the us political cycle and the dollar, which favours its competitiveness and the aggressiveness of an economy like china's. the igc's response is not convincing in this respect, as it stands between a bastard keynesianism and an attack on the social conditions of workers. mr president, what is called the laces and the ropes are in fact the rights of the workers and the people. if we do not start from this reality, europe has no future.
mr president, i would like to thank president berlusconi for the six months of his presidency of the union and especially for the part of his speech which did not focus solely on the convention, the constitution or the intergovernmental conference, which did not achieve a positive result. this does not mean that europe is dead or finished. there are the treaties which remain fully in force and will continue to have effect and to function until they are replaced by a new text. i appreciate the president's speech's reference to issues closer to the people, which i do not think are of much interest if we vote by a double majority, if spain should have 27 votes instead of 28 or something like that. i think that people are very interested in the construction of major projects, in not having to queue up on the motorways, in being able to travel by fast train, in paying particular attention to employment and in opposing countries which operate in the free market without respecting the rules on the protection of the environment and workers. i was saying exactly the same thing in this parliament ten years ago. i was pleased to hear that the president-in-office had called you back. it should be added that such unfair competition is also expressed through the counterfeiting of products and brands and also in this area, once the dust has settled in ireland, i believe that a considerable effort will have to be made to protect our industries, our products, our workers and, ultimately, our standard of living. institutions are important, and so is their reform. but we must also pay attention, as president berlusconi has done, to the conditions of our citizens.
mr president, the failure of the igc can really lead to the failure of europe, because we know that, while it is a wonderful historical achievement, enlargement to 25 without a majority vote will be a nightmare: the european nightmare of division, paralysis and powerlessness in a globalised world. the accounting report that president berlusconi has been giving here for three quarters of an hour eighty-two points save for one exception: this would be the success of the igc is so clumsy as to give us a supplement of sadness. unfortunately, his concern is, once again, to try to remove the traces of failure from himself and not to point the way in the name of a great founding country such as italy. president prodi has honestly expressed the scale and risks of the failure and has begun to indicate a possible path for the future. i say yes, mr president, to an initiative by the pioneering states of a europe which does not in any way underestimate the importance of this large union from portugal to the baltic states, but which knows that it must move towards efficient and democratic community integration, based on the results of the convention. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. and that way you can get all 25 of them to the finish line. it is the goal on which we must and can unite from tomorrow.
mr president, the recent european council in brussels reiterated the importance of fundamental freedoms, including freedom of information. in this respect, how can we doubt the contribution made by the president of the council of the european union? i therefore turn to him and to you, ladies and gentlemen, to emphasize the very serious damage done to the pluralism of information by the gasparri law governing the radio and television system. in italy, almost all public and private broadcasters are controlled by the premier. the advertising market is also de facto subject to the companies it owns. it is not too much to say that this is a media coup d'état, which is setting a very dangerous precedent for the countries of the community. if the problem of the enormous conflict of interests which affects the very heart of democracy in my country is not tackled and resolved within the community, the creeping regime which is suffocating italian society will be consolidated. what is the point of elections if the president of the council controls most of the media? i am speaking to you, ladies and gentlemen, with bitterness, concern and anguish, and i ask you: what can this parliament do to protect freedom of information in italy? help us, help my country to save the democracy for which the fathers of our europe fought.
mr president, the procurement directive, the single european sky directive, the public procurement offers directive, the agencies, the concrete work on economic growth - let us just recall the decisions taken on major projects and the financing mechanisms linked to them - and the careful analysis initiated by the italian presidency, followed by concrete proposals, on the subject of competitiveness, a subject which is at the heart of a lisbon process which is struggling to be realised as we would like it to be; concrete actions on the issue of immigration, which must take place within the framework of legality with flows regulated by the needs of individual countries, with particular regard to the agency for border control; the euromed parliamentary assembly and the foundation for intercultural dialogue, which will have as its first focus an assessment of interreligious dialogue, through which it is hoped to limit the phenomenon of fundamentalism, which is then the embryo of terrorism; the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the treaty of rome. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we certainly have a sore point: the process of providing the european union with a new formal constitution has stalled. and at this time we must pay particular attention to the sirens of the material constitution. we need time to reflect, because what has emerged in the heat of the moment is certainly worrying us. i'm not quoting the main characters, but the themes: two-speed europe, the exaltation of enhanced cooperation, a europe of concentric circles, where everyone shares the same policies but each group remains open to new groupings, are not the political scenario that europe at 25 needs. we cannot lose sight of the heart of the convention: the european general interest was the reason for the decision to abolish national veto rights in most cases and for proposals for a transparent and credible voting system. and it is in the general european interest that we must start again and work with new formulas which our intelligence and our will will be able to suggest to us.
mr president, today we would all have welcomed the agreement which would have given birth to the first european constitution, but it would be a grave political mistake - which some have already committed - to say that europe is finished, to hunt down those responsible and to give up in the face of the difficulties encountered along the way. that is why we must continue to move forward in the spirit of the convention and with the important results achieved thanks to the work of the italian presidency, in the certainty that the final objective can really be achieved. it is worth remembering that 95% of what was decided by the convention was approved by all the participants in the igc. it should also be noted that the italian presidency has kept to the commitments it made in this house six months ago, starting with the willingness not to sign a low-profile compromise that would mortify the work of the convention. the relationship with this parliament, which for the first time was finally involved in the igc's work and was constantly informed of the council's work, was also positive. the other choices of the italian presidency, as outlined by mr fiori, must also be welcomed. the work of these six months cannot be evaluated with superficiality, acrimony and partiality or, worse still, by being concerned only with the internal affairs of the countries of the union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the problems facing the community and the european parliament, and that it is not the commission's responsibility to make the necessary proposals. a word to mr schulz who, for the umpteenth time, has raised the question of the european arrest warrant. the italian presidency, as is its duty, asked all governments where national legislative actions were to adapt the regulations to the decision on the european arrest warrant. the answer was clear: three of the 15 countries will have taken the necessary measures by december. four other countries indicated the need for an additional three or four months; the other eight countries are even further behind. and of course, mr schulz, i do not think you are asking the italian presidency, or any presidency, to replace the sovereign voice of the national parliaments. the final appeal i would like to make is that we should get to work by involving all the countries, abandoning the hypothesis that a few will go ahead and leave the others alone, and looking to a europe of values which does not even want to give up its judeo-christian roots.
despite what mr tajani has said, i am addressing you, mr president, to say that in your statements you have tried to minimize the failure of the intergovernmental conference. it is the second time in a short time that the intergovernmental method has failed, and this time with a proposal drawn up by the convention, which has been fully implemented and widely accepted. what is most disconcerting is the lack of perspective in the laconic communiqué which is handed to the irish presidency. in this context, the risk of facing both the european elections and enlargement without a constitutional treaty is real, but it does not seem to upset her too much. if you would like to comment on the prospects in your reply, i would be very grateful. the end of a semester is also a time for reviewing the financial situation. in foreign policy, nothing has been attempted for an active political role of the european union and the un: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the council will take a decision on the matter. the european union is not prepared to accept the commitments it has made here, such as the implementation of the arrest warrant and the moratorium on the death penalty. we welcome the growth initiative, but it will not be enough, because only an economic government, at least in the euro area, will be able to ensure the recovery and quality of the european economy. and finally, mr president, the information. you know that during the six months of your presidency this parliament decided to examine the state of media freedom and pluralism in europe and in italy in particular. the fact that the president of the italian republic referred to the chambers the ugly and dangerous law on this subject which had been tabled by his government and voted by its majority confirms these concerns. in short, apart from the laudable conclusion to some of the dossiers mentioned by you and president prodi, how would you describe the meaning of this six-month italian presidency?
president of the council. mr president, i thank you and all the members who took part in the debate and who in general expressed a feeling of disappointment that in the 60 days available to the presidency of the intergovernmental conference, no concrete result had been achieved which, to be honest, everyone had painted as a miracle and which had been known for several weeks would not be possible. i think that this disappointment should not lead us to a pessimistic attitude towards the future. i think it's no use complaining, that you have to be optimistic all the time. i've never seen a pessimist achieve anything. only optimism, confidence and the will can lead to positive results. i also believe that we should not be divided into a 'series a' europe and a 'series b' europe: it would be profoundly wrong, because this would cool down the enthusiasm, the passion, the desire for europe and for common action that i have been able to experience in these months of close contacts with the governments - and not just with the governments - of the ten countries which are about to become members of the european union. they represent a large number of europeans, they represent a young force, they have a high level of education, they represent a large market for us, and so i think we should do everything to ensure that the old europe is rejuvenated a little by the contribution of this new europe which is - i repeat - very enthusiastically preparing to join us. we must strengthen and maintain what has been done by the convention and by all the countries in this short period of six months, because let us remember that the intergovernmental conference began on 5 october and continued until 13 december. i would like to reassure all the colleagues who have spoken on what remains of the work of the convention - which we have always tried to enhance and improve - and of the work of the conference. clearly, the final decisions of the conference, which i included in the final declaration unanimously approved by all the members, have not been carefully examined. i shall therefore read you a paragraph of it, which may perhaps seem unnecessary, but which i would like to stress: the italian presidency led the intergovernmental conference with the aim of respecting, as far as possible, the draft convention, the result of democratic and thorough debates, while also being open to examining in a constructive spirit the proposals of each member state to take account of legitimate needs. second point: this hard work has led to the drafting of a text agreed by a large majority of member states which will henceforth be regarded as an indisputable negotiating acquis, thus making a significant step forward on the road to closer integration between the countries and the citizens of an enlarged union. this means that the states which make up the council have unanimously given a political commitment not to reopen the items, which are almost all, on which there was no agreement before. in reply to the questions put by my colleagues, i would also like to remind you that these points are contained in the proposal of the italian presidency, which was presented after the naples summit, and which is available on the italian presidency's website, together with the document on european defence which represents the agreement reached in brussels on the first day of the new meeting. this is something concrete, on the basis of which we must begin to work towards an agreement on the method of majority decisions, which is the heart of the agreement to be reached, in order to have a europe capable of deciding not only correctly but also in a timely manner, particularly on international positions. only then will we have not only a europe that can play a leading role in the world alongside other powers and be a decisive factor in the development of trade and the increase of well-being, as we have committed ourselves to do, not least in the millennium declaration, but a europe that can also be decisive in making democracy grow, in exporting freedom to the world. a europe that, together with the other countries of the west, is committed to giving food, water, health and education to those who lack them: the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. i believe that this is a duty of the west and, in the west, a duty of europe, and i believe that europe can only achieve this if it can devise a decision-making method other than unanimity, because, as we saw two days ago in brussels, it is enough for one country to oppose a decision and it cannot be taken. i shall only reply to one of the objections which have been raised to me, namely that the italian presidency did not have any compromise formulas, but not downwards, on the abovementioned method of majority decision-making. the italian presidency insisted on proposing the system provided for by the convention: the state system, 50 percent, and the population calculation, 60 percent. we have tried in every way to convince the countries of this, but they have not wanted to hear it. when we found it impossible to reach an agreement, we backed down, since on all other points an agreement was possible, on time formulas, proposing to maintain the treaty of nice until 2014 and to introduce, from 2015, the system provided for by the convention. some states said yes, some states said no. we then proposed another formula, which was acceptable to the states which had previously shown themselves to be more closed: let us apply the treaty of nice as it will be applied and let us try it out for four years. at the end of 2008, we will decide by a majority vote whether the treaty of nice has worked and whether it is appropriate to maintain it. if improvement is needed, improvements will be made: if we can move to a double majority - states and population - or if we have to find another voting system. these proposals - which are neither downward nor compromise but aim solely at providing europe with a new constitutional treaty at once - were not agreed upon and, by decision of all the participants, it was therefore decided to postpone further what is therefore not the end of a discussion but the continuation of the search for an agreement which i am sure will be found shortly, i hope under the irish presidency or the next dutch presidency. the draft constitution has not therefore failed. i would like to conclude, mr president, with a word of optimism. the will of all governments to reach a constitutional treaty for europe was strong and everyone felt responsible for a lack of decision. unfortunately, we have not succeeded and i believe that if we have not succeeded, with our patience and our determination, pursued to the end, to reach decisions, it would not have been possible for anyone. everyone has acknowledged that. we believe, however, that a solution can be found - and that there is a unanimous will to do so - a solution on majority voting which will replace over fifty years of unanimity voting. it is not a simple problem, because by majority voting the member states are clearly giving up their sovereignty in many matters, and this is a very difficult birth: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think there is a unanimous will to move in this direction. the work of the intergovernmental conference over the last 60 days has been fruitful. the results, as i have said, are there and there is the political commitment of the members of the council to consider them as valid results, on which the debate should not be reopened. the new method of majority voting must therefore be worked on and i am convinced that, in the end, europe will have institutions and working methods which will enable it to play an important role for the welfare, peace, freedom and democracy of its citizens and of the citizens of the world. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i have a rather urgent question to put to president prodi before he speaks. we have just heard that, on the sidelines of the energy council, commissioner de palacio announced that the kyoto protocol is dead. now, mr prodi, i would like to know from you what the commission's doctrine is on this matter and whether mrs de palacio has acted on her mandate.
mr president, there are too many members in the chamber. i am not used to having to vote with so many members present. if you want us to wait until everyone's out, i'll be happy to wait. if not, i will begin the explanation of vote.
mr president, i voted in favour of mr lehne's proposal on takeover bids, but i thought of pensioners and non-pensioners who were unfortunately not protected, in the case of argentine bonds, from the heavy losses on their savings and investment in argentine bonds. this has impoverished a great many pensioners, workers and citizens, and i hope that the european union will take action to prevent such situations from happening again and to deal with the problems facing the citizens of all the countries of europe who have trusted in the controls of their governments.
mr president, this document deals with vat on stamps. i had a vision. it was 2013 and i was still a member of this parliament and mr schmidt was still presenting a report on stamps. in the years to come, however, fewer and fewer european citizens have used - i am speaking as if we were in 2017 - stamps and ordinary mail, so much so that mr schmidt's directive provides for the funding of those who write by paying them postage. i mean, mr president, stamps and post are becoming so rare that they will become vintage letters, just like vintage cars. this is my last statement today, and indeed for the whole of 2003. thank you and enjoy your meal.
mr president, i too want to thank you, not because it is christmas but because it is right to acknowledge how useful the experience of having had a president like terry has been, even if all these fine words sound like a 'beatification' of terry, who is a very lively, sympathetic and also very pragmatic person. i would like to thank all my colleagues and the coordinators for the hard work that has been done over the years. i would also like to thank the general secretariat and, in particular, an italian, dr de feo, and all his collaborators. i would also like to thank the commissioner, although we have had some heated discussions within the committee: the fact is that young people like me want to make revolutions, but in the end they can't and try to contribute anyway; i would like to thank the commissioner for his work and for the work of the directorate-general, which is now being led by dr romero. i would like to say that the work done by the rapporteur in this budget, alongside the rapporteur, is important and valuable. i would like to stress my agreement with the proposal to set aside administrative expenditure, especially for job creation, because we need more information. i would like to ask that the funds for the info-points which we were able to recover only in the conciliation process are not only paid out this year but also in the next few years. as regards the tens, i want to publicly thank everyone for the support given to this programme, although i do not agree with the criticisms made this morning of minister lunardi, which may have been partly due to the envy of some political groups. i believe that the work done with the italian presidency over the years with my report is something unique, and i would like to emphasize this. finally, i would like to thank you for your support for the amendment on the centre for the disabled, which will be tabled during the vote on the budget, which i think is a very appropriate step.
- mr president, commissioner, i too would like to join in the sincere and genuine thanks to the rapporteur, to the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr wynn, who led the negotiations with a master hand, and to the italian presidency. we must give back to caesar what is caesar's and recognize that, although we have had long, difficult hours in the conciliation process, i believe that the italian presidency has made a major contribution to the final result, particularly as regards the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument. when we consider what is happening in iraq and the prospects that are open to us, it is regrettable that we have had to fight and fight over peanuts, when the needs of the region and the role that europe could play in this are so much more important than the 95 million euros that were won after tough negotiations. we can imagine all the reservations we may have when voting this budget, when we see the threats that are looming over us, the retaliation, the meanness. six countries, including some of the founding countries, are now coming to us to say that we still need to limit a budget which is already ridiculously low in relation to the needs and ambitions of europe which the letter of amendment we discussed this afternoon represents. i think we have really fallen to a very low level in our debate on financial and budgetary policy. we realise that some countries, by carrying out their threat, would both want to challenge the countries which supposedly prevented the adoption of the constitution and, above all, to back down without taking into account not only our institutional role but also the ambitions that europe should have. this threat is that, at a time when the great europe is expanding to 25 and tomorrow to 27, at a time when the great hope of the new democracies is to cling to democracy, to offer for any answer, not what we have done for spain and portugal, but to step back from today's realities which are already so modest. why do the signatories of the agreement not then abandon the cap? i would say to president chirac that it is already possible to save half the budget, to redistribute it to other forms of financing by abandoning, for example, the common agricultural policy. export refunds could be waived, since in any case cases of clear fraud were detected. we have to be a little serious. in this respect, it is regrettable that this weekend's negotiation on parliament's role in the budgetary procedure failed, as indeed did the whole negotiation. i believe that its success would be a step forward for europe. as regards the role of parliament, i think it has shown more rigour, more european spirit in the work done to draw up a budget. in this connection, i pay tribute to the rapporteur, jan mulder, for having kept his head above water despite a council which did not conduct the negotiations by chance, as he did, but in order to arrive at the proposals we know. i therefore pay tribute to parliament for the 2004 budget year.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, precisely because this year's budget is the budget for the enlarged union, we must be able to grasp - as our colleagues have done - the heavy negative aspects of the excellent work carried out by the rapporteur, mr mulder, by mr wynn and by the coordinators. while emphasising the positive role of mediation played by my coordinator, ralf walter, i point out three negatives: first, the amount of payments was kept at very low levels, one of the lowest in the last ten years; secondly, in the context of the structural funds, we have seen the usual end-of-year repayment of almost €5 billion to the member states; third, the collision which has already been called for heading 4: as a showpiece, the council proposed cuts to parliament's traditional priorities to finance this year's emergency, iraq. last year it was afghanistan. it is in this context that the war between the poor has opened as usual: cutting the meda or the asia line, cutting the poverty-related disease or humanitarian aid lines, and other possible solutions. i wonder how long the flexibility tool and the careful accounting will allow us to square the circle? as if that were not enough, the whole budgetary procedure has been burdened this year by a series of attacks on parliament's budgetary powers, as we all know, in the context of the work of the intergovernmental conference. it is clear that the problem is political and wider, as many colleagues have said. the problem is that some member states are very ingenious about the union. yesterday's letter is further proof of this. as if the road we have travelled together has not proved that the resources allocated to the european union are resources given to ourselves, to peace, security and the well-being of the member states. we cannot start with the accounts and then determine the political priorities of the european union. that is why i appreciate the action of the prodi presidency and the commission chaired by president prodi: because it can give you guidance. and our political initiative, that of the european parliament, must confirm this capacity and force the shortsightedness of the member states to be transformed into a capacity for vision, to give a political direction that will enable us to recover, to give new impetus to the field of a great supranational authority. what we want to do is not just a wider union, with 25 states geographically; what we need to do is a real political subject.
i suggest. the council recalls the principles on which the treaties are based, in particular as regards respect for fundamental freedoms. the council did not deal with the specific case but notes that not all domestic remedies have been exhausted.
the answer is clear as far as the formal data are concerned, but this is not the first time that the council, as well as the commission, have been called upon to infringe article 6 of the treaty. these violations are often inherent in a vision typical of certain political-religious regimes that we have known in recent years, such as the taliban regime, in which the confusion between sin and crime becomes something concrete. this is the case we denounce: the national broadcasting council of greece, with a clearly moral assessment which was outside the scope of the office, felt that it should fine a private television station for showing two men kissing. it is clear that not all the appeal procedures have been closed, but it is equally clear that everything is in the concrete facts for an assessment, for a political judgment. the council may also make political assessments.
i suggest. in its statement of 24 november 2003,the european union welcomed the peaceful settlement of the recent crisis in georgia and said that it looked forward to working with the new political leadership of this country. in the meantime, the interim president, mrs burjanadze, came to brussels to meet with high representative solana and commission president prodi. on this occasion, she was assured that the european union would offer georgia its full support also for the next elections. as stated by the general affairs and external relations council of 8 december 2003, the union's relations with georgia, as well as those with armenia and azerbaijan, are firmly based on a long-term commitment to partnership and cooperation. the union wishes to help georgia and the other south caucasus countries to consolidate their relations with the european union. finally, i can confirm that the union has actually offered georgia extraordinary financial assistance of eur 2 million to help the country organise the next elections. the commission also accelerated the disbursement of eur 5 million under the food security programme. in addition, some eu member states have indicated that they will provide assistance to georgia.
- mr president, i thank the presidency of the council, but i must say that the minister has carefully avoided answering the question concerning the prospects for georgia's accession to the european union. is this, mr minister, an ideological question or do you think that if the european union had 35 members instead of 32, its nature would be fundamentally changed? i'd like to try to understand. as a member of the council of europe, georgia has the right to join the european union, as do the newly-recognised balkan countries. i do not see why you are ignoring this prospect, which i believe is a right for georgia.
mr president, i am very pleased with the extraordinary results achieved by this parliament and especially with the work done in the last few days, which is the expression of a great positive interaction between the various institutions. i would like to thank mrs grossetête and mr müller, mr liikanen, mr brunet and mr vittorio silano of the italian presidency, who have contributed with great intelligence and flexibility to the drafting of these compromises which have now been accepted. as is well known, the main objective of all the institutions is to finally have new legislation which will enable all european citizens to have equal opportunities and to have access, in the shortest possible time, to new medicines which are more potent, more selective and better tolerated than existing ones, if possible at a price which is not excessively high. i shall dwell on just a few points. as regards the composition of the management board of the european medicines agency, the present compromise proposal is preferable both to the commission's initial proposal and to that of the rapporteur, mrs müller, which in my view contained deeply conflicting elements. the board of directors, as approved, will be predominantly institutional, as i myself had wished on several occasions, with the addition of two representatives of the patients' association and two of the doctors' association. i am also satisfied with the duration of data protection, because this agreement, in my view, is very well balanced and will give european industries new incentives and incentives to invest more in scientific research and will enable them to respond to ethical requirements by implementing a policy of solidarity with developing countries and also with some of the countries in the process of joining the new europe. the agreement reached on the extension of data protection periods in the event of switching, as well as in the event of new therapeutic indications for well-known medicines, is also a step in the right direction. another point of the agreement concerns the strengthening of the centralised procedure for the marketing authorisation of new medicines by the emea. as i have said on several occasions, i agreed with the commission's initial proposal and i am confident that in future all new medicines will have to be subject to authorisation at emea level. finally, i hope that the pharmacovigilance system which i myself, as a pharmacologist, designed will be made more efficient and transparent in europe and that it will guarantee the maximum protection of the citizens.
the rapporteur. mr president, after this report on the legislative package on medicines, which has made the veins and the pulses tremble, as we have seen, my report is like drinking a roman chamomile for relaxing purposes. i am very pleased and would therefore like to thank both the council and the commission, but also all the shadow rapporteurs, in particular mrs roth-behrendt, who is unfortunately not here because she is affected and has apologised for her absence, and of course all those colleagues who have helped to improve this directive. the directive, as adopted, finally puts order into a very confusing and controversial field. on the one hand, it specifies the areas to which the directive applies and excludes the use of plant products as provided for by other directives; on the other hand, it specifies certain quality and good manufacturing practice characteristics in the interests of consumer health and consumer protection. while the value of traditional herbal therapies should be recognised, it should not be forgotten that improper use can lead to the development of undesirable, sometimes serious, side effects. so far, for example, the food and drug administration has recorded about 2900 cases of toxic effects, including, pay attention, 104 deaths mostly from ephedra abuse, but also serious side effects from other products that are used daily, such as st. john's wort, ginkgo biloba and even ginseng. this is why it was important to adopt a directive aimed at protecting the health of consumers, requiring high quality and safety standards on the one hand, but also requiring labels and package leaflets to contain strictly scientific, simple and clear information for the public on the potential toxicity of medicinal herbs and their interaction with food, drink and other medicines taken at the same time. as you know, traditional medicinal herbs are those used for at least 30 years, 15 of which have been in the community. however, at the request of a single country and this has been a reason for improvement of the directive and on the basis of a reasoned opinion of the technical and scientific committee for plant medicinal products of the emea, the 15 year period of use can be significantly reduced. another positive aspect, mr president, is the establishment of a committee on medicinal herbs within the emea. parliament has clearly indicated that this committee should be distinguished from the committee for the evaluation of medicinal products. it will be responsible for classification, preparation of a list of traditional medicinal herbs, updating of the list, preparation of appropriate monographs, and evaluation of dossiers in case of disputes at national level. the commission has also proposed and approved two amendments at second reading. in particular, a first amendment inserted in the recitals is intended to clarify further, if necessary, the scope of this directive, by specifying that it concerns only traditional medicinal products of plant origin, while the use of plants or herbs for food is regulated by specific existing european legislation concerning foodstuffs. the second amendment is just a clarification: it's about putting the word traditional when we talk about herbal products. both amendments were subsequently approved by the council, as is apparent from the communication to the committee on the environment of 8 december 2003. finally, this directive establishes a harmonised legislative framework for all the countries of the european union, facilitating the free movement of traditional medicinal herbs within the community. it also ensures the highest level of protection of public health on the basis of the required documentation on quality, efficacy and safety.
mr president, our group in this house is strongly in favour of a statute for members of the european parliament. we have always been convinced that it is necessary to create a statute guaranteeing equal political and financial dignity to the representatives of the peoples of europe. to this end, we have always followed and proactively encouraged all the steps leading up to the current proposal under discussion in the council. i would like to make it equally clear that we are opposed to any delaying manoeuvre. the group of the european united left calls for the adoption of these statutes as soon as possible. the principle of equality between members of the european parliament seems to us to be a necessary element of justice and clarity for our citizens. of course, as with all compromise proposals, we are not entirely satisfied with the proposal under consideration, but we will not fail to make our constructive contribution, open to dialogue between all the parliamentary groups. the most important point of disagreement is the age of retirement. the current proposal is to grant pension rights to members at the age of 63, while the group of the european united left thinks that this age should be lowered to 60. this proposal is not intended to protect the privileges of members: we do it because we believe that all european citizens should retire at the age of 60 at the latest. with my colleagues i have always fought pension reforms based on raising the age of retirement, which i consider unfair. we believe that there are financial resources to enable all european citizens, including members of parliament who are citizens like everyone else, to retire at the age of 60. as regards the principle of the single salary, we are convinced that it represents a principle of democracy and equal treatment. why should an estonian mep be paid much less than a german? at the same time, however, we realise that in certain member states of the european union, there could be situations where an mep receives a salary several times higher than that of his president of the republic. that is why we must show political flexibility. perhaps we could bring the remuneration of members of parliament closer together by taking into account the monthly salaries of the highest state officials in this or that country, but the principle of a single, uniform salary is a principle which we cannot abandon. finally, on the reimbursement of travel expenses for members of the european parliament, we would remind you that the bureau of the european parliament has drawn up a proposal which the majority of my group is calling for to be put into practice at the same time as the entry into force of the statute.
mr president-in-office of the council, as you can see, the sentiment in this house is unanimous: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. however, i would say, unlike perhaps my colleagues, that it is going very well. the problem is real: public opinion is watching us, and this system is not working. of course, calling it a statute is a bit pompous. the basic idea was to include in the statute a genuine statute for members which would also include the prerogatives of the european parliament, a common package which would give meaning to the word 'statute'. if we want the very important system of financial provisions for members to continue, let us call it by its name. we reserve the word 'statute' for when we, like the national parliaments, have common rules also for the other matters which we have included and which we must now remove for a number of reasons, or which we hope will be removed but which remain fundamental. our statute will only be valid when we provide for prerogatives, functions and effective equality for national members, such as italian members who, in italy, can visit prisons whenever they want. that seems to me to be the correct meaning of the term 'statute of members'.
mr president, i believe that when problems are important, as in the case of the statute, we must be patient, because in the end reason triumphs, awareness emerges and everyone has a moment of responsibility. i must say that in my long political career this is one of the few times that i have to express my satisfaction without rhetoric; i cannot help but do so and i cannot help but thank you, mr president, who, through the interinstitutional agreement and this statute, have quietly and discreetly made a great contribution to the cause of parliament. i think that if this unanimity that is being achieved really does produce results, this will be remembered as an important day. under your leadership we had the stubbornness - i would even say the stubbornness - of mr rothley and myself to discuss this matter with insistence and to bring forward arguments which in the end won out. i think that the italian presidency has to take credit for this - and yet the constitution has not seen the light of day - on this point, which, if i may say so, mr antonioni, is the most important. we could have achieved a result before 9 december, but that was not understood when i convened the committee so that the council could be held accountable on 9 and 10 december. but we are still in time and i believe that if we are to attach fundamental importance to the date of 15 january, we must act. i have no difficulty, if you think so, mr president, in calling the 12th committee for a meeting as of now, because, mr antonioni, this is a clear, transparent and precise act of parliament. i am in the european parliament for the first time in this parliament, but i have studied the whole long history of this problem. the first part gives autonomy, guarantees, visibility, transparency and unanimity to the rules governing the european parliament and parliament as a whole. this is a matter of amending primary law. the second part is the necessary organizational part which has been balanced by a compromise which i believe is in the interests of parliament. there are, it is true, small sacrifices, but the matter is becoming quite clear and quite acceptable. if, as mr rothley said, the words of the italian presidency are already clear, if the presidency has spoken on behalf of all the states, all the governments, i believe that on 15 january, with a preliminary meeting of the committee on 12 january, we can really solve this great problem which is taking parliament a great step forward.
mr president, it must be said at the outset that the content of the compromise which seems to have been the last to be put forward cannot be considered acceptable, nor was the original proposal in many respects. the principle behind it is certainly shared: the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty, and its role has been to ensure that all members are accorded equal dignity and, above all, that they are always reminded of a single point of reference for the exercise of their mandate, with equal rights and duties. the proposed legislation contradicts this principle in several respects: the first concerns the timing of the legislation. i believe that rivers of words and ink have already been spent on the enlargement of the union to support and comment positively on the process in its many facets. i shall not therefore add my positive remarks on this. however, it is not uncommon, especially in the latter stages, for the community institutions to adopt legislative measures in respect of which it is only in the conciliation phase that it is possible to involve the future member states, and there with many statements of regret. if that is the case, it is not clear why the same statute should be introduced as a matter of urgency, since it would be implemented without the contribution of the parliamentarians of the next member states. this would be a deliberate act of "forgetting". and then again: if the principle of equality, even in substance, is the one which is at issue, it is not clear why a member of the european parliament, from whatever state he comes, who is at least equal to, if not higher than, a national member of parliament in the exercise of his mandate, should have fewer prerogatives than that member. and in emphasizing this aspect, i am of course referring to those national legal systems which are qualitatively higher, because i believe that a system of rights which practically tends to level down the guarantees provided is not acceptable. but there are other aspects, which are less noble, if you will, but which nevertheless call into question dignity. there would certainly be nothing to object to in regard to a single source of issue of wages, but one of the first problems in this respect is certainly the amount of the same, that is to say the reference to their future amount in relation to current wages, whether they were higher or lower. i do not know how a fellow member of the european parliament could justify, on the ethical level within their territories, suddenly receiving higher, and in some cases much higher, salaries, even from a different source than the current one, but i cannot imagine that other colleagues would accept a lower salary than the one they are receiving today. this is also in view of the higher emoluments received by national parliamentarians, if not even by regional councillors of the same state. if we were to take the principle of equality for a moment and elevate it to a positive factor, the consideration expressed in relation to taxation would make everything fall into the maximum heterogeneity. nor does the compromise on the retirement age seem to be dignified. the vast majority of member states now provide for retirement in public policy at 65 or over. either we have the courage to ignore the fact that the pension scheme of a member of the european parliament, because it is practically self-financed, is outside the social spending of each state and, for the sake of political consistency, we choose the retirement age at 65, or we have the same courage to admit the essentially private nature of the fund, in which the only rules that apply are those dictated by current statistical calculation. i believe that the first to take a subordinate position, in the event of the other two institutions' inattention, is not so much parliament as its own members.
mr president, a great deal has already been said and the time i have does not allow me to repeat even the most important points. i think that no one has any doubt about the need, also from the point of view of the role and legitimacy of this parliament, to have a statute. moreover, all of us, my group, in particular mr rothley and mr barón crespo, as well as the italian delegation, have always declared our support for it and have always supported its necessity, voting for it with conviction last june. i think we can't fool ourselves, mr president. what we are discussing today - if necessary, let's do it - is not the statute; it is the emoluments regulation. i think it is a bit humiliating for parliament, but that is all it is. let's call it what it is! if that is all we can do and the council is responsible, then let us do it, but let us not call it a statute, because it is not a statute.
commission. – mr president, let me start by reacting to the last contribution. there is always the problem and risk of indirect consequences of supporting a government in a difficult situation like this. but we are very cautiously doing the right thing by not turning our backs on the country, but instead finding areas where we can do something meaningful, also bearing in mind that there is a legitimate government in the country. we have used the cotonou system to organise dialogue and to establish benchmarks along the way leading back to normalisation, and we are linking and conditioning our support to the marcoussis agreement and the process there. i have already addressed the specific aspect of fisheries. let me say a few words on the peace facility in response to mrs kinnock and mrs karamanou. i very much welcomed the conclusions of the european council last week relating to the peace facility. it was clearly stated in these conclusions that the council recognises the importance of this peace facility and it also makes the point quite clearly that the financing of these peace operations will create a noteworthy and important impulse in strengthening the capacity of the african people to create and preserve peace on the whole continent. so there was no reference whatsoever to any ways of doing this other than what is implicitly referred to here as an all-african effort. it is the case that we foresee, and the african union and the commission also expect that regional organisations should be used as implementing agents for handling individual cases. however, it is clear from the whole architecture of the proposal that decision-making is supposed to be the responsibility of the african union. this is also the prevailing view in the discussions that are taking place inside the eu. this is very important, because stability and african ownership of this process is the key to success. we look forward to the next steps in the chain of implementation, to take place shortly. i should like to say to mrs karamanou that the peace facility would not cover the cost of supporting women's organisations or other activities like that. it is very important that this facility should only cover those actions relating directly to peacekeeping or peace-building activities which cannot be funded by other sources. that is what is new in this and why we are moving into a new area of activity and a new method of funding and decision-making. all this is new for good reasons, and we have to be very careful not to overlap with what can in fact be funded through other sources, otherwise the opportunity would be wasted. my final remarks on the situation in côte d'ivoire and what we are trying to do: we are not in a situation where we have cut off or frozen spending. we have not suspended the cotonou working relationship, but we have to adapt to the situation. we are gradually trying to move forward and link it to a process of reconciliation. in fact, the country strategy paper and the national indicative programme, totalling eur 298 million, were discussed by the edf committee on 20 november and we will try ensure that the implementation of this is linked to the implementation of the marcoussis agreement. we will include interventions such as promoting security of land tenure, and good governance will also be an important element, along with support for the 2005 presidential and parliamentary elections. this is a very sad case, but we have to be stubbornly optimistic.
in conclusion, i should like to say that i have received six motions for resolutions tabled on the basis of rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
- the agenda calls for statements by the council and the commission on the lifting of the eu embargo on arms sales to china.
it would indeed be good and important, mr president, if we could let the millions of people who have taken to the streets in europe to support and recognise chancellor schröder as a symbol of europe's peace, and perhaps jacques chirac, that chancellor schröder himself, one of these great symbols of european peace, is proposing today to lift the arms embargo on china. these millions of people will not know, and the voters of the schröder government will probably not know. it's a proposal that really shouldn't even be on the table for our discussion. i am glad that the decision will not be taken today, but it seems almost certain that it will be taken tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. a decision like this, apart from the technical and formal details, would only be possible on the part of a europe which would definitively renounce the promotion of democracy and human rights as the reference point of its international policy, and therefore of defence and security. this europe does not have as its point of reference the promotion of democracy and human rights, not, first of all, the europe that calls itself the europe of peace, the europe of schröder, the europe of chirac; it is the europe of shame about china, russia and chechnya: this is europe that can challenge this point.
- to conclude the debate, i have received five motions for resolutions tabled on the basis of rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. (the sitting was suspended at 11.20 a.m. and resumed at 12.05 p.m.)
mr president, commissioner, mrs sommer, whom i thank for her work, i think that sometimes our debate would be simplified if we were a little more aware of the agenda. i agree that this proposal for a directive also serves to simplify and thus to some extent to promote the use of tariff systems through tolling, toll payment, user rights and so on, but the object of the directive is not so much the charging of tolls as the interoperability of the various systems. this was the real objective for us, since only by ensuring this interoperability can we eliminate barriers to traffic and possible disruptions to the internal market. in this sense, it is not a question of establishing instrumental or technological monopolies, but of placing the imperative requirement of interoperability. i have no objection to a decisive investment in advanced technology, in satellite technology, in the very terms in which they have been invoked by the rapporteur. i have heard many objections to the risk of "big brother". i don't like big brother, but i'll be honest with you. i don't love him no matter what his nationality is. i would not like any of us to be totally indifferent to bush's 'big brother' and only care about the european 'big brother'. if i have to choose, i prefer to choose the european family, just to be clear. one last note: the obligation of interoperability must also apply to contractual rules. the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. legal, tax and other obstacles make the mandatory reference to a single contract system more complicated.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank parliament and the conciliation committee for the work they have done on the proposal to extend the ecopoints system. i would like to thank in particular mr imbeni and the rapporteur, mr costa, and the council for the efforts made during all this time to find a solution to the problem, discussing it with the council in order to reach an agreement. i want to say very clearly, and for the avoidance of doubt, that the commission supports this commitment. i know that the austrian authorities and members of parliament consider this to be insufficient, and i understand that they may be particularly sensitive, since it is true that we are talking about transit through austria. but i would like to state once again, ladies and gentlemen, that this commitment improves the conditions of traffic through austria, for the simple reason that protocol no 9 of the act of accession of austria to the european union provides, in article 11 (5) that, at the end of a series of extensions - all of which have already been fulfilled - the whole of the community acquis will apply. the last of these extensions has already been adopted and expires on the 31st of this month. if this compromise is not adopted, then the principles of free movement would mean that all the trucks that travel in the rest of the european union would be travelling through austria. we are all aware of the particular sensitivity of this issue and that is why we have all made an effort to achieve this. i would like to stress once again that i understand that the authorities and the parliamentarians, and quite possibly also the austrian citizens - since this is a matter which affects austria as a whole with great concern - would have wished for even greater protection, but i believe that this transitional arrangement does, in spite of everything, maintain a privileged position - let us be clear - in the interests of protecting the environment in austria. we are in fact banning the most polluting lorries from passing through that country, lorries which can and will nevertheless continue to circulate in the rest of the european union. that is to say, we are diverting the most polluting trucks to other routes and allowing only the cleanest trucks to pass through austria. i think that this is an element of european solidarity which, although it may seem to you to be insufficient, i insist that it is a very important step, because we are still maintaining the points system, which, in addition to suppressing the traffic of the most polluting trucks, limits the traffic of trucks with an intermediate level of pollution, so that only the most modern and most efficient trucks can circulate freely in austria. and so, i repeat, all the trucks that are more polluting or less efficient will be driving in the rest of the european union. it is crucial that parliament votes today, as the current system expires on 31 december. however, operators will no longer have eco-points as from 1 january 2004 and therefore a decision should be taken on the immediate application of the future provisional points system and on allowing the movement of lorries in transit through austria in a clear and decisive manner, with those limitations which i would like to stress again. i know very well that this is not the solution; that the solution must be found through the urgent adoption of the euro-vignette system. today we have adopted the tele-toll system, which includes the technical elements that will facilitate the introduction of a euro-ticket system, and if we can all agree and show flexibility, we could adopt the euro-ticket system in the next three or four months, with this same parliament and this same commission, during the irish presidency. the commission will make every effort to achieve this objective, and i hope that mr cocilovo and this parliament will continue to work as they have done so far to achieve it.
mr president, commissioner, i think that what mr hatzidakis said, also on behalf of the rapporteur, explained the technical content of this difficult conciliation very well, and i think that the words of the commissioner, which i share, illustrated the political content of this very complex, very complicated decision, which is difficult to call by any other name. we, taking on board the difficulties we have understood, even if we cannot justify the austrian population, decide to grant a further privilege because that is what it is about, as the commissioner said, by extending it to a particularly sensitive area such as the alpine to the whole of the austrian territory, thus doubling the privilege, and instead of limiting it to 2004 and then possibly seeing what to do in 2005-06, we extend it automatically to 2006. this is the subject of the agreement which we are now prepared to support, well aware that it is being forced. but we also believe that for the sake of the very idea of a european community, it is right that this sacrifice should be made. other arguments are therefore out of place. overall, a compromise is reached, which is excellent and the best compromise possible because it ensures a balance between the right to mobility and respect for the environment, because it has a gradual approach, because it punishes the so-called non-virtuous behaviour of those who do not renew the car fleet and rewards those who have this virtuous behaviour, because it enhances the specificity and the delicacy of an area. if anyone wants to call themselves out of this compromise, they are free to do so, but they would certainly make a mistake: this is the best choice that could have been made and should therefore be supported.
mr president, i think that mr hatzidakis's joke about the hard work of all the members of this house is the most succinct, but most effective, definition of the work that has been done. this is a difficult task, since it is a substitute for a council which is often careless, distracted and bent on postponing the handling of a problem or its resolution to the last moment, and which has found in conciliation a point of balance and common sense for all the institutions. it is a balance between two needs, which i would like to recall: the commission's proposal is to ensure that the free movement of goods and the respect for the treaties are respected, and that the protection of the environment and the health of people is a matter of equal importance to this parliament and to austria. this means the search for sustainable development, which, upstream, must be identified in intermodality, the development of railway tunnels and the preference for rail transport over truck transport. the maturity of this parliament has also been to avoid the schematization that certain excesses in the debate would have suggested: the european commission has launched a new initiative to promote the use of energy in transport. that is not the case, as my colleague lisi also recalled. we believe that the conclusion of the conciliation procedure highlights some points of great concern for austria's needs, first of all the fact that the last extension, which was definitively set at 31 december this year, has been set aside, setting another extension which allows us to reach the end of 2006. the commissioner was reminded that while the most polluting trucks will continue to circulate throughout europe, the austrian territory will be preserved from a de facto situation that other countries will continue to suffer. as requested by austria, the scope of this regulation and the ecopoints is extended to the whole of the austrian territory, not just the alpine passes, and above all the quota option, chosen on the basis of a suggestion from the commission, which has done an excellent job, is the one closest to the requests made by austria. the commission must be acknowledged for the work it has done and parliament for the balance it has shown in taking on this difficult responsibility. we understand that austria would like to withdraw the exemption it has enjoyed so far. we hope that this will happen and that the goodness and quality of the work done by parliament will be taken into account. for these reasons, after two years of work, i announce that our group will vote in favour of the conclusions reached in the conciliation procedure.
after eight years of diatribe, we finally see a way out of the problem of the ecodots. the conciliation conclusions are to be welcomed as an act of rebalancing a situation in which austria applies a braking device to heavy vehicles, which, on the other hand, move freely everywhere, even in the alpine areas of france and italy, without any environmental toll. i would stress that this applies also to the alpine regions, and i say this to my austrian colleague who spoke of the alps as if they were the exclusive property of austria. yet the problems are the same as those in austria and the environmental damage is the same. we are all in favour of protecting our mountains and our countries from excessive numbers of heavy vehicles, but the problem is not solved by shifting the source of pollution elsewhere. and it is not enough to console ourselves with the fact that the environmental damage is paid for by very heavy tolls, which have the effect of bringing transport companies, especially the smaller and weaker ones, to their knees. the damage, in fact, remains the same despite the tolls. i agree with my colleague lisi: this is the best compromise possible, and austria should be satisfied with it. but perhaps austria had become too well accustomed or, perhaps, too badly, depending on your point of view. what then to do at this point? the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the railway infrastructure in the community. but we also need to speak very clearly to the companies that manage intermodality. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railway system is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, we have finally reached we hope the end of the process of this commission proposal on assistance and compensation for air passengers in the event of denied boarding, cancellations or long delays. i should like to say at the outset that i believe that the conciliation process has given us the best possible result, given the circumstances of a process as difficult and complicated as the one we have just discussed. i shall now summarize the highlights of this conciliation, which has therefore focused on what was not resolved by the first and second readings, but i would also like to stress the essential and rather simple concept which underlies this compromise: i would like to say that we cannot look at the rights of air passengers outside of a wider context, which sees air traffic as a system. a system in which all the actors involved, from the supervisory authorities to the managing authorities, from the airlines to the passengers themselves, are interdependent. the best way to ensure that passengers have effective rights is to ensure that this system is smooth: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of proposing a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos. the commission's initial proposal, as the honourable member will recall, raised a great many questions. parliament had tried to correct them by adopting 40 amendments. then there was a common position of the council, which we immediately recognised as having improved the text, particularly on the thorny issue of the amount of compensation, but other aspects which we had raised as parliament had not been followed up. what are these aspects in particular? these were the ones concerning the modalities of the application of the various levels of assistance to passengers in the event of cancellations and delays. now, as regards these two points, delay and cancellation, i believe that the result we have achieved is a result which largely reflects what the most virtuous airlines already offer to passengers on a voluntary basis today, and it introduces only one new element, namely the certainty of these rights for passengers, a certainty which is not limited, even if exceptional circumstances are not excluded. we have in fact convinced the council, and we are pleased to do so as parliament, that the message we have to convey is one: dear passenger, we cannot guarantee you many rights, we can only guarantee you some, but those we guarantee you are certain, they are not subject to conditions it would be wrong and counterproductive to create expectations and then see those rights and expectations denied by the behaviour of companies. i am also referring to the most basic rights, such as the right to have a drink, to make a telephone call, to be in touch with one's loved ones. we have therefore reached a mechanism whereby the services to be provided to passengers will have elements of gradualness and, above all, the element of completeness; from the minimum service on-site assistance at the airport in the event of an arbitrary flight cancellation or unjustified delay of more than 5 hours up to some sort of compensation for the damage suffered, namely financial reimbursement, which is the highest level of protection we have offered. i also think it is important to stress the agreement on the reciprocity of the right of recourse: it was an important aspect of the conciliation because it allows, for example, tour operators who were subject to these regulations to be able to take revenge on the carrier operating the service if the failure to provide the service was caused by it. the other points, as you know, are of minor importance, such as uniformity in relation to everything we introduced at first reading. in conclusion, mr president, may i thank all those who have contributed to this result, which i believe should be supported, despite the fact that in recent hours pressure from certain lobbies has been doing everything possible to make it fail.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it takes a certain push to get a subject covered. in this case, it is the impulse of mrs louise mcvay. in this case and in similar cases, we have repeatedly found that the european union - of which i am very convinced and for which we are working together - is still very cold. it is necessary to have a certain degree of optimism in order not to fall into this criticism, which is already partly stereotyped, that there is only a europe for the fast, the big, the rich, the healthy and the strong, but to believe that this europe is also for the socially weak, for the slow, those who cannot keep up with the pace. we have no difficulty in travelling. we move the money, the goods, the trucks from one state to another. we use them, we have a common driving licence, a common code of conduct. but when it comes to social and cultural commonalities, europe does not have the rhythm and speed that it has in other areas. it would certainly make sense for us to have the same speed that we have in other areas, in the social area, in the cultural area. the need and importance of action in the field of multiple sclerosis has already been discussed at length by colleagues - and i thank the rapporteur, mrs aaltonen, in particular for this - . i would therefore like to draw particular attention to this incongruence, to the fact that we have such a need to catch up in the social field. there is no common identity card for disabled people, commissioner, there is no way for a disabled person living in germany who goes to france or from italy to germany to have his status, which is a disadvantage, recognised, not even in a parking space, let alone a seat in public transport and the like. we have a very urgent catch-up here. i believe, and i am convinced, that it is not enough to simply say that we have no jurisdiction here. we must be more massive and more consistent in our efforts. i hope that this debate will also raise awareness of this. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i would first like to address my colleague who regretted that the european parliament had not adopted a position before the summit and i would ask her to address the heads of the political groups in the committee on industry who did not think this was a matter worth discussing in the chamber before the summit. secondly, i would point out that the political declaration of the summit, after months of negotiations, fortunately includes a reference to freedom of expression, a reference which countries such as china, cuba and other communist regimes - and here i apologize with my colleague alyssandrakis - have tried to remove from the un texts, without success, that poverty is the root of all evil, but perhaps the lack of freedom also plays a role. the problem now is that we have an action plan for the next two years that will channel tens of billions to developing countries to empower the information society. i believe that the european commission, madam commissioner, should pay close attention to the way in which these funds are used, that is to say, making their use subject to openings and concrete steps from the point of view of the free market, democracy and fundamental rights. otherwise we risk continuing to do what we are doing now: with our money, with public and private money, we are building and financing the systems - the software - that allow dictatorial regimes, and increasingly our own countries, to censor, filter and block access to the information society. not only that. there is also a free market problem. in developing countries, the companies that manage the internet and telecommunications are usually corrupt monopolies or oligopolies that, through corruption, suppress individual access to the internet and the information society. if, as we will, we are prepared to spend huge sums of money on these countries, let us make sure that these sums are also used for the development of democracy and human rights. let us raise the question of tunisia, where a summit will be held, which will be led, as the world organisation against torture reminds us, by general ammar, the former head of the tunisian regime's torture operations. i would also advise my colleagues not to play games, so that some of them have to deal with uncomfortable subjects while others can afford to talk only about projects, cooperation and the market, which we also like very much and which we want to promote, but not at the expense of freedom and the law.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is very positive and pleasing that the commission - and colleagues have already acknowledged this in the debate today - has contributed to this world summit on the information society and will continue to contribute strongly to the whole subject. this is all the more gratifying since the commission has, in other areas - to cite examples from my own area of interest - inexplicably taken a large part of its responsibilities away from the alpine convention, thereby contributing to the weakening and weakening of this initiative. i hope that the commission will reconsider its position in this area. as regards the information society, i believe that the right to access the network should not only be understood as providing access, but also as promoting access, especially in remote areas, in areas with geographical handicaps, that is to say, also in mountain areas. the population already disadvantaged at home by their settlement type, the dispersed settlements or the remote location should also be given the opportunity to receive network access under preferential conditions. this means that the situation in the urban areas and in the sparsely populated areas must be viewed in a different way. i can point to the example of the free state of bavaria a few years ago, which tried to open up possibilities with a very interesting offensive and initiative. these possibilities were then restricted as being anti-competitive. i believe, however, that the competition problem must be seen in a more relative light if objective criteria require different solutions. i believe that there is no doubt that the information society needs to pay more attention to a number of issues, namely data protection, privacy and certainly also the protection of intellectual property - areas which in the past could not be given enough attention due to the novelty of the medium. i hope that the catch-up needs will be met here.
i would like to refer to the rules of procedure: this was a debate without text, but in fact there is a text, a text which raises the issue of the second phase of the world summit on the information society and presents the fact that it is taking place in tunis as an opportunity, not a sign of closure of the information society. the text is not the text of the plenary debate, as it could have been if the groups had wanted it to be: the text of a written declaration on the need to make the second phase of the summit an opportunity to promote freedom and democracy, signed by mr cohn-bendit and myself, and which i invite all colleagues to sign.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to inform the outgoing members that i voted against the costa report. i voted against it purely on my own initiative, although i may have pushed the wrong button. i am deeply convinced that this compromise is not a good compromise. the fact that the parties concerned considered that it would be better to disclose the situation at all than to conclude this compromise shows that a disclosure is de facto better than this compromise. i hope that in the coming weeks and months, in connection with the road costs directive, we will be able to take steps and use the opportunities to provide the health guarantees that we need by today's standards for the people who are settling in a sensitive area, for example in a narrow valley. i would ask the house to be helpful and supportive in this respect, also with regard to the road-cost directive.
mr president, our document calls for the european union to commit itself to making the south caucasus the driving force in promoting peace, stability and economic development. however, without the constructive cooperation of both russia and the united states, it will be difficult to find a solution that is not merely abstract. the word 'abstract' seems to me to be appropriate for our document, which is rich in principles and good intentions, but which does not give us any indication as to whether these can one day be realised. in today's resolution we hope, for example, that the elections on 4 january - which are just a few days away - will include the peoples of the regions of abkhazia and south ossetia: two secessionist regions. we ask this, knowing how utopian the idea is, how much it is a matter of principle, without knowing whether this can be asked or whether it is only a very abstract statement. europe should ask, for example, what is the meaning of the granting of russian identity papers to the citizens of abkhazia and now also of the third dissident entity, because, after the forced resignation of shevardnadze, a third dissident entity is emerging, the ajaria. the meeting in moscow, after the fall of shevardnadze, of the three regions - i repeat, not two but three - which tend to separate themselves from georgia to varying degrees, also increases the ambiguity. can the european union, through its instruments and its diplomacy, understand the political intentions of the great powers, of the great players in that field? the whole question of the presence of foreign troops in the south caucasus should find a place where it can be discussed. we want to know whether the control, the presence of foreign troops, serves to stabilize or whether it creates additional uncertainty. it is part of our desire for greater stability that we are calling on the council and the commission to organise, with the united nations, the osce and other actors, the dispatch of a mission to maintain peace in the region and to relaunch the peace process. the process of disintegration, however, has reached such a point that it is not clear what kind of coexistence can be established, especially - i repeat - in the absence of the cooperation of the great powers. we must, however, make every effort, even if it seems a little abstract, in the hope of providing a starting point for the new management team, which has inherited a negative situation in every respect.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, is there any such contempt for what we are? is there anyone among us who does not believe that enlargement to the ten countries which will join the union next year is the main reason why, for at least some of them, they are not plunging into dictatorship or chaos, a situation which georgia has almost experienced? i think that's really what europe is today. i agree that we are depressed, the brussels summit ended badly, but i think that historically enlargement is a success story, it is the demonstration that the european union has succeeded. today, the problem facing georgia is exactly the same. georgia was richer than most of the soviet union and today it is the poorest part. if georgia had been given a prospect of membership ten years ago, it would probably be in the same situation as the countries that will soon join the european union. it is not a question of doing as mr meijer does. i think it is an insult to ourselves, but also to a person who has his faults but also his merits, i mean mr shevardnadze. mr chevardnaze is certainly not mr ceaucescu, nor is he mr milosevic. the problem is not the alternative, mrs de sarnez, that is left or that the georgians might have between russia and the united states, the problem is the alternative that we can give them between chaos and membership of the european union. that is the problem, and it is not a problem, dear demetrio volcic, of nostalgia for a bipolar world of the soviet union and the united states. the problem is to create an alternative, we, the european union, for these countries, for this region of transcaucasia. so i hope we will end with these unspoken words, with this inability to think beyond the black sea. the council never thought about it, they said so again last night. it is a question of putting georgia immediately on the list of candidate countries to give it the opportunity to build, as the baltic countries have done, as the countries of central europe have done, a path towards stability, towards development, towards democracy, with accession to the european union in eight or ten years.
