i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have a request to change the vote on thursday and if possible mrs evelyne gebhardt would like to explain why. we did, however, report it at a relatively short notice.
mr president, would it not be possible to do so before the vote tomorrow lunchtime?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say, in principle, that i do not think it is acceptable that the european parliament should have no say in nuclear matters. it is contrary to any democratic principle to decide on measures to promote an energy source which is already preferred without the consent of the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the volume of transactions has not been exhausted to date and the increase is therefore not necessary. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve safety and to reduce the number of vehicles in the community. euratom loans are in principle contrary to the internal market in electricity directive and put other energy sources at a disadvantage. the nuclear directive is nothing more than a check by inspectors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of nuclear installations is not compromised. in order to avoid further obstacles to free competition in the energy market, the financial resources for decommissioning and waste management must be strictly and without exception managed separately and transparently and subject to control by an independent authority. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are used in a proper manner. the general approach to the storage of radioactive waste is: the very fact that there is no safe solution to the disposal of nuclear waste shows how irresponsible it is to build new nuclear power stations. it is also inconceivable that some countries can dispose of their radioactive waste by exporting it to third countries. it is exported to countries which do not take nuclear safety seriously.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. the commission is not i would like to thank the commissioner for having presented us with two directives and for allowing us, ladies and gentlemen, to speak for the first time in this parliament about nuclear safety. this is something new and enormous. i would like to thank you very much, commissioner. and mr linkohr knows what he is talking about when he says that the commissioner has leant very far out of the window. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. in any case, the granting of euratom loans for new nuclear power stations cannot be accepted. euratom bonds - we all know this - are a distortive promotion of the nuclear industry: lower interest rates, cover for high political risks, no other type of investment in the entire energy sector anywhere comparable. the committee on the environment has made it quite clear that within the european union six out of fifteen member states have never entered into nuclear energy production, six have decided to withdraw, leaving only three member states. that's something to consider. we have made it quite clear that since the question of the disposal of nuclear waste is an unresolved problem worldwide, it is unresolved! we know where we would like to have deposits, but we will not have them for another 20 years. the construction of new nuclear power stations is simply unacceptable. the commission's proposal is to finance only projects to improve nuclear safety and to dismantle installations, and not, as the commission text provides, to finance installations already in operation. this is unacceptable! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the introduction of uniform, binding safety standards throughout the eu is very much welcome, thank you, commissioner! this standard is intended to be state-of-the-art. ladies and gentlemen, i think we're acting a little bit like the middle ages. back then, you'd spill your feces on the street and wonder why you got sick. we are still in the middle ages, we have no final stock, but we are happy to continue production. i believe in human intelligence, we should research, find solutions, and only when we have them should we produce.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on regional policy, transport and tourism. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to say, in contrast to mr langen, that the committee on transport and the regions has drawn a somewhat more nuanced picture than is unfortunately now reflected in this report by the contributions of the committee on industry and the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i should like to take this opportunity to thank mr herzog very much, but unfortunately the present draft does not contain enough of his good ideas. maybe there's some things you can fix. the committee on regional policy and transport, with the support of the ppe, has very well spoken in favour of a european framework law, because we in this committee believe that services of public interest are something special. they are a characteristic, a feature of the european social model, and we wanted to emphasize that. consider, for example, the postal service. we are not against liberalization, on the contrary, and this committee has also prepared various sectoral liberalization measures. but we know how important it is for many people in europe to have a post office in their area - office is perhaps a bad word - a post office. this is also an element of the satisfaction of the european citizen, particularly as regards public services. or let's think about public transport. the majority of this house has rejected the commission's rigid - let me say - proposals for liberalization, and it is extremely difficult for the commission to make new proposals here because we have felt that public transport for passengers is not simply seen as transeuropean freight transport or as air transport, and that there are special interests, including regional interests. the committee on transport and the regions therefore also believes that local and regional authorities in particular must have a greater degree of freedom, a greater degree of freedom of design. this is also a matter of democratic policy, because citizens can react accordingly if they are dissatisfied with the services. they can vote out certain city governments, they can vote other parties into government. the democratic element should not be overlooked, particularly in the provision of public services, and i hope that more will be done to strengthen social cohesion in europe with this report by mr herzog. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. firstly, we must remember that this is a legislative procedure, and that we are discussing our position on the commission's green paper. we had asked for something else, but the commission has presented this green paper in response to the langen report. secondly, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for coming from different directions in the course of the debate in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy and for having prepared a very good resolution, which is now before the plenary for a vote, and which has been adopted by a majority. thirdly, what is provision? we understand welfare as services of general interest to our citizens. they are intended to provide services which the market cannot provide in a comprehensive, low-cost and, in many cases, free way. the social security system ensures security of supply. suppliers may compete with each other, but they do not have to. the support of the public is necessary. it is not who provides the services that is decisive, but that they are provided. social services are an expression of the european social model and the eco-social market economy. i think that the principle of subsidiarity was crucial. i can agree with amendment no 18 by the social democrats. i welcome the wording that the professions are taking over the provision of services in the general interest and i welcome the fact that we have ensured that the definition and responsibility for the provision of services is in the hands of the member states and not at european level.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. as they fall within the competence of the european institutions, we voted in favour of them, even though we do not agree with everything they say.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. international trade plays a major role in safeguarding and, above all, creating new jobs in europe. we have now completed a development cycle with the core task of developing imports into europe in the right direction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. on the other hand, we must not forget that this means that our small and mediumsized enterprises must also be encouraged to export. given the parity between the dollar and the euro and the fact that china currently has a growth potential of plus 8% per annum, we must consider how we want to balance our trade balance in the future. this, of course, requires global competitiveness. i believe that it is good for europe and important for the future that we take a certain leadership here, that we make a clear statement on these issues through regular conferences within europe and present strategies and objectives with a concrete timetable as soon as possible. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. we are not interested in a complex international structure which can only be handled by large companies and their lawyers. we need clear and simple structures in the developing countries too, so that in the future they too will be able to offer their services in a way that will lead to prosperity and ultimately to peace. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the opening up of our markets also poses problems, because we must remain internationally competitive in the future. the european parliament should therefore not only deal with the subject in general, but this parliamentary assembly should in future focus on europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in iran and has expressed its solidarity with the iranian people. a terrible calamity has not only destroyed a region and a city but also a whole country and its people. i am very pleased - and i would like to make this very clear to commissioner nielson - that the commission, but also europe as a whole, has reacted so quickly and so forcefully as a sign of this solidarity. but i also believe that it is important for iran, especially in the face of this terrible disaster, to show that the country is united in its work for the future. my group and i are very concerned that a pre-selection has already taken place before the elections, which prevents the voters from deciding for themselves. because the point of democracy - and iran is very proud of its democracy - is that voters themselves decide who should represent them in parliament. i sincerely hope that there are still opportunities in iran to correct this bias and to present to the people who is running and to let the people decide. i do not want to go into the forces for or against reform, but i would like to make it clear on behalf of my group that the people must decide. i don't think anyone in iran needs to be afraid of the people's decision. this one is awake and smart enough to make a decision on her own. secondly, i would like to say very positively that iran has signed the additional protocol to the international atomic energy convention, not least because of the initiative of some european foreign ministers. i also understand some of the fear in iran and some of the desire to have the latest nuclear technology, because the fact is that there are some states around iran that have nuclear weapons and are doing research in the field of nuclear technology. i am thinking of india, pakistan and israel. but the region will not be safer if more countries have nuclear weapons. we are in favour of disarmament in all these countries in general, and i believe that iran is doing well not to pursue nuclear weapons here, but to develop a different, more reasonable and - if you will - european security concept. in this sense we shall certainly be happy to support iran. i know that iran is making positive, constructive contributions to regional development, i know that about lebanon. it seems to be the same in iraq. i would naturally also like to see this for israel and palestine. as someone who has been a constant critic of the israeli government, i nevertheless believe that all countries in the region and beyond should contribute to the middle east peace process. in conclusion, i would like to express once again the solidarity of my group with the iranian people, but i also ask the council to do more in the interests of iran itself to ensure that democracy and human rights are fully developed.
the commission has already done so. thank you for your answer. you are right, of course, that the member states are primarily responsible here. as a member of the executive board of the european union of older people, i have been working very intensively on these issues recently, and it has become apparent - our organisation now has members in 20 european countries - that the situation in the homes is being discussed more and more in all european countries. our question is: is it not possible to give some kind of recommendation on how to conclude contracts for housing? we know of homes where people are often treated very disrespectfully, even locked in beds with bars, even though they don't want to be locked in beds, that they are prevented from going out, that they get their dinner so early that they are hungry very soon, but after 8 or 9 p.m. they have no chance to get anything to eat, that when they have done their emergency without a diaper, or even with a diaper, they are often left lying for hours, that they are treated unkindly by the nursing staff, that they are shouted at, that even violence is used. i think that there should be guidelines for home contracts.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. defining cultural diversity is as complex and interconnected as culture itself. cultures are in a state of constant change, and this dynamic process is the impetus for human progress. but we need to find a formal definition of cultural policy, cultural goods and services and cultural diversity in the context of agreements of international organisations such as the wto or the creation of an international instrument on cultural diversity. the fact that citizens in a eurobarometer survey on enlargement in april 2003 identified the cultural sector as one of the major beneficiaries of enlargement, alongside the environment and trade, speaks to the commitment of international organisations to safeguarding and promoting cultural diversity. the identity of the european union is characterised by its diversity, which will include other cultures once the new countries join. the external borders are shifting to a fault line of completely different cultural spaces. from 2004, the european union will be in direct proximity to russia, belarus, ukraine and moldova. the parallels and similarities are apparent despite the differences that can be explained by migration and the dialogue of cultures. the aim is to bring together both minority and marginal cultures and stronger cultures, especially in the context of enlargement, so that there is no clash of cultures but cultural dialogue promotes mutual understanding in the interests of peace. the protection of cultural diversity does not mean confining and preserving it, but opening it up, offering individual development and market opportunities without being subject to the existing market mechanisms. it is a pillar of identity and an economic factor at the same time. this fact requires that we not only commit ourselves to the protection but also to the promotion of cultural diversity, placing it in an international context so that exchange, development and dialogue can take place. for example, the music and film industries appear to be very lucrative sectors in the context of international trade, especially if we look at the market share of films in the european union in 2000: american films 73%, national films in one's own country 15%, national films outside the country's borders 8%. it is only through the stopp gats actions that many people have been made aware of the commission's negotiations in the wto. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. this lack of transparency has also led to doubts and fears about too much liberalisation and to a growing feeling among cultural actors that the objective of international competitiveness takes precedence over the defence of cultural diversity. the cultural exemption still applies. but it's not guaranteed in the long run. public education systems are also currently excluded from the scope of gats. this must remain so in order to ensure free access, equal opportunities and quality. private-funded education markets are largely open. we are asking that there be no further forced liberalization in this area. we must prevent the pursuit of international competitiveness from having a negative impact on cultural diversity. in other words, the protection of the instruments of promotion and thus of cultural diversity should not be achieved in the context of the wto and gats, but by negotiating a convention on the protection of cultural diversity in the framework of unesco. it is gratifying that unesco has agreed by a large majority to draw up a convention, and i hope that it will be done very quickly, because we need a very quick decision here. not only protection, but also promotion is necessary - as i have already said - to maintain diversity. european cultural policy must be accompanied by a national, active, autonomous cultural policy and, in some areas, even by a greater degree of decentralisation at regional and local level. the different levels must not replace each other but complement each other. the internal market and thus the free movement of services cannot be subordinated to national support mechanisms. the specific character of cultures worldwide is to be safeguarded and promoted through increased cooperation between international organisations. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. but i think you have something else to do. you have a lot of decisions to make as president of the council and you have to reorient the council's work. i hope that the christmas period, the change of council presidency and the new year have been used to reflect and to show that you are ready to turn from the blocking intergovernmental core europe to the strengthening of the community europe, from the ignoring of community law keyword: stability and growth pact to the active implementation of community rules and decisions we welcome the commission's complaint from the nationalisation of european politics to the europeanisation of internal policy, from the shifting of blame to the eu to the shifting of responsibility, from the expiry of the moratorium on embryonic research to the unification of the councils, from the pressure of the constitution and the durkheim declaration to the alignment of the guidelines on growth to the guidelines on the community's own resources, from the ignoring of community law keyword: stability and growth pact to the active implementation of community rules and decisions we welcome the commission's complaint from the nationalisation of european politics to the europeanisation of internal policy, from the shifting of blame to the eu to the shared responsibility, from the expiry of the moratorium on embryonic research to the unification of the councils, from the pressing of the constitution and the durkheim declaration to the guidelines on growth to the guidelines on subsidiarity of the union, from the ignorance of community law keyword: stability and growth pact we welcome the commission's decision, from the commission's decision, the national policy, the national competitiveness, the european parliament's, the european parliament's, the european parliament's, the european and the european parliament's, the european parliament's, the public opinion, the public opinion, the public i ask you to make this reversal and, with it, this reorientation of priorities.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. let me say a few words about lisbon before i turn to foreign policy. i agree with you and wish you the best of luck in revitalising the lisbon process. but i think we also have to be clear that this is not just about economic reform. it is also about putting more into the training and further education of people. if we are to demand greater mobility from workers on this continent, we must at the same time give them a certain degree of stability and social security. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to make a few comments on foreign policy. my colleague mr van den berg has already mentioned the critical situation in ethiopia and eritrea. you could call it cashmere. the european union is also called upon to support what is proving to be a slight rapprochement between india and pakistan. i would like to speak in particular about the middle east. i believe that your presidency, mr taoiseach, must work to do more to give this europe a face in the middle east. unfortunately, much has been neglected in this area in the last six months. and in this context i urge you to do everything possible to ensure that the agreement with syria, which is almost ready for signature, is finally concluded. i hear that the commission has done a very good job here, but that there have been protests, vetoes, from the council or from some of its members. whatever the particular reasons, i think we need to have an agreement with syria so that we can put pressure on syria to negotiate with israel and to come to a peace process. i think it is very important that these slight signs of improvement in relations between israel and syria are actually taken advantage of. but it is also about the european union not simply ignoring this hotbed of conflict, but doing more on both sides to advance this peace process. the geneva agreement was signed recently, and it has also created a certain positive feeling in israel, because those who are in favour of peace now have a starting point. and finally, i should like to mention that the former israeli ambassador to germany, ari primor, in a very big and very inflammatory article in die zeit, called on the european union to do more to achieve peace in palestine and israel, and i would also ask you, mr taoiseach, to do more to get the european union involved in this important peace process! (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the council president, bertie ahern, said today that the aim of the irish presidency was to increase security and prosperity for all citizens in the european union. i would like to stress this very strongly and i would also like to suggest that in the interests of security the package of measures which the european parliament expects to be implemented during the irish presidency and also during the subsequent dutch presidency. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i was asked to draw up an own-initiative report for parliament and was pleased to note that the negotiations were excellent, with good results, and that we were able to reach a broad consensus in the committee, with the support of the council and the commission. i thank all those who have contributed to this report. what are the main points of this report? i have found that parliament is in a position to support fully the priorities set out in thessaloniki. but we do want to give special attention to a few key areas, and i would like to suggest six of them. priority 1 is the securing of the external borders. what we need in the future, particularly at the new external borders, is the same high security standards everywhere. the consequence is that we have to train border guards according to a common training plan and that we should set up a european college to train senior officials quickly and promptly. another point related to the external border is the establishment of a border guard corps; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's border security is not compromised by the fact that the member states are not able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the border is secured. this is the so-called border guard corps, which we can imagine being realized. we want the schengen standards to be achieved as quickly as possible at all new external borders, that is to say, we want the new countries to implement all measures as efficiently and quickly as possible with the support of the european union. the second point concerns standardized data sets. if we want to have an intensive and correct exchange of information between the member states, between the member states and the commission and with third countries, then we need standardised data sets, and appropriate measures should be taken here so that we will then have a standardised data system at our disposal. what we urgently need is the exchange of this information with the countries of origin and transit. the third point concerns the implementation of a common asylum policy, measures on a common immigration policy and a return policy. we expect the treaty to be respected, that the irish presidency will be able to adopt the necessary measures in the field of asylum legislation by may 2004, so that we live up to the treaty and take the necessary political steps towards a common asylum law, that is to say, that we take rapid decisions to help refugees and then take action. that is the second point for controlled and legal immigration. the next priority should be the introduction of anti-counterfeiting documents. i welcome the fact that visas and residence permits already require biometric data. we should also strive to ensure that passports are secure and that the visa information system quickly receives the necessary legal framework, the technical equipment we need. the fifth point - and i will conclude here - is information in the countries of origin, so that appropriate instruments can be used against traffickers. the last point is the financial aspects; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. all these measures are demanding, but we hope that they will be implemented during this presidency so that we can guarantee a safe europe for the citizens.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the lisbon objective of becoming the most competitive, dynamic and knowledge-based society by 2010 is not only an economic and industrial policy issue, but also and above all a training and education issue. another area is the functioning of the labour market and its necessary changes. at the interface between the two areas, efforts to promote high-quality education and training and to protect the mutual recognition of professional qualifications across borders are being made. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal. i would like to focus my remarks today on one aspect, namely the same level and conditions of professional qualifications between service providers and the freedom of establishment. the requirements for the activity are the same whether it is a service or an establishment. the activities are not different. it is therefore incomprehensible to me that the establishment is subject to the recognition of professional qualifications, but that the provision of services is not subject to the recognition of professional qualifications. i do not think that distinction is correct. the present system may even be contrary to article 50 tec. this allows the provision of services in an eu member state under the conditions that that state imposes on its own nationals. the conditions include the equivalence of the qualification certificate, provided that such is provided for in the host member state. in order to eliminate this problem, i would like to ask for approval of amendment no 213 to article 5 by mr zappalà and myself.
the rapporteur's deputy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. you see, i'm not piia-noora kauppi, but she's the reporter, i'm not the reporter. she asked me to give her a brief report today because she became a mother a week ago. i would like to congratulate her on behalf of this house and personally. she is the mother of a strong boy, both of whom are healthy, and she wants to reconcile work and family as soon as possible and resume her work in the european parliament. congratulations, pia, and good luck to you. i can say that the report on the commission's proposal is not a criticism of the commission, nor does it give cause for concern about the commission's approach, but rather about the council's approach. the commission proposal essentially aims to achieve in direct taxation what has already been proposed elsewhere for indirect taxation. the main innovations are the introduction of the possibility for two or more member states to carry out joint checks when a taxpayer is active in more than one member state, i.e. it is a matter of common sense and the orderly organisation of the internal market. the second point is to simplify the procedure and the third is to remove ambiguities in the current text, which we are told is already 25 years old and everyone who keeps his eyes and ears open knows that a great deal has been done and changed in that time. the main problem is the procedure. in accordance with the usual practice, the commission has based its proposal on article 95 of the treaty, which means that the co-decision procedure applies to this proposal. the choice of this legal basis has always been supported by parliament for understandable reasons, and i would like to explain why, namely because we believe that administrative cooperation does not affect the substantive tax law, but rather is intended to ensure that the internal market functions. we therefore welcome the commission's legal position. we also point out that the council has already unilaterally decided on several occasions, without any convincing reasons, to change the legal basis in either article 93 or article 94 of the treaty, thus eliminating the european parliament's right to take part in the decision-making process and understating its importance for the internal market. the most recent case concerns two commission proposals on administrative cooperation in the field of vat and an amendment to directive 77/799/eec, on which the council recently re-consulted parliament on the amendment of the legal basis. parliament rejected this request on 2 september 2003. as we expect the council to change the legal basis again with this proposal, the rapporteur sees no reason to change and revise the position at this stage and we therefore propose that the commission's draft be approved in full as proposed on the basis of article 95. we are also demonstrating by a large majority that we are ready, willing and determined to take part in this decision because we are concerned with the internal market.
i have to say, madam president, we must of course work towards a common european approach to tax fraud. but the eu is still being tricked by professional tax cheats because our systems are far too complex. we are opening the door to these fraudsters and indirectly encouraging tax evasion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its future work. we urgently need, for example, a reform of our vat system. the dual and highly complex vat system, which treats national sales differently from eu sales, is a major contributor to the relatively easy misappropriation of billions of euros in europe each year. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud in the european union, including the introduction of a system of vat that is simpler and more understandable, whereby all transactions in europe are treated equally and not unequally, so that tax fraud can be effectively combated. we already know the proposals in this area, we just have to put them into practice. i therefore propose that we finally introduce the tax card in the vat system and treat turnover not unequally but equally in order to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves by actually reducing tax evasion.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european union has already adopted a number of directives in the field of copyright. it was good, it was right, it was important. in my opinion, the harmonization process has failed to push ahead with the necessary reforms, because not only enlargement but also digitisation are the challenges that policy must face. so far, so good. i'm going to go. copyright is based on at least three pillars, but also on enforcement and perception of rights. these two areas are intended to accompany copyright. they cannot make up for what is lost or correct mistakes. we have to wait for the enforcement-- directive. it is currently being discussed very actively in parliament, and now also in a trilogue. the commission has not so far shown any clear intention to undertake such activities in the area of rights. we got a promise almost two years ago. this is the promise we've been waiting for. the european parliament has therefore decided to take action, not to wait for this promise to be fulfilled. the commission has already submitted a communication which will reportedly be sent to parliament in the coming weeks. i'm grateful for that now. i was able to read in the german press during the christmas holidays that the commission is even planning a directive in this area. well, it's a long time, but maybe this will become a good policy. i would like to thank my colleagues in the committee on legal affairs and internal market, who have supported my initiative from the beginning, and we have debated it at length, and i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and the authors of the two opinions. not only have they been helpful, but they have enriched the whole project many times over. it was, like i said, a long process. we've been talking to all the networks. we have been open to the needs, problems, questions and suggestions of all those involved, and we have discussed them in depth. all those involved include the internal market, competition and information society sectors, because the fact that copyright is an indispensable tool for creators and rights holders was clear from the outset. i should like to summarize very briefly the main points of this report. we in the legal affairs committee felt that appropriate measures were needed, as i said at the beginning, not only because of enlargement but also to create a genuine european single market for copyrighted and performing arts productions. we also agreed that we must remain faithful to the principles of copyright. i would like to highlight only three essential factors: fair and equitable participation in the value chain, that any use should be properly remunerated in accordance with the legal requirements and last but not least, the principle of territoriality of copyright. we ask the directorate-general for competition to continue to deal with the vertical concentration of the media and production within the media, and to do so with greater vigour, as it did at the beginning of this parliamentary term. we also ask the commission's directorate-general for competition to look at the distribution channels, particularly in the media, and the dominance of certain industries in this sector, and to investigate the cases of abuse, but not to throw the baby out with the bath. and also, digital rights management -- the acronym drm is a term we're all familiar with -- is a very important and good step in the right direction. we will all need this drm more and more, but without interoperability it will not be able to achieve the desired success. but drm is not going to solve all the problems, and we have to be aware of that. as far as the collecting societies themselves are concerned, we want comparable and compatible statutes and practices. we ask them to record their activities as fiduciary activities, if they have not already done so. we also propose that their activities be legitimized by democratic structures and, above all, by an equal and balanced relationship between the groups of rightholders involved within a collecting society. we also find that the control mechanisms, if they exist in collecting societies, are not always compatible across borders and sometimes not very efficient. there are examples of both extremes, both positive and negative. we therefore call for independent, efficient, transparent and well-informed control mechanisms, and thus for the inclusion of all aspects - legal, social, cultural and economic - not only in the interests of competition, of course, but also in the interests of all rights holders and all user groups and all consumers, for greater transparency and an obligation to provide information, not only on the part of collecting societies but also on the part of users. we are calling for uniform coding standards to allow better control of the circulation of works, and here too interoperability must be ensured. the collecting societies themselves have made many proposals for reform. some of them are really excellent. i will ask the commission to incorporate these advice, these reform proposals into its discussion process now that it is preparing a directive, always respecting the principle of copyright or the principles of copyright. last but not least, let me say that it is important for all of us to make it easier for users - business users and consumers alike - to access the information, but always in accordance with the copyright principle. it is a fact-finding paper of the european parliament, and i think that if it is adopted today at the vote with the same passion and approval as was the case in the committee, then this parliament has a basic document on which it can build and on which the next parliament will also be able to build. once again, i would like to thank all those who have worked with us. i can only tell you that i myself will be putting to the vote an oral amendment which relates only to the language versions. i am not going to go into the details of the amendments, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of putting forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. (applause from the centre)
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking you very warmly for the good cooperation and the expertise that characterizes this cooperation. this report is further proof that i will not be the only one who will be sorry if you do not run for this parliament. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has unanimously adopted my opinion and, because of the good cooperation, it can also give its approval to the echerer report. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. first, it should be noted that monopolies may only constitute justified exceptions to competition law. we know that collecting societies are organised differently in the various member states and in many of them they have a monopoly on certain categories of works. it is therefore certainly appropriate to examine in more detail - rather than rejecting in general terms - the territorial monopoly structures. secondly, we believe that transparency by collecting societies, such as the separate disclosure of administrative and licence costs, would be important. there's a lot to do here. thirdly, and this is linked to the second point, in many countries there is no supervision of collecting societies. i therefore expressly welcome paragraph 49 of the echerer report, which calls for efficient, independent control mechanisms in all member states. fourthly, my proposal for a public register, accessible electronically, listing all the rightholders represented by collecting societies would contribute to greater clarity and transparency and would certainly also facilitate crossborder activity and strengthen competition. fifth and finally, where fragmentation of rights results in high transaction costs, the introduction of a one-stop-shop system for legitimate users and processors could be a more efficient, cost-saving way forward. i would ask the commission to take account of the content of the echerer report in its deliberations. i would like to congratulate you once again and ask you to approve this report.
the rapporteur. the commission is not i would like to make one more oral amendment. don't worry, he's not going to take up a new subject. i have noticed that one of the amendments has not been translated correctly and does not, in my view, reflect the committee's opinion correctly. the correct wording for paragraph 8 - which has also been sent to you - would be: 'notes that there is a need for appropriate measures and that there may be a need for action in the area of the collective enjoyment of rights, also due to the enlargement of the eu'. i think the colleagues can safely agree with me here.
mr president, i am involved in this matter and therefore i did not take part in the debate and i will not take part in the vote.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank you, commissioner, for this report, which is a consequence of the work of the economic and monetary committee, as you have stressed. in your speech you referred mainly to the technical work of the competitiveness review and to improvements. but i think we need to do more to make europe more competitive. if i read the commission's 2003 competitiveness report, it is clear that high productivity gains are achieved in companies where organisational improvements go hand in hand with investment in new technologies, and in particular in information and communication technology. we must therefore be faster, more flexible, more mobile, more industrious, more reform-minded, more european in our thinking and in our actions in the first step and more open to the world in the second. that means that we must create a level playing field for all market players in the internal market, remove the barriers to the internal market and to the competitiveness of the internal market. we must make the single market the single market. the single market is not a single market because we also have competency problems. and we have competency problems in tax policy, labour law and working time. social systems are a matter for the member states alone and the eu can only beg and plead in all these policy areas for the necessary homework to be done. mr president, it is therefore important that we now recognise that there is a link between the quality of the internal market, the competitiveness of the union, the achievement of the lisbon objectives and growth and employment. the basis for this is our social market economy and stability. i would ask you to submit your list of demands to the member states without delay, with clear figures and timetables on how we can increase europe's competitiveness and what homework the member states should do.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too would like to conclude our work by saying that we have worked on this together for four years. i have had one of the best personal experiences here in the european parliament, dealing with a very complex, very wide-ranging subject. i thank the commission and the commissioner for reminding us again today of the great economic importance of this legislative project. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr zappalá, who has shown great patience with my requests. i think that there can be different opinions on the balance sheet of the italian presidency, and it is also assessed differently in this house, but it can certainly benefit from the positive conclusion of this conciliation procedure as a plus point. i shall of course recommend to my group tomorrow that we accept this result of the conciliation. i do this not only halfheartedly because it is a compromise, but because i am convinced that 90 per cent of our result is a very good result. i would like to highlight a few points which have been of particular concern to us in the european parliament and which are now, so to speak, anchored in the result. we share the commission's objective of simplification and modernisation. i think that's pretty much worked. the facilitation of electronic procedures and the introduction of electronic auctions were important to us. we had a difference of opinion on the thresholds. i believe that the thresholds now found, which are slightly higher than they have been so far, are a good solution because they allow smaller contracting authorities, such as municipalities, in particular, not to have to tender for projects in their field throughout europe, but still to maintain the single market for larger projects. i also think it is important that the sectoral directive has been redesigned, that in particular the postal services have been moved from the traditional directive to the sectoral directive - this was also a concern of this house - and that for many sectors individual provisions have now been somewhat simplified. the protection of workshops - which i believe are now well protected - is also an important area, as are the common purchasing bodies, which have been set up by an increasing number of member states, and, of course, very important, all those provisions - especially in view of the enlargement mentioned by the rapporteur - which clarify, so to speak, the applicability of the labour, social, tax and environmental provisions in force in each country. one factor that also played a role in the conciliation procedure, but which was quickly resolved, is that in future all relevant national rules on public procurement law will have to be available on a website. this is an important source of information, especially for smes, and should also help to increase the number of cross-border transactions. as for the award criteria, which have already been mentioned and which were certainly the key point of the negotiations until the end, i can live with the result quite well. we have now secured the jurisdiction of the european court of justice, which has developed over a long period of time. the helsinki findings, and thank god the later findings, have now been incorporated into legislation. i think that is very important, especially in terms of legal certainty, and perhaps this new legislative package also expresses a little of our appreciation for the case law of the european court of justice in this area. in conclusion, i can only appeal to the member states to implement this directive quickly, to implement it in the spirit of the new approach and to create a genuine internal market for public procurement, for more competition, for more transparency, but also for progress in the field of environmental and social policy. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the report by mrs avilés perea is also worthy of praise from the committee on its own. i think we reacted overnight when legitimate doubts - which the previous speakers have already addressed - arose about the way in which public money is being handled in the committee of the regions. i think that we should also take note of this in this house. we have a committee on budgetary control which is sensitive and flexible enough to take up its responsibilities within hours. i think that there was no problem in our having turned these concerns that were put to us into a shift in the discharge of the committee of the regions, and i also think that it has shown us that occasionally there are small bodies in the european union, so-called small bodies - our taxpayers will see this a little differently - which may have a budget of 30 million euros, where the members come here every few months and perhaps give an important speech before a plenary and where, by the way, the temptation is very great that small kingdoms develop in this european community. i am very grateful to the president and his staff in the committee of the regions for drawing the right conclusions from our remarks, but i believe that it will also be a lesson for us in other cases. i join the speakers who have gone before me. i shall be happy to give my approval to the report by mrs avilés perea.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the commission's proposals on the consequences of the eurostat affair can only be commented on with cynicism. commissioner, you are disobeying your own president on this issue. president prodi already announced to this house at the end of september last year and again on 18 november that he would present an action plan before the end of the year. in december we were reassured that it would be january, and now at the end of january we are still waiting for the proposals announced, which are intended above all to allow a rapid improvement of the olaf regulation. the commission is well aware that this is a race against time and, commissioner, we do not have much time. on 10 february, two readings will no longer be possible. how do you think that's gonna go? you have to act. parliament has put the appropriate proposals to you. i feel that it is the old question within the commission: who is a commissioner under which director-general? i'm saying this with all this clarity. the differences of opinion could be settled relatively quickly. we need clear priorities at olaf. it was your institution that said that olaf had failed on the question of eurostat. i say this with such clarity. we need to prioritize. we need to give priority to the protection of the persons under investigation and i also believe that we need to make certain changes in the budgetary regulation. the responsibility of the directors-general in their capacity as authorising officers is one example. it is true that directors-general bear full responsibility for what happens in their directorates-general, but even there - and this is particularly true in the experience of eurostat - control is better than trust. the commission has not yet adopted this principle, and i think it is high time. i would remind you of that, commissioner. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. with the honour to kofi annan and today's report on the european union's cooperation with the united nations, the european parliament is clearly committed to multilateralism in international relations and is signalling that we see cooperation between the european union and the united nations as an essential instrument for conflict management. we want to strengthen both the european union and the un, both of which have been weakened by the conflict over whether and how to act in iraq. if the european union is going to create its own foreign minister, it should fill this function with substance. the road to a common foreign and security policy will therefore certainly also lead to closer eu cooperation with the un. we should go from being a global player, which accounts for more than half of the un's contributions and provides more than 60% of international development aid, to a global player which can play a key role in shaping the future of the un at this critical stage of the united nations. the eu's enhanced cooperation with the un should and can make a concrete contribution to strengthening multilateralism and cover all areas of activity of both organisations: counter-terrorism, conflict prevention, human rights, crisis management, environmental protection and weapons of mass destruction. this would send a clear signal of substantive cooperation and implement the eu's millennium development goals set in 2000 in a pragmatic way. the strengthening of the eu's voice in the united nations is essential to this. un-specific aspects can be incorporated into the eu at all levels, and the involvement of the european parliament also seems useful in this context. the idea of the eu having a voice in the un security council seems utopian at the moment, and this is why multilateral instruments and commitments should strengthen and make visible the eu's role in the un. in this context, we should think of the presentation of concrete proposals for compliance with the treaty in the field of weapons of mass destruction and the associated role of the un security council.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! it is actually grotesque that the more the world is globalised and there is a global political interconnection as well as a global economic interconnection - we think of the many multinational companies - and unfortunately also criminal organizations are organizing and interconnecting worldwide, that precisely in these times the united nations suffers from a certain weakness or that precisely in such times the united nations is often pushed to the margins, to the side. for me, for my group and i think for the majority in this house - and this is also in line with the content and spirit of the laschet report - the united nations is the global political institution which must be strengthened, the united nations represents the global legal order which must be strengthened and not, as in the case of the iraq war, pushed aside and pushed aside. but if you look at things honestly and objectively, you have to recognize that the united nations has a number of weaknesses, that there have been a number of abuses, genocides and crimes against humanity where the united nations has been ineffective. this is the excuse for some people to push the united nations aside - unfortunately often for those who, by their own veto, have made the united nations incapable of reacting quickly, if i think, for example, of the situation in the middle east. but i think the united nations must be strengthened, it must be made more efficient, it must be able to intervene in a timely manner - and i say this clearly - and, where necessary, to intervene preventively, because if anyone could and should play the role of world policeman, it is certainly the united nations. i am very glad that mr laschet has taken up an idea of mine which i have worked out with my group, namely that we must create a regulatory mechanism so that the united nations can intervene in time when there are cases of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity, and so that it is not up to individual countries and states and governments to identify and then act, but that it is international legal institutions that determine that danger is delayed. the united nations should then be able to intervene in time, and where necessary, to intervene preventively. the united nations would not need its own army to do this. nato has been mentioned - i don't want to overestimate it - but nato could then, when it comes to the un sending a clear signal, also become active in ensuring law and order and trying to prevent crimes against humanity. in this sense, it is certainly important to reform the security council. this includes a seat for the european union, but at the same time we must ensure that there are no more vetoes, no more blockades. to say it again: we are actually fed up with a world where individuals and individual governments and states think they can play world policeman. if the united nations has a role to play, it is to play a role in maintaining law and order throughout the world, and to do so with the strong support of the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report is excellent, and it is even more pleasing for us to be able to welcome in a few minutes the acting secretary-general of the united nations, kofi annan. i would also like to point out at this point that there have already been three european secretaries-general of the united nations: trygve lie, dag hammarskjöld and kurt waldheim, and that we have two permanent un seats in europe: geneva and vienna. we therefore share a great deal of responsibility. we must not only demand from each other, we must act with each other and support each other. the last european un secretary-general, kurt waldheim, wrote in one of his books, "the answer": "i must admit that despite all our efforts and our unquestionable sincerity, the organization has not yet succeeded in breaking through the political habits and attitudes of previous centuries and in coping with the new facts of our existence. their shortcomings limit their ability to act effectively. we are attacked with the accusation that it produces more rhetoric than action, that it is ineffective and often ignored, and that the system of giving each state a voice allows the third world to dominate the decision-making process by separating the weight of the votes from the ability to act. the same could be said of the european union. we both need reform. we have a lot in common. success depends on the political will and determination of the member states. success depends on the acceptance and implementation of community law on the one hand and the united nations charter on the other. success depends on multilateral cooperation, global responsibility and community-based thinking, not nationalism. we can contribute by france and the united kingdom leaving the security council and the eu entering it. we would be reforming the eu, our own common foreign and security policy, and forcing reform of the un security council.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is a contradiction in this part of a resolution on the professions already adopted by this house. i therefore ask that this part be changed as we have already decided. the oral amendment would read: considers that the commission should not only take account of the market situation in applying the provisions of competition law to the liberal professions, but must also bear in mind the social aspects and tasks in the public interest. calls therefore on the commission to allow associations of the liberal professions the discretion to take measures to enable them to perform their functions correctly.
i just wanted to make a quick reference to something. a report by me on industrial associations has been put on this week's agenda without my knowledge and, above all, contrary to the agreements reached with the authorities in this house on the part of parliament. i learned about it from a call from the london times. the question of how this could have happened was answered by the responsible parliamentary body, which said that it had been agreed by the political groups. the commission has already made a number of proposals. that doesn't make this house look good. i am grateful to note that the report will not be tabled until agreement has been reached with the rapporteur, because some groups are aware that important negotiations are still in progress. but in practice, we would have liked it to have been a little more transparent and efficient.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm sorry to bring this up again. i've only heard it in the original language. i would just like to point out once again that there was a clear agreement with the parliament's services not to put this report on the agenda before march or april. then i learned from the london times that he was appointed in february. i said, "please don't do it now". cause and effect should not be confused.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. to mrs villiers: at least we should not say that we do not know what we are asking for or want. unfortunately, little remains of the original draft report by the rapporteur after its examination by the economic and monetary committee. not much, which would require greater transparency and control of the rating agencies. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the financial interests of the european union. it is not a matter of what signal we are giving to the commission at this moment in terms of the recognition of external ratings by basel ii and what the result of that is. the report is a toleration of an almost uncontrollable oligopoly. this is contrary to all other internal market practices. 80 of the 100 largest companies in the european union are controlled by just three agencies. this is why the rating of companies should be better understood by the companies themselves. the information that leads to the evaluation is also important for the investment decision. we cannot lag behind the united states in this respect. the commission has recently substantially strengthened the existing oversight of credit rating agencies by the securities and exchange commission in response to recent developments. i am sorry, mr katiforis, but the message from this own-initiative report to the commission is too moderate, it gives little hope for an instrument we should trust. but i would like to conclude with the rapporteur's appeal that, in view of the many uncertainties that exist, we should do everything possible to have a european registration authority decide.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the report is of particular importance because it raises so many questions. the credit rating agencies, as my previous speakers have shown you, are gaining in importance in two ways. on the one hand, by the well-known scandals, on the other hand, by the consumer credit directive or the development of basel ii. every bank customer, and especially every borrower, is - and we have to be honest - rated in some way. rating agencies primarily rate companies and countries. these valuations lead to a debate on the level of interest rates, the level of equity capital, the stock market prices, and they influence the confidence of customers in the company and in the country. we must therefore also take into account that the philosophy of the rating agencies comes primarily from the anglo-saxon area and that we have three large companies from this area that also carry out ratings in a large and significant form in europe. and since that is so, we also have to consider that all of these rating agencies have a quality stamp, namely the quality stamp of the securities and exchange commission, an american quality stamp. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we therefore advocate that credit rating agencies in europe be promoted and that european credit rating agencies specifically address the specificities and needs of smes. we are in favour of a european quality label, preferably a global quality label, in conjunction with basel ii and the debate on internal and external ratings. we are for freedom of expression and agency independence, and we are for more transparency. so i think it's not right that credit rating agencies don't have an approval process at all. perhaps the approach of starting with the financial market supervisors, treating internal and external ratings equally and thus also registering or approving the agencies, is a good approach that we should pursue instead of creating a new authority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i too would like to begin by thanking mr garot for his own-initiative report. the income policy in agriculture has a direct impact on the attractiveness of the agricultural profession and thus on the survival of agricultural production and, consequently, on rural development. the income of european farmers varies widely. agriculture has undergone a profound structural change in recent years, which is still ongoing. between 1995 and 2002 alone, the number of farms in the eu decreased by an average of 15.7%. the income of european farmers is partly derived from direct payments and not just from the proceeds of production. moreover, the fall in prices of basic agricultural products is not linked to the development of consumer food prices. in addition, production costs will continue to rise as a result of increased agricultural levies, while compensation payments to farmers will not increase to the same extent. the compensation must guarantee that the concerns of society are met, namely the desire for healthy and safe food and a livable environment. compensation for agriculture is justified in that it is intended to compensate for the multifunctional benefits of agriculture to society, especially, as mr santini has said, in the mountainous regions, the lessfavoured regions and the peripheral regions of the eu. the european union's agriculture will also need a strong entrepreneurial element with a basic production function in the future. the professional self-concept and social position of farmers throughout europe increasingly depends on the extent to which agricultural policy promotes farmer enterprise. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must also not forget that these agricultural policy instruments must be provided over a period of time in order to allow planning and action in a longer-term time frame. the financial perspective is essential to give our farmers the planning certainty that agriculture and the countryside need.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i should like to thank mr graefe zu baringdorf very warmly for this own-initiative report. the commissioner's remarks have already confirmed the importance of this initiative. the sixth framework programme for research currently has a budget of around eur 16 billion, of which no more than 2% can be allocated to agriculture and rural development. the present, very welcome, own-initiative report calls for an increase in the allocation of funds for agricultural research in the eu research budget. we have clearly chosen the european agricultural model and thus the preservation of a multifunctional and sustainable agriculture in all parts of europe. development and research are inseparable. in order to conserve resources and to protect our environment, further research is essential in the fields of organic farming, extensive farming and, above all, non-food production. the development of knowledge about renewable raw materials for energy and material use must be promoted as a survival strategy. the emphasis must be on improving yield security, quality of life and environmental compatibility, as mentioned in the report. on-farm research is an indispensable tool in integrating nature conservation and agriculture in the sustainable management and use of natural biotopes in the agricultural landscape. the report aims to draw attention to the fact that agricultural research is also of great importance to society and needs greater attention. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the vote in committee gave even more weight to biotechnology research than was originally the case in the report, because we thought at the beginning that biotechnology research already had good programmes. a functioning rural area is inextricably linked to a functioning agriculture. as a representative of farmers and the rural community, i can therefore only welcome this report and we really hope that the seventh research framework programme will finally take account of these demands.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned. the debate on the eu budget will be tough. in times when net payers do not have unlimited resources and net recipients want to maintain ownership, a constructive solution becomes difficult. the commission is asking for an increase in own resources to solve the problem. the idea of giving the eu its own tax competence is discussed. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. if savings are made everywhere, then the eu cannot close itself off to this desire to save and reform. anything else would be detrimental to the eu's future and would not be available to the people. in the debate on future finances, there are two options: either to continue wrangling, repeating old sins and wanting to finance everything at once, or the second option to see the future framework for the eu budget as an opportunity. since the decision to add 10 new members to the eu at the latest, it has been clear that reforms are needed. only no one's touched the hot iron yet. is the eu's subsidy policy really for the best? is it understandable that the eu promotes tobacco growing while banning tobacco advertising? is promoting animal transport across europe and beyond really the last resort? these are just two small examples. but one thing is clear: there must be reforms, and this is an opportunity! this requires political courage and probably also a political vision of the future shape of europe, its tasks and its future. the budget is the policy expressed in numbers.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it has become known that railway companies are now competing with the airlines for cheap tickets. what will you do about the state aid that the railways are currently receiving? will there be any limitations on the possibilities here? in austria, for example, 7% of the budget is spent on railways. this is equivalent to about 500 euros per citizen subsidised by rail, and is in direct competition with the low-cost flights offered by private operators. there is unfair competition between the cheap airline tickets and the cheap railway tickets. i would be very happy if you would do the same with the railways.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in recent weeks, slovakia has introduced a 19% income tax and a 19% corporate tax. as a result, many austrian entrepreneurs are currently planning to set up businesses in slovakia and, of course, to employ their employees in slovakia. is there any study by the commission on how many workers from the present european union will move to these attractive tax areas in a kind of relocation? will this be a realistic scenario, or will there even be a significant exodus of workers from the member states in the first two years, because it is only later that the possibility of moving from the new member states to the present eu will be available? thank you, sir.
mr president, mr commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health and safety of workers at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i would like to highlight just a few points which i consider particularly important. firstly, the eurodac system became operational in january last year. this means, quite simply, that it is only now that dublin has become operational that we can determine which country is actually responsible for the asylum process and that we have a tool at our disposal to successfully stop and prevent asylum abuse. we have established partnerships with countries of origin and transit in the interest of preventing illegal migration flows. we have put together a package of measures to combat illegal immigration, including the preparation of a new integrated external border security system with very high standards at all the current and future external borders of the european union. we have also made preparations for joint return operations. i also consider the policy of making biometric data available on visas and residence permits to be particularly successful, because it allows us to ensure that we are giving people who cross borders documents that are counterfeit proof. i also consider the cooperation agreements concluded between the new member states or other countries such as romania or russia and europol to be important in order to combat international crime and, in particular, corruption successfully on the ground. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal drug trafficking, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but let me also make some critical remarks and make some demands. the first thing i want to say is this: i consider it essential that what the current presidency of the council has decided to do, namely to implement the directive on the status and procedures of asylum seekers, in the interests of a common policy on asylum, should be done at the beginning of this year, that is, by april. i fear that if we do not succeed by then, we will have great problems in actually arriving at a common policy on asylum. we wouldn't have a quick aid for refugees. we would then not have the necessary instruments to take the fight against abuse forward. we fully support you as president of the council in these considerations. the second is the fight against corruption. we must strengthen them in the interests of the stability of the new member states and we must help the new member states to establish and achieve schengen standards at the new external borders as quickly as possible in the interests of the new states but also in the interests of the european union as a whole. investments will be necessary. you have our support. a note also on the agencies. i don't want us to go on inventing new ones, but to keep them functional when we already have so many. we cannot possibly consider expanding the management boards to the limitless number of experts from 15 to 25, and if that does not work, we may have to set up an executive board. the second is to consider whether we should not set up a coordination board to keep the other two boards functioning. this can't be the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. otherwise, there is a risk of wasting resources. it should not happen in the future that documents from the commission come to parliament and that new documents, new conventions are developed while parliament is working, but are not communicated to parliament, so that we have to continue working on an old basis and then start again. i ask you to improve this combination in the interest of the efficiency of the whole process. this debate at the end of a successful year, a successful electoral period, should be a critical assessment and should inspire us all to build on the success and continue to work even more successfully in the interests of the security of the citizens of our union. we in the european parliament will give you our full support, be assured, even if it is for the increase in the budget which we will absolutely need to be able to achieve the successes we want in the interests of security. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i have great respect for the president of the council, but he has no choice but to show us today, in a very dramatic way, how incapable the european union is of taking a clear position on one of the most important issues. not even a hoarse voice comes out, but no voice at all. what are we gonna do? we are holding ourselves back on a very important issue, which is precisely the question of legality. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter. you can be for it or against it. but you yourself say, mr president-in-office, and the european union says that it is being built deep into the palestinian territory. it is precisely in the case of such a measure, of such an annexation, where it is also a question of establishing how such a fortification of the border should be assessed legally, that we say: we are sorry, we have no opinion, or rather each individual state should do as it wishes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is the slogan, that is the motto of european foreign and security policy on this issue. i think that's shameful. it is not a question of condemning israel unilaterally. i am in full agreement with mr cohn-bendit: those who condemn and criticise this wall must not only condemn but also try to combat all forms of terrorist activity. but with a position like that, you're not going to get anywhere. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the palestinian people are not left behind. but israel will not involve us more in the peace process. and i find it sad that the european foreign ministers and heads of government do not recognize and do not recognize this. mr roche, you had no choice but to present it to us in this way. i have two questions to put to you, the chairman. the first question concerns sharon's plans to evacuate most - not all - but most of the enclaves, the settlements, in the gaza strip. what does that mean? what does that mean? the room daccord, agreed cheers for sharon. but does this mean that other areas, especially in the west bank and east jerusalem, are now being expanded? my question to you, mr president-in-office of the council, is this: has the european union at least made its position clear? we have to be very careful not to allow the palestinians to be forced to leave their homes. the second question i have for you is: there is now a great deal of talk about a new middle east plan in the broadest sense of the word from the americans. joschka fischer has spoken at the military conference in munich. does the european union know about this plan? does the european union have anything to say about this plan, and does this plan include very concrete steps on the very core issue of israel and palestine? it would be interesting to see what the european union and the council have to say about this.
thank you, mr president. the european parmalat scandal is second only to the biggest us financial scandal to date, worldcom. the fact that the parmalat scandal has also involved an austrian company is of course particularly disturbing to me. but since the big us scandals began about three years ago, we have been discussing european audit mechanisms and financial laws. unfortunately, it's still the case that some people want more control, others less. there is hardly any convergence on this issue, on this point of view, in this, in my opinion, senseless political polarization. we were just yesterday looking at the rating agencies. the conservative side, as is usual in such situations, voted against better, stronger control mechanisms and thus accepted the audit and evaluation oligopoly as it is, without any particular comment. it's a matter of taste, the way you look at it from this side. we shall also have the opportunity shortly to vote on the directive on mergers of companies with capital from different member states. the commission has already indicated that it intends to put this directive ahead of the interests of workers and of better control mechanisms. however, existing eu legislation facilitates fraudulent policies by a number of opaque funding systems. tax havens are still supported, despite years of urging that we regulate them. but it cannot be that our europe, with its mechanisms of regulation and control, is like a swiss cheese with holes in it, and that this opens the door to fraud. if we do not act now, we will not win the confidence of the workers who are losing their jobs, nor the confidence of the investors in the capital market, which is what we want.
we know that business relations can also be a basis for improving political relations, and so my question is this: is it really also planned to improve the framework conditions for business relations between small and mediumsized enterprises or family businesses between europe and south africa, because this could be a basis for creating prosperity in the poorer regions, which is ultimately also the basis for creating peace?
the problem facing young people in particular is unemployment. unemployment creates certain activities which are not desirable. the president of eurocommerce, dr. leitl, has recently called for young people between 15 and 25 years of age to be excluded from unemployment in principle and to be offered the alternative of either working or studying in order to integrate them into society. do you think that the youth programme could also take such initiatives?
i have to say, madam president, the report on afghanistan is welcome as it demonstrates that the country of the hindu kush, which came to the international spotlight after 11 september 2001, will not be forgotten again and that the european union remains committed financially and politically to contribute to stabilisation. the report essentially presents a very pessimistic picture which, in my view, takes too little account of the positive elements. one of these positive elements was undoubtedly the adoption of the constitution by the loya jirga last december. it is a constitution that is primarily intended to strengthen a central government, without which nation building in this country, torn apart by ethnic and decades-long wars and soviet occupation, has little chance of a normal development. the second step that is now needed is democratic elections, admittedly a difficult process in this country. the preparatory work is late, but the elections should still be held as soon as possible, provided they strengthen the stabilisation process. i am aware that the us is pushing for elections in june. but in order to achieve a calming effect, it is not necessary to stick to that date in order to create the conditions for elections with a semi-democratic legitimacy. it would not be unfortunate if they were held a little later, say in august. all other measures to bring peace to the country can be compared to the famous glass of water and the question of whether it is half full or half empty. the security situation is still catastrophic. the taliban militants in the southeast of the country have apparently re-formed, and the americans are not ruling out the possibility of using ground troops in the spring offensive. the expansion of isaf beyond kabul is to be welcomed. however, their mandate is so limited that german troops stationed in kunduz - the safest area by the way - are effectively watching the opium smuggling - one of the main sources of income for the country, which has become the world's largest opium producer - work. the cycle between opium and the maintenance of warlords and their armies is thus still in full swing, and this is one of the main problems.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to say that mr hans-peter martin has informed me that the report on lobbying in the industrial sector has been withdrawn for his own personal interest. the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy did not welcome this. it was done against the will of the committee responsible and against the will of the coordinators. i would simply like to note that this report was withdrawn by him personally, against the wishes of the committee responsible, and against his own wishes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to mention - and i hope that mr rübig will be involved - that this report can be discussed in this house as soon as possible, in this very spirit.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'd like to start with the last one. the european parliament has decided to call for the creation of a legal framework based on the co-decision procedure and respecting the principle of subsidiarity when implementing the internal market and competition rules and when it comes to the compatibility of competition and the internal market with services of general interest. we have asked the commission to present a follow-up document by april at the latest - we are now hearing that it will use up the whole period - to draw the lessons from the green paper consultations and to clearly state its position on a possible legal framework and the way forward. this is our position. and anything which contradicts this question of the codecision procedure, subsidiarity and the adequate consideration of services of general interest cannot be accepted by this house. secondly, we are so strongly in favour of the codecision procedure not only because it increases our influence, but also because the question of services of general interest is a very important question for citizens to put to european politics, and because we want to do everything possible to ensure that liberalisation, competition and the internal market are not misunderstood in the minds of citizens as being in conflict with services of general interest and security of supply, but that we find a cooperation between the two. we say that competition, liberalisation and the internal market do not exclude social cohesion, but are prerequisites and require complementary measures. the use of services of general interest therefore also reflects the citizens' confidence in competition policy, the internal market and european competence. and that is why we, as representatives of the people, as a people's parliament, who are asked every day about this tension, want to be able to take part in the decision-making and to be able to participate in the voting. the next point: it is important that the principle of subsidiarity be maintained because the definition differs in the member states, because the geographical situation differs, because the social, health and demographic problems differ. we are therefore very much in favour of the european constitution, because the draft contains a wording which respects the principle of subsidiarity and which we can support. i would like to make one more point: we are writing into this constitution that the european union has as its objective the social market economy and social cohesion. the management of services of general interest, which is not in conflict with competition and the internal market, is the definition, the implementation of the organizing principle of the social market economy and the creation of social cohesion on the basis of competition and the internal market. i emphasize ownership neutrality and i emphasize security of supply. the security of supply must be guaranteed, including through subsidies. we need services of general interest only where the market is not able to provide them at affordable prices and at a high quality standard. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i admit i prefer to discuss foreign policy with you because it comes from your heart. but you have to take this opportunity. i think what i do not like about this statement you have to make is the failure to recognise that it is a european model of society, which is represented by the majority of this house. it's a narrow majority, but it's a majority. i think it is also the majority of the european population who see services differently from other goods and services that are provided. i believe that in the case of these services of general interest, we must start from the concrete interests of the citizens - and i agree with mr karas on this point. they also have the opportunity, unlike in other areas, especially where such services are offered at regional and local level, to influence the choice of service offered by their choice, which is not the case in many other areas. they want sufficient, high-quality public services at a reasonable price. the market may well be an instrument - i do not exclude that the market is also an instrument for achieving this objective - if the framework directives are correct. the framework directives should be adopted by a legislative act with full co-decision in this parliament. i think that the commission can simply say yes to that. it is still possible to discuss in detail what the legal framework is, but it must be one which takes account of the specific situations and needs of services of general interest. we would have preferred, of course, to have had the framework envisaged by the constitution. we haven't got it yet, but it's got to go that way. too many citizens are experiencing that liberalisation, admittedly often coupled with privatisation, has led to a fragmentation of services - i hear, for example, in manchester there are 28 bus lines in a city after liberalisation - and too often has led to only short-term price reductions, and that often new monopolies - this time private monopolies - have emerged that are no better than public monopolies. on the contrary, they are worse because they cannot be influenced by electoral decisions. i also believe that, in the spirit of the principle of subsidiarity, which is a principle which you welcome very much, the commission should be asked to provide a legal framework for public services, otherwise i would say: 'give freedom of thought! give freedom of design!' give it to those local and regional authorities and bodies which know best how to provide public services in a citizen-centred way. the commission should acknowledge this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to congratulate commissioner monti because i believe that he is concerned about the rights of consumers and citizens in europe, and they have a right to receive services of a decent quality and above all at a decent price. one of the essential features of services of general interest is that they are subject to a transparent public tendering procedure. i think there is always a lot of confusion between liberalization and privatization. i believe that liberalisation is a fair framework for competition. we have seen in sweden, for example, that many towns, often run by the same party, compete with each other and try to offer the best services possible, and that town or city administration then wins the contract for other towns that offer the best services to the citizens and consumers. in public tenders, you can specify exactly what you want. for example, in the railway sector, when you are selling a service, you can say: at 6 o'clock in the morning there are three people, at 10 o'clock there are 12 people, and at midnight there are three people. this allows the service to be procured correctly and efficiently from a to b. i am also in favour of public funding, because we are all in favour of the social component. we want to give citizens who do not have a driving licence, who have financial problems, mobility problems and other problems, the opportunity to participate in services of general interest. but, and i have to say this, liberalization and fair competition are one track, privatization is the other track. i would ask that these two levels not be mixed up, but that the strategy of competition law be followed very consistently. i would like to congratulate commissioner monti on organising this. the fact that the cities and public administrations which provide services of public interest must compete with our small and mediumsized enterprises is a matter of course. that's why we have tenders. we have two thirds of the workforce in small and mediumsized enterprises. there are 18 million businesses here that can apply for public services in the interests of consumers. the small and mediumsized enterprises pay 80% of the taxes, so they also raise the money, in the end, to enable us to provide these social services in the public and general interest. i therefore also believe that the concept of 'common economy' as it was once called is not true, nor is 'welfare' true, but we want the best performance for our citizens. this is only possible in a proper competition.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. when a delegation from our group was recently in iran, we were actually surprised by the level of discussion, also by the willingness to dialogue, by the many young women who make up the majority of students in iran. so the majority of those who go to universities and colleges. it is probably this situation which has prompted the guardian council to slow down and stop this development which could result - a development which we regard as positive. if we are talking about the elections in iran today, then it is right to say that iran should decide for itself. what are we getting involved in this situation? i would say, yes, iran speak, let the people of iran decide for themselves. that's exactly what the guardian council wants to prevent. it's not a question of reformers or non-reformers. we must take this into account when the non-reformers are elected. but from the very beginning, the guardian council selects who can be a candidate, and this selection prevents the iranian people from being able to make their own decisions. the european parliament has been elected by the people of europe, and it is not the people of europe who are elected by the people of europe. the european union has no choice but to press the most important points of change in iran. i'm thinking of the death penalty. the existing moratorium on this particularly cruel form of capital punishment, stoning, must be strictly observed and even converted into a legal regulation. i am thinking of ratifying the additional protocol to the atomic energy agency. the new parliament will probably have to make the additional protocol. we must make it clear that whoever is elected must insist that this be ratified. i am also thinking of the situation in the middle east, where we need iran to help us. there is no lack of criticism, no lack of ruthless criticism of the situation in iran! on the other hand, the commission will certainly have to work to achieve the essential points of iran's good behaviour in this region. but here 's the thing . the way in which the guardian council has acted can only be condemned in the strongest terms.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i too took part in the trip to iran. i am grateful that iran is seeking dialogue and cooperation. he has made an offer to us europeans, an offer from the security council, to set up a joint commission to focus on the fight against drugs in a bilateral dialogue between europe and iran. iran currently has about 2 million drug addicts out of 8 million people who use drugs occasionally. that's a very high percentage of a population of 60 million. the main drug supply is currently heading to america. but we have to expect a massive drug wave towards europe soon. that is why i am particularly grateful that the head of the security council has made an offer here that the european union should work with him and his authority to get these drugs out of afghanistan from the warlords. the second proposal to fight terrorism together - also with a bilateral commission - is, i believe, an offer which we should not reject, just as we should not reject the judicial authorities' proposal to use the strasbourg human rights court to encourage the training of judges in iran and to simply show them the advantages and disadvantages of the various systems. we should focus on that! but the trade and cooperation agreement, the promotion of cooperation between small and mediumsized enterprises between iran and the european union, is also a feature that strengthens democracy. i also believe that economic contacts in this area could be an example of better cooperation in the field of dialogue and democracy. the energy partnership is of course also a point of particular importance for europe. energy security is the issue of the future. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. however, this concerns only recitals d and f. in paragraph d and also in paragraph 7 it should be political figures rather than opposition figures, since three out of five of those killed belonged to a ruling party. then it would have to be 7 january instead of 4 february in recital f. so these are more technical changes than substantive ones.
i am not going to go into the details. i would like to draw your attention and that of this house to what i believe is a very sad situation in our neighbouring country, or future member, slovakia. i'm hearing on tv that the government has apparently cut social benefits for roma, which has caused many women and mothers, and, horrifyingly, their children, to storm grocery stores to get food. i do not want to suggest that violence is in any way justified, even remotely, but the situation of the roma is probably quite dramatic and i would ask you, mr president, to come here and ask for clarification and information. (applause from the centre)
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i can agree with your priorities. but do you not agree, madam vice-president, that there is a headline that can be inserted into the year 2005 in particular, namely 'growth and employment'? and that we are all collectively responsible for the fact that this europe has not had enough growth and not enough employment in recent years, and that this is a very important task for the new commission? if a super-commissioner or a vice-president of the commission has been mentioned in this tripartite summit, and he is supposed to be dealing with economic reforms, do you not agree that if that is to be the case, he should be primarily responsible for growth and employment, because we will have difficulty in carrying forward the european idea if we do not put growth and employment first? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the roma and sinti issue. in the enlarged europe, including bulgaria and romania, we have 8 million roma and sinti who live in a very difficult social situation - more difficult than in many member states. are you prepared to prepare the next budget in such a way that financial support - it is not just financial - can be given to the integration of the roma and sinti in our society? otherwise we will have conflicts which are in direct contradiction to the idea of european unity. (applause from the centre)
i would also like to thank the vice-president of the commission and commissioner schreyer for the very clear and comprehensive presentation of the financial planning for 2005, and especially you, mrs de palacio, for the remark that a commission of 25 members can and will function as well as the present one. i am convinced of this, and i think it is very important that this commission is not only open to 25 members, but also that it is credible and strong and able to enforce its policies. the importance of this is particularly evident in the question of the stability and growth pact. the commission has already passed a test here and will continue to pass a test to ensure that the principles of growth and stability policy are upheld and supported. this is in the interest of all of us, because economy and growth and stability and growth are two sides of the same coin. but what i consider to be a particularly important area, and in the context of which i would like to put a question to you, is the policy of security - judicial cooperation and security and freedom - in an enlarged european union. there are resources here, and this is a very important area. where do you want to put the specific emphasis here? in the politics of border security, in the politics of drug control? the citizens of the european union expect more security, not less security, in an enlarged union. and here we must ensure that the financial means are in place to secure the external borders and to develop the methods to combat international crime and illegal migration effectively.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. looking at the room in this way, i have the feeling that some people, the majority of us, are still not clear that the implementation of the lisbon objectives a policy for growth and employment and thus the spring summit, alongside the constitution, enlargement, the european elections and the appointment of the commission, is the most important policy area and the most important date of this year in the european union. i think we should stop complaining and blaming and instead remember that we have made enough decisions and set enough goals and now we should finally start to stick to the decisions and achieve the goals. it is a paradox that germany, france and the united kingdom are the ones agreeing to install a supercommissioner for economic coordination in brussels - those countries in particular where one is not part of the euro zone and constitutionally stands in the way of europe's strengthening in the world, and the others are violating the stability and growth pact and thus eu law and are forcing the commission to go even to the european court of justice. i believe that a supercommissioner cannot replace the lack of political will in the member states, and that he should not serve as a diversionary manoeuvre, but that we should finally put the decisions we have taken into practice, that is, do the homework in the member states. that is also true - and i must say this to mr della vedova - of the agricultural budget. because it was these heads of state and government who have already decided that the agricultural budget will remain stable at this level in the years 2006-2013 and therefore a change is not possible at all, which i welcome. to constantly question things that are decided rather than implement them is to weaken us all. if some here say - as the left does - that the stability and growth pact is the problem because the member states are not doing their homework, then i must also say that germany and france, as two prominent countries, are endangering the stability and growth pact and are not complying with it. these are the same countries that are also at the forefront of the failure to implement the internal market directives, and these are the same countries that are also at the forefront of the calls for a supercommissioner. we need stability and flexibility as the basis for competitiveness. competitiveness is the basis for growth and employment. and growth and employment are the foundations of social cohesion. let us stop playing the market against the state and instead push forward our model of social market economy, which leads to social cohesion. let us stop playing off investment and debt against each other and instead stick to what we have committed ourselves to. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! a few days ago there was a new eurobarometer survey. particular attention has been paid to the extremely low turnout figures for the european parliament elections in june. in some countries, just over 20%, in almost all countries less than 50% have expressed an interest in these elections. it is not appropriate to be surprised by these figures. the european citizens hear the same song year after year: all the bad comes from brussels and the good comes from home. particularly good at the black peter game that is being played here is the council. it is not mentioned that it is usually a part of brussels and that it is only where it can play santa claus, as it is now with the tens, that the council wants to act as a blessing, as the only one, of course. it is not a matter of the treaty talking about co-determination in this context, that the council and parliament should decide jointly on the transeuropean transport network! when it comes to the distribution of benefits and promises, the high ladies and gentlemen like to be left alone. we must not allow any glory to fall to others, especially not to parliament. we are not prepared to play along with this disinformation game; not in principle, and certainly not before 13 june. we want to emphasize this in the resolution we have tabled. we are asking for a clear message to the european citizens: europe is not the only source of evil, and the european parliament and its members are jointly responsible for many things that are important to the citizens and, in this particular case, i hope, also beneficial.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have great confidence in the council, and in particular in minister roche, and i interpreted his speech more as a statement that he is in favour of the european parliament having full say in all the areas we have discussed here. i'm hearing from my colleagues, they're not so gullible. i would ask the president of the council - point 1 - to say clearly and clearly whether he accepts the full right of veto on all these matters, whether it be the quick start list or other lists. point 2: this parliament - we have already voted on this in committee under the chairmanship of mr costa - is not so irresponsible that everyone is now adding their five or six favourite projects, but in the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism we have added a limited number of projects for a logical reason. to mention only two projects - i think there were about six projects - which are adding to the cohesion and cohesion of europe in the enlargement process, but also in the future enlargement process in the balkans: a line from prague via linz across austria, and another from the north via vienna to graz towards croatia - lines which make perfect sense. i really think that this parliament has shown in the past months that it is responsible, that it does not add one project after another indiscriminately, even in the run-up to an election. but the european parliament's right to speak must be fully guaranteed. it would be good if the president-in-office's ambivalent answer today made it clear that the council fully recognizes the european parliament's right to speak, because this european parliament has a great responsibility and is bringing in some additional ideas for these important investment projects. the council and the presidency of the council should be interested in getting some additional good ideas, and you will get them from the transport committee of this house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. there are many conflicts and crisis centres in the world today. let's appeal to reason, save lives! this is the aim of a traditional and noble initiative, the olympic peace, which is almost 3,000 years old. for more than a decade, the ioc has been trying to revive this tradition of olympic peace. we should, at a time of conflict - iraq, afghanistan, africa, the pacific, neighbouring regions, all affected - send a strong message to promote peace, dialogue and reconciliation during and after the olympic games. in november 2003, the un general assembly unanimously adopted a resolution on creating a peaceful and better world through sport and the olympic ideal. thousands of personalities from all over the world and from all walks of life - politicians, artists and the like - have signed this declaration of olympic peace. in the context of the european year of education through sport, we can and should convey that sport can and should play a key role in this process. we should use the broad publicity that both the olympic games and the european year of education through sport have to convey messages of peace, to discuss conflict resolution and to highlight the social function of sport as an indispensable instrument of aid. we must also ask ourselves why ever more stringent security measures are needed around the olympic games and many other international sporting events. 50,000 personnel will be deployed in athens to ensure the protection of 10,500 athletes from 201 nations, including visitors. the budget for this is 650 million euros. how can we talk about a cultural and peace project that needs to be guarded around the clock? what message are we trying to convey here? i think that is precisely the approach we are taking now, that we are appealing to all the member states of the european union, but also to the international institutions, that we are appealing to reason and understanding. the committee on culture, youth, education, media and sport has therefore decided to put this oral question to the council, so that the eu and its member states can take up this responsibility to make the most of this moment of universal reason during the olympic games and hopefully far beyond. i would like to see a broad debate as a result of the year of education through sport, where we can think about how to resolve conflicts more peacefully, where we can put the weapons and where the weapons of peace, namely the olympic idea, rule.
the commission has already done so. what is the public education mandate? how far does it go, what does it entail? i think these are questions which we have addressed here in this report. mr graça moura has done that in a very good way. how far culture should be taught in schools is one question. the other question is, how much is it funded, how much is it promoted? because one thing leads to another. i believe that this is very important if we want our young people to be aware of their own identity, to live with self-confidence and thus also to be able to become active european citizens. that we need to work on this, and that we need to start the dialogue on cultural exchange as early as possible. and that includes learning to offer conflict resolution. this is also part of the cultural education in schools, as we expect, and this is also part of the prerequisite for achieving the lisbon objective, which has been the subject of much discussion today. i think that we must not ignore the culture and cultural history of the european union as the basis of a common economic area and that we must invest much more in this education than we are doing at present. public expenditure on education accounts for 4.94% of gdp on average in the eu. in sweden it is 7%, in austria 5.75%, and here it is being reduced. i think that's the wrong approach, and in many countries, they're actually taking away from education policy instead of investing in education. i wonder what the minds of so many ministers of culture and those responsible in governments are thinking when they all work together to make a successful lisbon strategy, but cut the levers that should move it and implement it. something must be wrong here and you have to push. i think it is very important that we keep pointing out that the cuts in education are also causing serious shortcomings in the so-called musical subjects. because if i don't teach creativity, if i don't give it the space to develop, how are young people going to cope with the constant change that is required in both professional and social life? so i think that's where we need to start: not to cut back on investment in arts, culture and knowledge, but to increase it. that we also promote the much-vaunted cultural diversity, not only preserve it, but promote it and give it the chance for a successful european future.
the commission has already done so. the fact that relations between austria and russia have been very tenuous in recent years, with mr putin also coming to our country to ski, makes the picture of the european union and relations with russia all the more regrettable. these eu-russia relations are not a one-way street. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. to this end, it is essential - and i repeat this - to extend the partnership and cooperation agreement, which has been in force since 1998, to the ten new member states of the european union. so far, this has failed on the grounds that russia is supposedly having to accept deterioration in the market due to eu enlargement and demands compensation payments. this argument is really to be questioned, because the enlargement of the european union will automatically create a strong market for russia, which can only be beneficial to its economy. cooperation in the closure of old nuclear power stations or the disposal of nuclear waste off the kola peninsula and in the north sea leaves much to be desired. the commission has also been very active in the fight against fraud and corruption. the repeated mention of the alleged difficulties of the russian minority in the baltic states is surprising in that the osce and the council of europe no longer see any problem here. in chechnya, on the other hand, the osce was not invited. in austria, most of the asylum seekers and refugees are chechens. this can only be taken as an indication that the situation here is catastrophic. i do not mean to put the crimes committed by terrorists in russia against the civilian population into a relative perspective. there has also been no agreement to take back refugees or illegal migrants, although the eu has shown great sympathy in connection with kaliningrad. i do not want to go into the internal political situation in russia before the presidential elections. we have already spoken about "managed democracy", although of course it must also have an impact on relations between russia and the eu. but it is also pointless to conceal problems whose elimination can only be beneficial to relations between russia and the eu.
the commission has already done so. the south caucasus is a crisis region of european concern, whose economic and political stabilisation has been of interest to the european union not only on humanitarian grounds but also on strategic grounds since the break-up of the soviet union and the nagorno-karabakh conflict. the enlargement of the european union brings these hotbeds of crisis closer to home, and the perspective of the neighbourhood policy, based on the current partnership and cooperation agreement, should contribute to the stabilisation of this area. the elections held in all three caucasian states last year, as the rapporteur has been able to observe from an ad hoc delegation of the european parliament, do not always correspond to our democratic aspirations for elections and democracy. the mixture of ethnic conflict, mass poverty, corruption and lack of democracy is an explosive mixture. in addition, there is the still unresolved nagorno-karabakh conflict, which has cost azerbaijan 20% of its territory, and massive refugee flows, for which the european union has spent some €180 million between 1992 and 1999 alone. the epp-ed group has tried not to add fuel to the fire here and to take account of the sensitivities of the parties to the conflict and to give due weight to the influence of russia and turkey in this area. it is not possible to force a political solution through the back door without the parties concerned and their strategic back-up powers themselves contributing to a reduction in tensions. it is not enough to offer a strategy of containment. the creation of a special representative for the region may therefore have been helpful, not least because it has increased the visibility of the eu's presence in the south caucasus. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. without a solution to the conflicts between the neighbouring countries, in particular turkey and the countries of the south caucasus, there is no real prospect of success for the stability pact for the south caucasus, which the european parliament rightly wants. humanitarian and democratic interests, but also very concrete strategic interests in the energy sector, make it imperative to deepen the strategy for the south caucasus. the foreign ministers took this into account at the beginning of this year when they called on the commission and the high representative to include armenia, azerbaijan and georgia in the new initiative for a greater europe. the reduction of tensions must be accompanied by the recognition that the concept of a greater europe is worthwhile, but without an active conflict resolution by the countries concerned, including turkey, russia, the usa and the european union, there is little prospect of its realisation.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not we want to see the report put to the vote in a first reading agreement as soon as possible during this parliamentary term. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. there will be a very narrow majority at the most in the vote. the decision may be made by a very narrow majority. in any case, at least 50% of the delegates here will be unhappy about it. i would ask that we discuss the report tomorrow, but postpone the vote until april so that we can communicate with the council before then. the communication is already prepared, so that we may actually be able to bring about a first reading agreement.
i am not sure that the commissioner is aware of this. as you rightly said earlier, there are already some guidelines, but implementation leaves a lot to be desired, and i think that we should do more to improve this. we cannot tolerate that when we work here, we propose new directives which are implemented in the countries, and then they are simply not taken into account. then you have to ask yourself what we're really working for here. it is particularly in the field of equal opportunities that these directives need to be implemented. we are all very happy to be celebrating international women's day today, and it is indeed a day of celebration. we have been discussing the issue of equal opportunities policy for two hours now in the plenary, and we must take advantage of this, but what about tomorrow? tomorrow, women's day is over and we are back to the everyday. if mrs karamanou said earlier that we are celebrating 20 years of the women's committee this year, then it must also be stressed that women are also faced with a double burden in this parliament. the fact that the women's committee is not included here means that we are actually represented in three committees and we are trying to concentrate all our efforts in the women's committee, because we have to fight for a lot of recognition and many difficult issues here, which are not always so welcome in the public debate. and if the bastos report is about equality and reconciling work and family life, then surely one of the basic conditions is equal pay for equal work. it would also be easier to divide the waiting periods, it would be easier for one partner to choose voluntarily to stay with the family, to stay with the children part-time, and for the other partner to stay in the workplace. now it's always the financial situation that gets decided, and it's usually better with the men. that means that one of the important principles for which we have been fighting for a long, long time, but which still has its shortcomings, must finally be implemented. if we are to achieve the lisbon objective, it will also be necessary to make an intensive policy on women and the family. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not disrupted by the economic crisis. the second point i would like to make is the concept of the family. what is a family? that too must be defined. it is not the classical family picture alone that counts father, mother and child , but there are different types of life forms, life communities that one must subsume under family, different life designs belong here integrated. and gender mainstreaming should not be confused with family mainstreaming. both have their entitlements. both work at different levels for the same goal, which is that society is served by women and men at the same time, and that we all benefit equally from it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the debate on the role of women is an ideological debate. some say that women should be employed to fulfil themselves, and others see their purpose in the traditional role of mother and wife. i think that's how clichés are served. the fact is, poverty is female. the fact is that there are many modern career women - often referred to as "sneakers" - for whom emancipation has become a matter of course. but it is also a fact that the double burden of family and work is borne predominantly by women. i think the ideological angle has not helped us. the highest goal that exists or can exist in an individual's biography is to be able to shape his own life freely and self-determined. for me, freedom of choice means being able to decide and choose for oneself whether to have a career, a career and a family or a family job. the framework conditions are necessary and it is the task of the political authorities to ensure that these conditions are met in the best possible way. a lot has happened, but not enough. it is about creating childcare facilities with flexible opening hours. it's about waiting times that can be shared. there are interesting models throughout europe, such as the introduction of the service voucher in france, which also creates jobs, or, for example, the introduction of child benefit in my home country of austria, which is trying to realize the freedom of choice for women from the outset.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur very warmly for this report, which we have all been waiting for for so long. the increasing europeanization, the increasing - thank god - democratization, the greater willingness to be informed and to communicate cannot be seen in isolation from the role of the european parties. it is therefore important that we finally implement this european party statute, which we have been negotiating and talking about for so long. i consider it an important day for democracy, an important day for europe. i say this as the representative of the group which has had a european party at european level for the longest time and which was the first to implement a separation between the work of the group and the work of the political parties. i hear this criticism that has been made; it's not new to us, but i still don't understand it. national parties can indeed run in elections to the european parliament; they are funded under national party funding laws, and it would be a mistake if national parties, parties reduced to one nation, were also a party under the european party statute. the european parties have not yet been financed in a transparent manner, without being subject to the control of the court of auditors, and without being proportionate to their strength. i don't want parties to get something twice. i want the funding of political parties to be determined in a transparent and democratic way. a european party must be active in several countries, otherwise it is a purely national party. the european party statute contributes to the europeanisation of political debate and we must strive for the europeanisation of domestic policies rather than the nationalisation of european politics. the statute for european political parties is an important step in that direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i too would like to begin by thanking mrs fourtou for her transparency. she was exemplary. from the first minute, all the shadow reporters were involved in the discussion and also in the trilogue. i've rarely experienced that in this house. and she did that long before her family relationships were picked up and attacked in the press. i don't want to comment on that now, my colleague will. so much for form. but as has already been said, and as my predecessor has said, there are problems. we all agree, including this house, that we need this directive. and so are the players out there in the market, from the telecom operators to the consumer advocates, from the pharmaceutical industry to the generic manufacturers, from the artists to the content producers. we need a good policy. but to tackle these various needs and concerns with a single directive is, in my view, what we have not quite succeeded in doing with the compromise we have negotiated. there are two specific policy areas where a sensible vote is important. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the patent system is open to discussion and so is the common practice in europe. but the fact is that we do not have a patent at european level, and we do not want to be the pioneer of a european patent through the back door of the enforcement directive. this must be discussed carefully and carefully. you can't just let that happen. i therefore ask for your full support for these two amendments, which concern patents and scope. i think that this directive, this compromise, will then have undergone the necessary improvements so that we can adopt it as a compromise together during this parliamentary term.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to point out that the english version is the one that applies to the next amendment no 53. so parasitic copies is the right text.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i voted today in favour of amendments nos 101 and 55 and 53 on the copyright directive. the point is that the introduction of enhanced patent protection is being done through the back door, and the strong position of power of large providers is being further promoted, and as a result many small providers are no longer able to operate successfully on the market. they can't afford long litigation and patent rights. the scope of the directive, which is intended to regulate copyright infringement, is also discussed. i believe that this is the case where the commercial purpose is to provide direct and indirect economic benefits. that is why i have agreed to motion 53. it is not true that this directive creates more legal certainty, because there is no clear and uniform definition. the eu needs, in order to get closer to lisbon, a patent law that protects financially weak, mostly small entrepreneurs and inventors and thus promotes innovation, not a patent law that leads to monopolisation via patent rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i did not approve the amendment to the rules of procedure of this house concerning the financing of political parties, not because i do not agree with everything and everyone, but because it is the logical consequence and continuation of the fact that i voted against the leinen report with my colleagues in june last year. the implementation of this regulation is discriminatory towards the small groups in this house who are active at european level but are not in any group. the large party alliances are funded, but the smaller ones are not, creating a democratic deficit between the two groups. we all know that political parties and their organisations depend on financial subsidies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. all that mr lagendijk and mrs pack have said is actually an argument against the lagendijk report. i personally will not agree, not because i think mr lagendijk has written a bad report; but what kind of parliament is this that insults the council and the commission for their proposals, and then we say: 'well, because we are a parliament, we will vote for it.' so i won't agree! i believe that the arguments put forward by mr pack and mr lagendijk are correct, namely that an instrument has been invented here without any real background. i can imagine that something will be done with the european partnerships, but there must be clear objectives and criteria. but at least this proposal does not yet contain it. i hope commissioner verheugen will press for this. since i expect him to play a crucial role in the new commission - he deserved it - i assume he will also have a corresponding influence on the european partnerships becoming an instrument that operates according to clear criteria. my recommendation was not accepted by the committee that the association and stabilisation agreements should be successfully implemented over a number of years. successful, not somehow! i am under the impression of a visit to kosovo under the chairmanship of mrs pack. my impression is that neither the albanian nor the serbian side of europe is under enough and sufficient pressure to do what they should do - to work together on the future of kosovo. my impression is also valid for some other countries. croatia is an exception - the previous government and the current government - because they have understood what is at stake and will follow this path. the commission, but also we in parliament - we are not innocent of the situation that has arisen - should work to make europe's voice heard more clearly and more clearly. i have visited president rugova as a symbol. i appreciate him and have known him for a long time - not as well as mrs pack, but i also have a very good personal relationship with him. but if we find that - even if it is only kosovo and not yet an independent state - that at its seat there is an albanian, a kosovar and an american flag, but no european flag - and that is not felt to be special - then i wonder where is the voice of europe? we shall bring him a european flag so that europe may have a place in his house. but it's not just him, and i don't want to criticize that as a personal element. i believe that just as the european flag is not represented in his house, so too the european point of view and perspective is not or is not sufficiently represented in many areas of the balkans. it is the joint task of the council, the commission and parliament to make this voice more visible. commissioner verheugen, when we have this debate in a year's time and you convince me that this european partnership has succeeded in doing this - at least in its approaches - i will agree to the lagendijk report afterwards, but not tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner verheugen has convinced me. i'll agree to that. i trust him to do the right thing, and i hope he does.
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. i am pleased that now the final phase of a short but intense process is beginning. we can complete the programme and thus ensure that the young people and the youth organisations can implement their programmes. it was a very intensive journey indeed; we were once again under time pressure. i would like to see this changed in future for the new programmes, so that we have a little more time to look at each point of view in more detail and that we are given more scope for discussion. the main aim is to promote the youth groups. we must be particularly concerned about this, because if we want to build trust in europe or the european union, it is young people who understand europe best and have the least difficulty in breaking down their prejudices. this must be supported and therefore they must be more closely involved in the european process. this can be done in several ways: the european youth forum is a central element, bringing its contacts to the countries and doing with young people many difficult, necessary and useful things to enable them to live in a european and also in a democratic union that goes beyond. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it was proposed that the action programmes be harmonized with regard to the co-financing rate - which we have been fighting for for a long time - the principle of degressivity and the duration. the period up to 2008 is likely to be very difficult to implement in practice. we have long discussed the same 20% co-financing rate. this will not work quite as well, as some organisations, especially in the education sector, are so minimally supported that further cuts will effectively cancel out the funding. for youth organisations, the 20% figure is therefore on the verge of being acceptable, as it is becoming increasingly difficult to find sponsors. the economic situation is not such that companies are now also devoting themselves to young people. in many other sectors it is much easier to find sponsors than for youth organisations. that is why they need our special support. i also hope that the principle of degressivity, which requires that from the third year onwards two and a half per cent of the amount of the previous year's funding be retained, will be a success for the groups and youth organisations which have not been taken into account until then. this will be particularly important in the context of enlargement. after may day, we'll have more young people to talk to. we must invest more and we must support them actively. these youth organisations, which aim to promote international dialogue among young people and to disseminate information on relevant issues to the widest possible young audience, are also the european union's mouthpieces. it is not just about promoting the interests of young people, but also about conveying content in a way that is appropriate to the interests of young people. we must take their interests into account, but they must also be involved and thus carry forward the whole range of european policies and their implications. the future of the european union is in the hands of young people, and we should not forget that.
the commission has already done so. first of all, thank you for sticking to the schedule. it is good that we can now experience the new programme, and i would like to ask three short questions. after you want to increase and expand everything - leonardo from about 45,000 to 150,000 participants, 10% of primary school students instead of 1.5%, and in adult education from 2,000 to 50,000 and so on - how much will be expected in the budget? we were at 0.8% before. we want to improve performance and quality, and we need to find a way to finance that. and what are the stages in achieving this goal? how are we going to get there by 2012 or 2010 and who will then finance the extra expense when i hear that many countries are no longer prepared to pay more than 1% into the european budget?
the commission has already done so. the world's poorest countries, we have heard from the media, have asked for sugar quotas to be allocated to them. will the commission be prepared to include these aspects in the legislative proposals it is expected to present in the summer? my second question is: when will we be able to expect the commission's proposals in parliament in the summer?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the fourth framework directive is a subsidiary of the framework directive on clean air. this framework directive already has three adopted daughters, the first on sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, particulates and lead, the second on benzene and carbon monoxide, and the third on ozone. the first two have been targeted and are anchored in the limits. the so-called parent directive, the parent framework directive, also requires limit values for the heavy metals arsenic, cadmium, nickel, mercury and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. that's the basic premise. the commission has already set a target value for ozone in the parent framework directive and has acted accordingly. in the current discussion on this fourth subsidiary directive, there are three positions: the commission's position is to monitor and set a target value for the so-called bps. i think that this is contrary to the parent directive and there have been earlier drafts by the commission, which i am aware of, which set limits. so that was already considered there. the environment committee voted by a very narrow majority of 26 to 24 in favour of the limit values. these limits are not set by me, i was quite bad at chemistry in school, but by experts from the commission, international experts and a committee which is scientifically based. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. there is also a great deal of evidence from industry that these targets and thresholds can be met. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have therefore been very accommodating to industry by saying that where there is a basic burden, where there are already prior burdens, these objectives cannot be achieved in the shortest possible time. in addition, the environment committee requested and commissioned a study by the institute for european environmental policy. it also confirms that limit values are possible. the third position is that of the council, with which we have already had preliminary negotiations, or contacts and discussions. the council or a possible majority in the council can also envisage targets. that is what the future debate will probably be about. we must be clear about what these heavy metals are. these are genotoxic human carcinomas which cause a change in dna, a change in the genetic material, and this in very small quantities. it's obvious what this is about. i think that the argument in the commission document that we are carrying out a so-called cost-benefit analysis here and are comparing what it costs in principle to have filters or technical measures, and what it actually saves by reducing cancer deaths, is extremely cynical. the second stage, the secondary benefits in terms of disease cases, have not been calculated at all because it is difficult to calculate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we have postponed the vote until tomorrow with the intention of reaching an agreement with the council during this parliamentary term. i am glad that the commissioner is of the opinion that we can perhaps use these weeks to find a compromise that will finally allow us to look each other in the eye.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! somewhere in paris, under the care of the president of the convention, giscard d'estaing, there is a huge plaque. she was standing in the front of the hall on the last day of the convention. there all the members of the convention registered and signed their agreement to the convention's grand constitutional draft. i asked giscard d'estaing yesterday to release this tablet. i would suggest that they be placed on the front page of the next summit of heads of state and government, some of whom cannot even remember that their own personal representatives participated in this constitutional process and that they confirmed the outcome of the convention with the signature of their own personal representative. perhaps the heads of state and government will remember what the convention was and what it has done. at the moment we have two main problems: the convention cannot defend its own result, and with the end of the convention the european parliaments have also lost the place where they can coordinate with each other and defend together the parliamentary and democratic dimension of the constitution. the second main problem, mr president-in-office, is that the convention was open to the public. the intergovernmental conference is again that clandestine, discreet, obscure meeting of our princes who are taking part in this feudal way in the development of the european constitution. a constitution which is by its very nature a parliamentary task. it would therefore be good, and it would be the duty of governments, to have respect for the parliaments, respect for the european constitutional authors, to the extent that there is not just one criterion in their deliberations. the convent had goals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. what are the criteria used by the governments in their 320 proposals which have been made public here so far? one thing: more power to governments. that's their only criterion! all 320 proposals have only one denominator: no more social europe, no more democracy, no more fundamental rights and citizenship, no more parliamentarism, no more capacity for action in europe, but only one criterion: more power for governments. whether this upsets the balance of democracy or whether it makes a mockery of republican thinking, whether it disempowers parliaments, that is not their criterion. if you are very concerned, you might recognize a second criterion: nationalism. the whole of the igc is filled with a spirit which we no longer want - nationalism in europe - and the mixture of more power for governments and nationalism is the greatest danger for this continent. i admire the gentleness of my colleagues. we write a resolution every four weeks as petitioners. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and we're not doing well as beggars. they can't hear us. it doesn't change anything. five months, you know? we spent 16 months drafting a constitution for europe, for the 105. what did 25 countries do in five months? a pile of shrapnel from it. mr president, thank you for your patience. perhaps you can help to ensure that this plaque, which will one day be of historical importance, is placed on the council's front wall. let me remind you that this is about europe. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe should be built on four pillars: peace, democracy, freedom and social cohesion. question to the council: what do you stand for? question to the commission: what do you stand for? ask yourself, what have we accomplished? there's not much. we can still have peace if we do not already understand the new civil wars as war. democracy is not far behind. i think there is a huge problem with the legitimacy of this union, and what has happened in the past few months speaks more of further disintegration than integration. it is dangerous, but it is also dangerous that we are hiding, that we are treated as if we were free here in parliament, whereas we have seen how the leaders of the parties have massaged the so-called free members of parliament in the nice affair. we are also suffering here in the house from the fact that the stalinist reflexes of the socialist group, which very often unjustly calls itself social democratic, are leading to blockades. we must change that, and especially in relation to the council, not just in this house. there is no democracy without transparency!
i am not saying that we should not be concerned. the initial situation following the failure of the brussels summit is rather bizarre. germany and france are making big speeches in the constitutional debate to move europe forward. but it is they who have persistently ignored the common rules of the game. i think the effect of such behaviour is fatal. the fact that jacques chirac speaks of the pioneer group and outlines a two-speed europe is not in itself tragic. with schengen, with the euro, there are different speeds. the tragedy is that there have been disagreements. they are not the ones who are moving europe forward. the initial situation for the draft constitution has not improved. the negotiations on the eu budget may threaten to bring about some kind of collision between the constitution and the financial framework. i can only warn you. the draft constitution is a mixture of good ideas that bring progress, but also questionable implementations, such as pre-programmed competence disputes, for example in foreign policy, between the eu foreign minister and the future president of the eu council. ladies and gentlemen, it is high time that the eu prepared for a larger community. i think it is a bit absolutist to forbid the heads of state and government to discuss a constitution. i am opposed to the pretence that these heads of government are the coup-makers of europe. but it is also written in the pedigree of these chiefs that they sent representatives to the convention. i am in favour of political pragmatism, and we must safeguard what has been achieved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament. 84 of the 105 delegates to the convention were representatives of national parliaments and heads of government. this fact once again illustrates the extent to which the member states are involved in the decision-making and opinion-forming process of the european union. we want the constitution, we need it, and we demand an agreement before 1 may! the second part is lisbon. the lisbon strategy is the programme for implementing the european regulatory model of the eco-social market economy. the spring summit is not only to reiterate every year that the lisbon declaration still applies, although the seriousness and political will to implement it are lacking, and the national governments who have the instruments in hand are lacking, and so is the commission, which is preparing and accompanying the spring summit sloppyly and inadequately. the summit must not become a blah-blah summit. it must provide concrete answers to citizens' questions on growth and employment and social cohesion. i therefore call for a concrete innovation and investment pact for competitiveness, growth and social cohesion. it clearly states who has to do what and by when. i would ask the commission to make this pact the basis of its spending policy in its financial planning, alongside the projects it has approved. we need a public debate, a public debate on the degree of implementation of the innovation and investment pact, similar to the debate on the respect of the stability and growth pact. the failure to comply with the stability and growth pact is detrimental to the lisbon objectives, and those who do not comply with it are also those - germany and france with belgium - who are the most lagging behind in the implementation of the internal market directives. let us not play one against the other, but let us do what we have to do!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very pleased that today we have been able to vote on the new rules governing the tobacco market. the european parliament's proposal for partial decoupling is the right way forward, because the decisions of the luxembourg council in 2003 also provide for partial decoupling for all market regimes. as mr maaten has already said, this is a matter of well over 400 000 jobs being affected. i would like to make one thing very clear: if anyone thinks that everyone will stop smoking if tobacco is no longer grown in europe, he is dreaming. the tobacco would then be imported and we would only be harming the european economy, that is to say farmers and workers.
co-author of the report. i am very grateful to the president-in-office of the council for his reply. as this is the last report by parliament before the historic date of eu enlargement, i would like to make a statement in my capacity as co-chair of the joint parliamentary committee for the czech republic and as rapporteur for malta. the closer we get to that date, the more sober our expectations become. enlargement will not solve all the problems at once. i keep receiving letters from citizens who point out that, contrary to the official line, beneš decrees are still being applied today in open restitution issues. i can only say that i would like to see a more sensitive approach to history and to historical figures such as edvard beneš. nevertheless, it is a country like austria that is one of the biggest beneficiaries of enlargement, benefiting from its increased trade and investment links, especially with the czech republic. we have been convinced that the czech republic's accession to the community is a good thing, because we expect the enlargement of central europe to bring about peaceful development and economic growth. as for malta, i can only congratulate this important small mediterranean country at the crossroads between europe and north africa on its decision to join the european union, which is now supported by all political forces, and also on the efforts it has made to prepare for the eu. the small island state has had a great challenge and a great achievement in adopting the acquis communautaire, given the weak structure of the shipyards and the general transition from a protected island economy to an open market economy. but i can only say to the maltese people that as a small country, you need not fear being lost in the big european union. the fact that foreign minister borg has been appointed as malta's commissioner also shows the importance malta attaches to its accession to the eu.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission is not i can only emphasize the presentation made by my predecessor. the great progress made in the new member states must not, however, conceal the fact that there are still major problems, particularly in the social field, and increasingly in employment policy. economic adjustment, combined with industrial restructuring processes, which are usually painful for workers, is creating increasing problems on the labour markets of the new member states. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. social standards and social legislation are a prerequisite and an instrument for the successful implementation of the lisbon strategy in an enlarged europe. the committee on social affairs also calls on the new member states to give greater weight to human capital in their political agendas. there must be no backwardness or social stagnation in the european union of 25 countries. that would be the way to a new conflict situation. the court held that the commission had not infringed article 85 (1) of the treaty by failing to take account of the following considerations: the fact that social and employment issues are treated as soft law is a problem for the whole of the european union's development.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the closer the date of accession approaches, the more often i and probably other colleagues are asked, were we not in a hurry? is this accession, this enlargement, not coming too soon? if, of course, we believe that all problems must be solved before accession, then the date is too early, and we could all probably not be members of the european union. but if you think that the time is right to solve these problems together with these countries in a common union, then i think that the date is right. because, despite all the justified criticism, these countries have made great efforts in recent years to modernize themselves, to develop their societies. however, i think that we should pay particular attention to a few problems: corruption has been mentioned, crime has been mentioned. the problem i want to highlight here is the social problem, the social question. because i believe that it is not just about price stability, zero deficit, tax cuts, but above all about achieving growth, creating new jobs - and more stable jobs - and supporting and promoting social stability in these countries. the fact that there are problems has been shown in the last few weeks and months, for example in the case of the roma and sinti in slovakia. you can draw a relatively logical chain from tax cuts, spending cuts, social spending cuts to these recent riots. i do not want to limit this to this one problem, and it is of course also true of other countries. if we consider that there are between six and eight million roma and sinti in europe as a whole, i believe that the wish of some people - including myself - to have a commissioner who is also responsible for this issue, namely the integration of europe's minorities and in particular of the roma and sinti, is quite justified. i would ask the commission to pay particular attention to the question of social integration, especially the integration of the roma and sinti, also after 1 may. i know that commissioner verheugen is well aware of the importance of this issue, and i believe that the whole commission should bear this important issue in mind in the weeks and months, indeed in the years to come.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm afraid i have to start my remarks with a criticism. the fact that the president and the presidency have left us does not bode well for this project. we have had very successful and positive discussions on the subject of enlargement in the presence of minister roche, but now that we are talking about making enlargement technically possible and giving it substance, the presidency is not there. this is a failure which must be explicitly blamed on the otherwise very busy irish presidency. i would like to point out, as a number of speakers have done before me, that we need a functioning infrastructure for the functioning of the european union and, in particular, for the functioning of the internal market. without adequate rail, road and water connections, it will not work. the enlargement of the eu makes it urgent to extend this network; more specifically, to establish or re-establish links that already existed in europe in part 70 years ago, but which were largely rebuilt in 70 years of communist rule over parts of eastern europe. we must now make a painstaking effort to close these gaps. this is particularly true of a number of connections from my home country of austria. i have made a number of minor amendments in this connection and i can expressly disagree with mr jarzembowski: it was not a random majority, but it was targeted and very much concerned to close the gaps in the service of the cause. this is particularly true of the question of the graz-spieelfeld rail link, which will also provide a fully functional rail link to the new member state of slovenia. the question is linz-prague and the so-called summerauerbahn, which is to link the czech republic with a reasonable and functional rail link. i would be glad if, despite the opposition, not least from my own country, we could also bring the so-called southern railway and the semmering connection into this network. i think that what the vice-president said earlier is very important in the context of our discussion today and the further progress we can hope to make. it's not that we need lines drawn. the lines drawn must become reality and that is why we must ensure that the projects are actually taken up and implemented and that the funding is provided for them. if we succeed in doing so, it will also have a positive effect on employment. we could do some of the things we always ask for in the context of lisbon in a quick and effective way.
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. on 1 may a number of new countries joined the european union. but this 1 may will not, of course, bring about the interconnection, the real unification of europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. if i remember that we have fought fierce battles in this chamber, mr jarzembowski, on the question of the transit system, and that some of you, including you, mr jarzembowski, have said: 'why not invest more in the railways?' then we have the opportunity now to support not only austria but also the neighbouring countries, if we give our consent tomorrow to these railway projects, which will connect east and west, north and south, becoming a reality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not just that it helps our neighbouring countries, especially the czech republic and slovenia. if we think ahead a little, we are also including the whole of the balkans, and if we want to have a relief on the road, especially for those who have to drive on the road and drive there in a meaningful way, whether private cars or trucks, then, i think, we will need this railway construction. i am very pleased, madam vice-president, that a representative of the commission, also in the debate in committee, has described the summerauer project, from prague to linz and southwards, in particular, as very positive. i hope that we will also get the commission's support for these projects. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the infrastructure in the community. the fact that austria, which is very much affected by truck traffic, can also benefit from it is an effect i do not want to deny. but i hope that we will get the support of all sides of this house, because it is not a question of selfish interests, but of the interests of the whole of europe, and we should pursue and support them by consensus as far as possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we talk a lot about the fact that older people will have to work longer in the future and that they are a special economic factor, but far too little about the fact that as they get older they need more help, more social and health care. it is also a cultural issue how we respond to the needs and fears of older people. human dignity and the right to personal freedom are of paramount importance, especially in care facilities. the primal mental power of every human being to want to live and to fight for it must be nurtured. the first is that strong will makes life much easier for carers and also for the elderly. this is why it is so important to develop training in all health professions, from nursing to medicine. the technical and artisanal aspects are even easier to learn, understand and develop than psychological knowledge, empathy and sensitivity. but it is not only vocational training that needs to be more closely linked to the increase in life expectancy. research also needs to be more involved in gerontology and the promotion of programmes in palliative medicine and to network across europe. prevention needs to be better underpinned by more research - and therefore more safety. only this interaction ensures that the cost of health care is also managed in a controlled manner. this own-initiative report, which brings to our attention the questions and problems of ageing, highlights one of the major european social issues and calls for our continuing political work in the field of health. i would like to express my deepest respect for the rapporteur's work.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in the report on social security on 14 january we made it very clear that social and health policy issues are matters of general interest. the single market is not the only starting point. europe-wide, continent-wide demographic change is our greatest challenge in terms of labour market, economic, social, health and budgetary policy. but if we want to strengthen the internal market, if we want to create mobility and flexibility on the one hand - and social security - on the other hand, and if we want to tackle the major socio-political challenges together, we must not reduce them to national borders. as president of the austrian aid foundation, i face these challenges on a daily basis. i believe that we need to review the effective sovereign tasks of the public sector and the consistent transfer of public tasks of the non-state sector to private non-profit institutions at the federal, state and municipal levels. the right of self-determination of the persons cared for includes the right to choose the place of residence and care. most people want to stay in their own home, even if they are in need of care. the provision of care is often better facilitated by mobile care services, which allow for more flexibility in adapting to the actual needs of patients. this also makes a much more economical use of available resources. but this requires that the quality of care is regulated as uniformly as possible, and at least coordinated, not only nationally but also across borders, that the training of care staff is regulated as uniformly as possible nationally and coordinated at european level, that the evaluation of providers is transparent and objective, and that funding can be ensured by long-term contracts. ladies and gentlemen, we need to upgrade and expand mobile services and the necessary complementary services. we need to integrate services, improve the management of the interface between in-patient and mobile services and promote comprehensive and patient-oriented case management. i conclude by saying that we need to strengthen the resources in the personal environment of relatives and to increase the support and guidance of relatives. the state and europe must also create the necessary regulatory framework conditions for this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are all deeply affected by the attack in spain. i would ask you to give the honourable member full information on the following matter. according to media reports, there have been irregularities or fraud in connection with the lists of signatures. i would like to ask the bureau to clarify this matter fully and to inform all members of what it is that they are dealing with and to clarify the individual cases. the worst thing that could happen before the elections would be that - as is being claimed in the media - some members of this parliament would continue to illegally raise money by signing petitions. i ask that these matters be fully clarified and that we all be fully and openly informed. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to say that the conference of presidents, which met this morning, is already discussing this issue and that there should be an official statement from parliament. we have to stop the constant undermining of the hard work here by rumors. the names belong on the table. if there are such names, then we must act against them. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by saying that both directives are part of the financial services action plan and therefore contribute to strengthening and creating the internal financial market. secondly, both directives are a success for the european parliament, they are a success for the parliamentary codecision procedure. thirdly, both directives, as they are now on the table, have substantially changed the commission's draft and the council's common position in the direction of parliament's position. it has already been mentioned in relation to the transparency directive that the mandatory introduction of quarterly reports for eu-listed public limited companies proposed by the commission is off the table, and that is a good thing. the transparency requirements for bonds have been dramatically improved. the newly agreed formulation for the publication of business information ensures that member states can also require their companies to publish in printed media. the simultaneous dissemination of information has been discontinued. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the minimum price is not exceeded. but it is important that we have found a compromise here between the various national interests, the european interests of the internal market and selfishness on the basis of the parliament's report, and i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs theresa villiers, very warmly on this. it has succeeded in getting at least three countries which are very important for the financial market, namely the united kingdom, denmark and sweden, to agree to the common position, but these countries have now joined in and market participants now have a better directive at their disposal.
i have to say, madam president, the proposal for a directive on transparency requirements is a key measure of the financial services action plan and aims to harmonise transparency requirements for issuers and their securities. the commission, of course, but also the national supervisors have a major role to play in the implementation of the directive. the internal market requires a uniform and reliable supply of information for buyers of securities and no discrimination against issuers of securities. the targets set out in recital 26a are therefore appropriate. a well-developed capital market also requires increased transparency for the necessary credibility. this is a very important aspect of the european union's policy on the environment. it is not by chance that member states with high equity capitalisation and high stock exchange turnover in relation to gdp also have higher growth and employment rates. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. a recent austrian study shows that there is also a significant positive correlation between equity capitalisation and stock market turnover on the one hand and the financiability and level of r & d expenditure in an economy on the other. in all these complex economic contexts, trust and information play a major role. in austria, for example, the stock exchange act requires the main public companies listed on the stock exchange to submit quarterly reports. the possibility of a national upgrade to quarterly reports without further commitment is therefore a viable option in the current state of the internal market.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we should have a discussion away from emotions. terrorists are not afraid of our discussions, nor of directives or regulations, but they are only afraid of concrete and effective measures. we will have to take appropriate measures to protect ourselves and the citizens of europe. that means we must act instead of discussing it forever. what we need is cooperation within the european union and cooperation beyond the european union, that is to say also with the united states of america. we expect, of course, that certain rules of the game will be established and respected in these cooperations. we have made proposals and the commission has agreed that certain expectations should be taken into account, such as that only data which is used exclusively for the purpose of combating terrorism should be transmitted, that a reasonable period of storage should be provided - the reduction required - that access should be granted only by a single authority in the united states, that control should be provided, that passengers should be informed and that citizens should also be represented before a union authority on the european side. those were our demands. we have been assured that these demands - and there were others - will be met. if that is the case and we can also install a push and filter system, then we should take the opportunity to target appropriate cooperation in the fight against terrorism. we're one step away from graduation. we should see to it that we act quickly before it is too late for the european union, for the safety of our citizens.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. in 2002, we are faced with a new sharp increase in abuse, mismanagement and irregularities in the european union. if we add the cases reported by the member states to what olaf also revealed a few years earlier , we arrive at a figure of over two billion euros. i don't remember this amount ever being that large. now we're talking about -- and i want to emphasize this -- irregularity, and we know that only a fraction of these irregularities turn out to be fraudulent in the course of further investigation. the analysis of the various media is usually too brief here - and i say this in all clarity as a representative of parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the increase in the structural funds is particularly marked, with the amounts notified having tripled from around 200 million to over 600 million. the question arises as to what is the state of the reporting behaviour of the member states. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the number of cases of the disease in the member states, the number of cases of the disease in the community and the number of cases of the disease in the member states. we know that there are huge shortcomings in the area of harmonization, and i say this particularly with regard to the reform of structural policies, but also with regard to other policies. we are here as a budget control committee, not as a time historian. what we want is to develop strengths for the future from the weaknesses of past policies. i can only make this claim for my part of the job. the same applies to recoveries. commissioner, what is the point in preventing fraud if we have to wait almost a decade for the money to come back? as regards one particular member state, italy, the recovery has been awaited for many years. it's an open secret, and so is the fact that it's used for politics. the second major area is agriculture. it is a long-standing concern of our committee to finally persuade the commission and the member states to abolish export refunds, and here in particular export refunds for the unspeakable, namely the suffering, unethical and cruel transport of live cattle. it is not clear how, in 2002, 226 000 cattle could have been taken to the small country of lebanon from some 262 000 live cattle that we exported using some 62 million euros of taxpayers' money. we have serious indications that this country is far from having the capacity to absorb, consume, slaughter or even process this amount itself. commissioner, we recall a case not long ago when the sudden increase in meat exports to jordan turned out to be a circumvention of un sanctions against iraq. i therefore cannot understand why the commission is once again sticking its head in the sand like an ostrich and saying that we know nothing. we call on the anti-fraud agency to take action here. i'm not talking about prevention here. i'm waiting for the first animal rights activists to accompany this kind of export and we'll see the first images in our media. and this is being done with european taxpayers' money! the third point i would like to make is that a few days ago we witnessed the unprecedented house search by a journalist, not in connection with events in this house, as is being written today, but in connection with the paul van buitenen case. we would like to ask how olaf handled this case. we recall the criticisms made by the ombudsman in this connection. we would remind you that the office's investigations must be initiated only on reasonable suspicion, must be conducted without interruption and must be of a reasonable duration, i.e. not artificially prolonged. we ask the olaf monitoring committee to give an opinion on whether these rules have been breached in this case and whether the investigation may have been misused to put pressure on or intimidate journalists. mr kendell, chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, has informed me that the item will be on the agenda for the next meeting of the committee in april. he also confirmed to me that olaf had not sought the opinion of the committee before the belgian judiciary was involved. mr noack, a member of the committee, told the press: the committee also stressed that the commission should be able to take action to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. i would like to stress at this point how important the report of the monitoring committee will be to us in this matter. it is the test case of whether olaf controls work and whether consequences are drawn when things go wrong. i can only warn those responsible at olaf in this context not to hide behind the belgian judiciary. in all cases, everything that olaf has done in this matter and has passed on to the judiciary must be presented to the supervisory committee. we need to get this cleared up quickly. it cannot be a matter of months, but of a few weeks.
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. thank you for your final words, which give us great optimism that we can eliminate the inequality that exists in the insurance industry. after a very intensive work and a very long preparatory phase, we are finally able to vote on the report. this proposal for a directive was announced in the commission's social agenda in june 2000 and was called for by the heads of state or government at the nice european council in december 2000. four years later, the same gentlemen are here today, opposing such a directive after the draft has been presented. it was only three years later, in september last year, that a proposal was put forward which also had to go through the commission very hard. i, as rapporteur, then held a public hearing in september 2003 to seek a broad public opinion on this matter. this hearing was very interesting and produced some exciting results, including the fact that the often cited statistic that proves that women can be assigned higher insurance premiums is to be questioned. for example, in the uk, manchester has the lowest life expectancy for men and women, west dorset has men and west summerset has the highest life expectancy for women. similarly, men from the former east germany are living longer than men in west germany. in austria too, there is an east-west gap in life expectancy. that means that the gender factor alone is probably not enough. i think we can take account not only of economic facts when we approach this equality directive, but this is a purely political decision. it is the political will to declare here that i am for equality or i am not. we also very much regretted that the final commission proposal did not include the areas of education, decision-making, media content and advertising content in the proposal for this directive. i therefore agree with mrs swiebel that a phased approach is certainly not the best solution, but perhaps a first tolerable one. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the directive, including a number of amendments to the directive on equal treatment for men and women. i would like to thank commissioner diamantopoulou for the important step she has taken and at the same time encourage you, commissioner, to adopt shortly on behalf of the commission further proposals to combat sexual discrimination in a comprehensive way and to ensure de facto equality in areas other than employment. this directive is clearly based on article 13, which was reinstated in the amsterdam treaty in 1997, and i do not share the view of several colleagues in the legal affairs committee that it should be based on article 95. i believe that this report would have allowed for purely economic access within the meaning of the internal market, and i am not sure that the council would have actually given the european parliament a say. a crucial point and the heart of this report is the actuarial factor which the insurance lobby has fallen upon and which has caused the most divergence. gender shall not be used as a factor in the calculation of premiums and benefits. gender as an objective factor is discriminatory, because gender is not chosen at random, but women and men are born as such. insurance companies and, unfortunately, also - as i have heard from many conversations - women in the insurance industry, for example, defend that the costs of pregnancy should be borne only by women, on the grounds that they also take the medical benefits. solidarity between women who have children and those who do not have children is there, because women all pay the same amount. but what about the men who are not immune to the fact that women have children? the family policy is a big word at the moment, there are calls for the promotion of families and the necessary increase in the birth rate, economic ministers are loudly announcing improvements in family policy and are also loudly opposed to this directive. this shows that family policy, like women's policy, very often remains an alibi policy of our politicians and that fine words often remain in the air without concrete concessions. i would like to make it clear that it should still be possible to calculate contributions according to risk, but that gender should not be included as a factor in these calculations. the use of the gender factor as well as the race factor as a basis for calculating premiums constitutes discrimination, since these factors are beyond the control of the individual.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. 95% of live animal transport is by road, and we all know the images of tortured animals being transported for days in confined spaces across and out of europe. there is no doubt that action is needed. i supported the proposals in this report which help to improve the standards for the transport of live animals, such as the setting of minimum standards for livestock vehicles, but above all the introduction of additional monitoring measures, because no good regulation works if it is not controlled. and there are already many regulations, but they are not being implemented or monitored. amendment no 2, which i have co-signed, aims to prevent the maximum transport time being exceeded through the back door, so to speak, by clarifying the concept of 'transport'. the time taken for transport must be reduced. the vote will take place today. amendment no 81 states - and i quote - that the transport of animals of the species of mammals may be carried out in several stages, that is to say, it may be carried out over and over again, and that will make the timetable more flexible. after a block vote has been requested, it is not possible to vote against amendment no 81 individually. i don't think this is sustainable. the best thing to do is to transport the animals as little as possible. i think that's a wish for the christ child. it must be understood that the promotion of live animals by the sale of animals is an incentive system and that it is therefore an illusion to minimise the number of animal transports as long as this promotion exists.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr albert maat, very warmly for his report, because he has really tried to reconcile the very opposite views of the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment in a document that we can live with. i would also like to support what has been said today: animal welfare must be dealt with scientifically and not just emotionally. the avoidance of unnecessary transport of animals and the protection of animals during transport are fundamental concerns of agriculture, especially of farmers and producers. however, it is necessary to ensure that the legal provisions are also practical and that the implementation of the provisions does not lead to competitive disadvantages for our european farmers. the whole thing has to be kept in a sensible economic context and it has to be in line with european union legislation. commissioner byrne has also raised this point. it is of course in the interests of all - farmers, animal welfare and the animals themselves - that they arrive at their destination in good health and under the best possible conditions. this is particularly true of animals for slaughter, because the quality of the meat depends on it. let me make one point, mr president: once the animals leave the farm, they are no longer the responsibility of the producer, the farmer, but of the transporter or the buyer. i am also very grateful to the rapporteur for having taken into account the traditional nomadic and grazing livestock which are essential in the mountain regions. and now a sentence: there is a large-scale campaign under way in austria - and i believe in other member states - by an international organisation called peta on the keeping and slaughtering of farm animals. the treatment of animals is compared to the atrocities of the nazi regime. this is an insult to all citizens who died in the holocaust. i ask you to protest.
the many opinions and the different arguments show how sensitive the subject is and what responsibility we must be aware of here. it's about living things that we transport, that we work with, that we trade with, and that we ultimately eat. and that's something that non-vegetarians have to admit. the question is, how do we treat the animals? and the question is, why do they have to transport animals so far? is it necessary to transport animals for slaughter halfway across europe? no, it's not that. hence the clear requirement in this report that animals for slaughter must be brought within a 500 km radius for slaughter. and i think you have to make sure that they can be slaughtered in that circle. it is not an excuse to say that we have too few slaughterhouses here. then you have to make sure they're there. this also stimulates the local economy, and it is especially beneficial to the animals. this is one of the most important and also the most delicate points: how far can the animals be transported? mast animals are included in the slaughter animals, but i think we should still make a distinction here. instead of being thrown into a pot with the animals for slaughter, the animals should be brought to a farm on this short journey. another important point seems to have been lost, namely that checks are carried out. there's a policy, there was one. if there have been shortcomings, it is also because the system has not worked. it was the lack of implementation of the directive in the member states on the one hand and the inefficient control system on the other that continued to cause suffering to the animals. and i think that's something that needs to be pointed out. the best regulation is of no use, the best directive is of no use if it is not controlled or implemented. and that's ultimately what matters, and that's what's going to benefit the animals.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, a word on the rules of procedure: the vote was postponed to today without the members being aware of it. i think it is a little undemocratic that it is not possible to hold separate votes or even to call for a rollcall vote. the citizens will be very surprised and will say once again: how undemocratic this european union is! thank you to mrs schierhuber. it has clearly separated man from animal, and i too would like to reject the abhorrent comparison with the holocaust. i'd like to say something to mr. adam. it is not right that everyone who eats meat is a torturer of animals, so to speak. you see, in austria, there's a national dish -- this is the viennese schnitzel -- and i can tell you exactly where the meat for this schnitzel comes from, from the waldviertel or from styria. it's usually only a two or three-hour transport. in austria, you can only transport animals for six hours. there's no need to torture animals if you want to eat them later. it's a form of rethinking, and of course, rethinking hurts. you see, as a christian democrat, of course, you might have a slightly different relationship to animals in general. to me, animals are god's creatures, passionate creatures of god. i don't know if you have any saints, mr. adam. my favorite saint is francis of assisi, and he loved not only people but animals as well. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! we are talking these days about a new middle east policy for the greater middle east. if we are to avoid a bubble, then i think there are two things which must be at the heart of such a policy. first, the solution of the main conflict in the middle east. i wish the united states would spend as much energy - i don't say military - as it did in iraq to solve the real middle east problem. i would also like europe to devote as much energy as some member states of the european union do to solving the middle east problem, because then there would be fewer terrorist attacks, then there would be fewer illegal killings like that of sheikh yassin. as commissioner patten said, the culture of death must be interrupted and eradicated. second: yes, we need reform in the arab world. but unlike some of my colleagues here, i have not seen much of the american support for reform movements in jordan, egypt or saudi arabia in recent years. i did not notice much of the support for democracy and human rights there. if the united states of america is now writing this on their flags, then i am very much in favour of us joining them in supporting those reform forces inside the arab countries. because there are enough women who are unhappy with the still strong discrimination against women. there are enough minorities who are unhappy with the discrimination against minorities. there are enough people in the arab countries who are dissatisfied with discrimination and with the disregard for human rights and the rights of minorities. we have had those here in the committee on foreign affairs who have recently produced a report showing where the obstacles, the obstacles to modernisation and democratisation which the arab countries themselves have recognised, are. i believe that the only viable way forward in a new middle east policy is not the threat of military intervention from outside, but rather - especially for europe - support for the forces of reform in the arab countries. we would have to do more, we would have to raise more money, but also much more energy to push these important reforms in the arab countries.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! after our last visit to pristina, i noticed three things. firstly, there is a considerable improvement in the material situation. last but not least, and to my credit, because of the good work of the rehabilitation agency. secondly, there is the united nations, which is doing a good job there, but it is also hampered by some overbureaucratic obstacles. but there is little change in the minds of the political representatives of the various ethnic groups in kosovo. this concerns the serbs, which is clear from the fact that there is little real cooperation from the ministers in the rexhepi government and that there is still a parallel structure for the serbs. it is also true, above all, of the representatives of the albanian majority in kosovo. unfortunately, they are not yet ready - with perhaps a few exceptions, as the commissioner has mentioned - to accept a multiethnic state, not only to accept it verbally but to put it into practice. and, commissioner, if you think we must start negotiations soon, and if mrs pack thinks that we must even negotiate status and standards at the same time, then i would ask: what are we doing in the european union to convince the albanian leadership in kosovo that it really must accept a multiethnic state? the president of the council said we're the biggest donor, we have the most military. why should i convince a european taxpayer that he must continue to raise money for a state whose sole aim, or whose political leadership, is to establish a de facto ethnically unified state in europe? why should we subsidize and support belgrade accordingly if belgrade is not prepared to accept a common multiethnic - let us say - unity or a multiethnic state? i have always been in favour of kosovo moving towards independence. but are the albanian leaders in kosovo doing their part to create the conditions for independence? i think that after all the things you have said, mr commissioner and mr president-in-office, we must draw the necessary conclusions. we must also withdraw our support in the case of the case if we find that it is going the wrong way. we're not gonna help you with nice words. you may hear the fine words, but the leadership doesn't take the consequences. and so i think, with all my support for what you have said, commissioner, which is absolutely correct, that we can now expect the council and the commission - but ultimately above all the council - not only to speak words but to act if the albanian leadership in kosovo and the serbs are not prepared to work on a joint kosovo project. i don't see that yet. i really expect the council and the commission to take action.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i also congratulate you on this important step which is being taken with tomorrow's vote. i would remind you that in the text of the convention for a new constitution for the eu member states of europe we have committed ourselves to implementing a policy designed to ensure sustainable social, economic and environmental development. the environmental liability directive on the prevention of environmental damage and the restoration of the environment is therefore, in my view, a logical consequence of the commitment to the european regulatory model of the eco-social market economy. i therefore expressly welcome the fact that the polluter pays principle is now applicable and that companies or other operators are obliged to prevent environmental damage or to compensate for damage caused to the environment or to pay for the corresponding remedial measures. the evaluation process has already been tailored, as has the agreement that prevention and remediation measures must be carried out in close coordination with the operators. i would like to mention two points: the first is that nuclear liability is not covered by this directive. we cannot understand why environmental damage caused by wind, biomass, biogas and solar power plants should be the responsibility of the respective polluter, but not the responsibility of the nuclear plant operator under this directive. i call on the member states to ensure that normal operations authorized by the authorities and the risk of development are excluded from liability, since it has not yet been possible to establish these two facts explicitly in law. we support the agreement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the summit was marked by the bombings in madrid. that's been said a lot today. it is a positive sign that a counter-terrorism coordinator has been appointed and the solidarity clause from the draft constitution has been preferred. these are signs of the need for european cooperation, which should be noted on the budget side. but hands on heart the realization that police and intelligence agencies need to cooperate, that search results need to be shared across borders, is not new. since 9/11, there has been much talk but little action. europe is moving slowly, robert schuman once said. how true! the lisbon strategy of 2000 has the ambitious goal of making the eu the strongest economic area in the world. success is a long way off. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. is the blockade coming to an end? the hope is not unfounded. the irish presidency has done a good job so far. i am realistic, however, and i see that many chapters in the draft constitution are still controversial: the question of how many commissioners there should be per country, the principle of rotation, the weighting of votes. the fact that the enlarged community must be able to act is beyond question as a declaration of intent. i hope that action follows!
in writing. - (de) on amendment no 1 to the report on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec, euratom) no 2728/94 on the establishment of a guarantee fund for operations in relation to third countries (com (2003) 604), i would like to emphasize that 'new' nuclear power stations also include nuclear power stations which are to be 'completed' (such as cernavoda in romania). i would like to make it clear once again that the concept of 'new' nuclear power stations also covers the 'completion' of an existing nuclear power station.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr baltas, very warmly for his very balanced report. i come from a country which has a great deal of sympathy for croatia, and this is also true of this group. this does not mean that we turn a blind eye when it comes to assessing europe's maturity. i would just like the commission - and i agree with the rapporteur - to see how important it would be for croatia to have a positive opinion. because it would also send a signal to all our neighbours that if they take the steps towards europe, the road to europe is open to them too. there is no country in the balkans, unfortunately, but that's how it is, that has done so much. have the problems been solved? no, they're not solved. i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations with the countries of central and eastern europe. i am very glad that not only are there good relations with neighbouring bosnia and herzegovina, but that the last government, as well as the present one, has already shown that croatia is now interested in a common bosnia and herzegovina and not just in the welfare of the same-speaking ethnic group in bosnia and herzegovina. as regards the situation of war criminals, i believe that croatia has done a great deal in recent years and months to make progress in this area. i think we have to be objective and fair here too. sometimes i feel that some countries that have taken longer to come to terms with their own past and their own crimes and to deal with them, are making higher demands on croatia. but croatia must know that this is a crucial issue and therefore it must show all the willingness to cooperate here. as regards the question of the return of refugees, this has always been a very important subject for us in our discussions with the croatian representatives and here in the european parliament. i think that croatia must step up its efforts to bring all refugees back, including, of course, exchanges with neighbouring countries. in this sense, mr president, i think we should welcome the baltas report. i would also like to ask the commission to adopt a very positive attitude towards croatia.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission is not apart from all the general policy issues which we as the european parliament have to discuss in the matter of turkey, it is of course not unimportant to also deal with the economic feasibility and social compatibility of the european union. the great progress that has been made in legislation, including on labour law, equal treatment, health and other important social provisions, is unfortunately - and i must say this unfortunately - being countered by a completely opposite development in real policy. unfortunately, the increasing unemployment, the rapid increase in poverty - especially in rural areas - the increase in the illegal recruitment of short-term workers in factories to circumvent labour protection laws, the lack of action against child labour and many other things do not bode well. in addition, the labour legislation lacks anti-discrimination rules, which means that it is not possible to take legal action against a violation of human dignity, for example. we can do something about that, but we have a lot of work to do here. these are all questions that cannot be dealt with quickly under time pressure. for these reasons, and in order to pave the way for turkey's accession to the eu, i believe that it is essential from a democratic point of view that this issue be discussed again in the eu-25 and that the eu parliament give its prior consent to the opening of accession negotiations with turkey.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by congratulating mr oostlander on this very good and balanced report. there are some in this house who think that turkey should not be a candidate country. unfortunately, there is no clear and unambiguous proposal for this, because then the majority in this house would be clearly established. i think turkey should remain a candidate country as it is now. it is true that it is not a candidate country like many others, where the process can be relatively easily completed in a relatively few years. turkey is in a special situation. unfortunately, turkey - and i admit this, especially those governments which are clearly committed to a secular state - has done little in recent years to decide on and implement the progress which has been rightly called for today. the last government - the acp government - has nevertheless shown a very clear desire for reform and has taken significant steps towards reform. perhaps there are some in this house who think that turkey should no longer be a candidate precisely because it is an acp government that is making progress. but i think there are very good reasons for maintaining candidate status, and there are very good reasons - reasons for europe - to insist that the reforms not only continue but also be implemented. i am sure that is one of the key problems. i ask the commission, in its report on the council's decision - and it is a council decision, and it should remain a council decision - not only - and i know commissioner verheugen will do so - to assess what has been decided, but also what has been implemented. it would be a very great achievement from my personal point of view if, by the end of this year, visible progress were made in implementing the measures decided by turkey. the role of the military has also been the subject of major developments. the role has clearly been pushed back. if today - as commissioner verheugen has said - there is a positive attitude on the part of the turkish government on the cyprus question, it is because the role of the military has been reduced. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made some progress in this area, but it is still a long way off. this also applies to the kurdish question. i know that this remains a very sensitive issue for turkey. this is of course also true in the context of respect for the borders with neighbouring countries, including neighbouring countries with a kurdish population. however, it must also be assumed that such kurdish regions do not give rise to military or terrorist actions against turkey. i therefore say again that i think we should stick to the line, we should strictly check compliance with the criteria, as we do for all other countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i am very grateful to commissioner verheugen for his efforts. but it must be clear to us that there is a solution for cyprus which is fair to cyprus, but also fair to europe, so that a country joins the european union which is also capable of taking an active part in european decisions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in four weeks' time, the european union will undergo its biggest enlargement to date. this is an event that will change europe for the long term and that the european union must make a success for its people. there is no doubt that this enlarged union will now need time to consolidate. it is hard for citizens to understand that an event of this magnitude has not even been completed and at the same time a process is being set in motion that is accelerating enlargement. it is in these circumstances that the debate on the turkey report must be held. there is hardly anyone in this house who is not aware of turkey's geopolitical importance and who would not welcome turkey's progress towards democracy and human rights. however, there is hardly anyone who can conceal the gap between the legislative prerequisites and the actual implementation of all these issues. it has already been pointed out that turkey is one of the first countries from which asylum is still sought and that a country like austria also grants the most asylum. nevertheless, i think, and my delegation does, that the limitation of the turkey report to the purely political criterion is too narrow. i therefore support with my delegation all the proposals which put this debate on a broader basis. it is not to be seen that the commission will not present a study on the impact of turkey's accession on the european union as part of the forthcoming report in october or as a separate study. the impact on structural policy, the common agricultural policy and the institutions of the european union must be taken into account. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment. we must offer turkey alternatives in time. we owe it to her and to ourselves. i would like to thank mr oostlander for the greatness of his report, for not narrowing the debate and for the sensitivity with which he has remained true to himself. but with this report on turkey we have the opportunity to send an important political signal and to put the debate on a broader basis. it is not possible to be satisfied with the political criterion in its narrowest form. it must also be possible to verify and assess compatibility with the european union. if this does not happen, the voters will never forgive us!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that this is indeed a very significant change or clarification of the position of the americans, and indeed such a position may mean a new divide between the united states of america and europe. so it is important to discuss this issue. if the argument is made that there is little time available, then of course one could also link this to the discussion of transatlantic relations. the middle east problem is one of the main political problems in transatlantic relations. that shouldn't be an excuse. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but this important question would have to be specifically mentioned in the declaration.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. thank you, mr president. i am not going to go into detail. the previous debates on the reports by mrs boogerd-quaak on freedom of the media and the exchange of passenger data have perhaps demonstrated very strongly the importance of preparing for critical developments in good time, the difficulty of actually defending the fundamental values of our union under great pressure and in times of great critical developments, and the importance of developing common principles and procedures. i am therefore pleased that the report on safeguarding and promoting the fundamental values of the european union, which i am presenting to you today, was adopted by an overwhelming majority in committee. it is a sign of solidarity and determination on the part of all the political groups in defending the union's fundamental values and principles, democracy and the rule of law, values which have become the declared objective of international terrorism, values which can also lead to conflicts in the fight against this terrorism, values which are also being called into question by a growing xenophobia, racism and anti-semitism in europe, and by extreme political developments. there is no point in turning a blind eye to it, but i believe that the imperative of the hour is to prepare ourselves for it. i thank the commission for having made a substantial contribution with its communication to the interinstitutional dialogue and to the close cooperation between the institutions, which i consider to be essential in the application of article 7 (1) and (2). if there has been criticism of this commission communication by the rapporteur and the committee, i think we can put forward some proposals today to develop this position. a higher level of protection than that proposed by the commission was considered essential by your rapporteur and the committee, particularly in the distinction between a clear risk under article 7 (1) and a serious infringement. we believe that the charter of fundamental rights must be included. it is not legally binding but is politically binding through the adoption by all the institutions and governments of the member states, and the decisions under article 7 are political discretionary decisions and can therefore only be taken on the basis of and in full respect of the charter of fundamental rights. the committee on budgets, like myself, was a little surprised by the lack of recognition of parliament's special responsibility, which is virtually absent from the commission's communication. parliament has the right of initiative in article 7 (1) and the right of assent in both paragraphs. in other words, it will depend very much on whether the criteria and principles which parliament chooses for this procedure are also accepted by the other institutions. the rapporteur originally proposed in his report an interinstitutional agreement to enshrine these principles and make them binding on the other institutions. i also agree with the committee's decision to open an interinstitutional dialogue here. the report proposes very clear - and i hope also forward-looking - principles which address some of the fears and concerns of colleagues, but also of other committees. the principle of trust means that the constitutional order and the institutions of our member states are called upon, but are also, in our view, able and willing to prevent violations and threats to the fundamental rights and values of the union from their own initiative. this parliament reaffirms and declares that confidence. secondly, the principle of the plurality of opinions on the basis of democracy and the rule of law: we reaffirm the intention of parliament that the application of article 7 must never become an instrument of political opposition. the principle of equality - even if there is a lot of mistrust - is also valid, and it is here to be anchored, i.e. that member states are treated equally regardless of their size, their contribution to the budget, or the length of their membership. the principle of publicity is particularly important to your rapporteur. this procedure will, if it ever comes to pass, which i and none of us wish, cause great tension. we have already seen in the debates at the beginning of this sitting how difficult it will be to carry out such a procedure in a sovereign, prudent and fair manner in an emergency. i believe that in the event of such a procedure parliament will need a great deal of credibility in the population and that therefore the need of the hour is not, as the commission proposes, a discreet procedure, but the absolute publicity of all procedures, all the more so as they can also lead to sanctions. i am also at the end of my speech, mr president. parliament believes that the sanctions issue must be dealt with very carefully, that there must be no speculation about it, so that nowhere, outside or inside the union, can there be the slightest doubt that this union is determined to use all its resources to defend fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to make a few brief remarks on the principle of publicity, which mr voggenhuber himself has already stressed. i am very much aware of the arbitrary measures taken against my home country, austria, in the context of the subject we are discussing here. the austrian socialists, who have now for some time been calling themselves social democrats, were then fully involved in the scheming. i also remember very clearly a phone call from the then socialist chancellor viktor klima, who was fully involved and asked me to keep everything under wraps. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why these processes, which are comprehensible and publicly available, are so extremely important.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. my point is the wuermeling report, the consumer credit directive. i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for the excellent work and the good cooperation between the committees. he had a hard job to do because the commission's draft - that is a noble expression - was bad. the commission proposal is based on incorrect assumptions. it is playing the interests of consumers against those of the banks, and in some cases it is inciting one against the other, and this despite the fact that europe needs more cooperation rather than blaming each other, more seriousness rather than populist superficiality. we are saying a clear yes to consumer protection, a yes to greater transparency, a yes to mutual information, a yes to minimum and maximum limits for the applicability of the directive. we are saying a clear no to more bureaucratization of consumer credit, a no to the increase in the cost of consumer credit and a no to the inclusion of overdraft loans in this directive. i hope that the draft which parliament has drawn up on the basis of the rapporteur's proposals will reflect the real aims of this directive, namely to achieve more consumer protection with less bureaucracy, more transparency and more trust and mutual consideration, and thus to strengthen consumer interests and crossborder activity in borrowing. i would ask you all to support the amendments tabled by parliament and the rapporteur, because that is the only way we can strengthen cooperation and not confrontation.
i have to say, madam president, there are two things to consider when it comes to natural gas: one is availability, and the other is price. i think it is right that we should now refer to article 100, even though mr blokland is right that it must be interpreted very broadly. there is always a temptation when we talk about security of supply to think that we can actually introduce indirect price regulation. i think that's going to fail on a large scale because it's not going to work and it's also going to be too short-term. but basically, you also have to remember that gas is dependent on price, which is tied to oil price, and that we may have some pretty big illusions about availability. the best way of ensuring security of supply is certainly self-sufficiency, and it is therefore welcome that steps are being taken to: a) produce high-quality gas within the european union itself and b) include this gas in the own available networks.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to convey my warmest congratulations and my thanks to the rapporteur. it has taken on a very difficult and very complex dossier in a relatively short time. the coordination in the european parliament has not suffered at all. we have heard a great many good arguments this evening about the importance of adopting this directive quickly for our environment and for creating incentives for industry. i therefore share the disappointment of my colleagues that no agreement was reached with the council at first reading. i understand that this is of course a very difficult dossier for the member states as well, but we in the european parliament have shown that we started from very different starting points and then came together on very important issues. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it is quite clear from the title of this directive that environmental protection is one of the priority objectives of this directive. i am therefore not satisfied that we are referring to the single market article, article 95, as the sole legal basis. it is also not in the interests of a good environmental and energy policy to put the member states which are more advanced in one or other of these areas on a leash and to put them in chains. i know that the debate between those present has already been concluded, but i would like to emphasize once again in this debate that it is very important for me and my group to have two legal bases here in order to enable better environmental and energy policies in the member states.
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in my country, austria, the prevailing view at the time of the transit debate was that the european parliament was to blame for the failure of the reasonable succession arrangement. i do not think that was the case, but the debate on this is essentially futile. the point at issue here and today is what we in austria have always called for, namely a signal for a new pan-european transport policy, where, in addition to the classic objectives of this policy, namely transport efficiency, cost-effectiveness and road safety, the needs of others are also taken into account, in particular the needs of the people who live and have to live along european transport routes, and the needs of the environment and the objectives of sustainability. in this debate, which we are going to conclude here today with a first reading result, the rapporteur, mr luigi cocilovo, has achieved a great deal in excellent cooperation with many in this house. we have to thank the rapporteur for this cooperation and we have to thank him for the fact that we have achieved and implemented a good part of the process which will ultimately lead to the conclusion of this procedure. we have written about the principle of cost-effectiveness as a general principle of european transport policy. in particular, we have also achieved the integration of so-called external costs. we have addressed the special need for protection of sensitive areas, but not only sensitive areas, but also sensitive times - night traffic, as the term implies. we have ensured, most importantly, that the toll revenue also goes and has an impact where we need it most, namely in a dedicated transport sector and in the possibility of cross-financing between individual modes of transport. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will also have to ensure in particular that the council is involved in our discussion and that we have a reasonable overall result in the foreseeable future.
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr cocilovo, for his efforts and commitment and also for his willingness to compromise on many points. the fact that i am not satisfied may help him in his dealings with mr jarzembowski, who is in the middle of the various opinions in this house. i would like to take up two points which have already been discussed today. one is the toll and the fear that some may be overcharged. i think that each country, each region will always have to consider whether the toll will not lead to a deterioration in competition, and therefore a limit will automatically be set up here. moreover, even if i look at the relatively high tolls, such as those charged for the burner, they have not deterred thousands and thousands of lorries from continuing to drive over the burner, i.e. even there the toll was not so high that it was prohibitive, because we have had an increasing truck traffic over the years. the second problem which has not been sufficiently resolved is that of external costs. i acknowledge that the rapporteur has made proposals here, which have also been accepted by the majority of the committee, concerning the possibility of charging external costs, i.e. environmental costs. however, this depends on the commission making proposals. the commission has not put forward any proposals. i have been a member of this parliament for two terms and there has been a lot of discussion about this, but there have never been any concrete proposals for calculation methods. that is why the motions tabled by my group, including my own signature, are to say, firstly, that the commission should make very specific proposals within two years on calculation methods, and secondly, that, as long as this is not the case, national, verifiable - that is, not arbitrary - calculation methods could be used. i would like to see a consensus today, at least on the first point, which is the call for proposals to be submitted to the commission within two years. it would take us a long way in the process of forming opinions and in the subsequent negotiations with the council. i would like to thank the rapporteur very much. it is a good solution, but it is not yet a satisfactory one.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in 1999 and 2001, we had three major fire disasters in the montblanc tunnel, the tauern tunnel and the gotthard tunnel. these events made it clear to us that we have a serious safety deficit on the main lines of the transeuropean network, particularly in the area of tunnels. the european parliament then very quickly asked the commission to carry out appropriate studies on this subject and then to submit a text with which we want and can ensure, by means of european law, that we can achieve greater safety for the users of european roads - particularly in tunnels. the commission has tackled this subject in a very grateful way, and it has understood it, especially in the last two and a half years, in a very difficult process of dialogue with parliament on the one hand and the council on the other, which you have helped to bring about in record time a very good joint text which we can now approve at second reading and therefore before the end of this parliamentary term. we can then expect that there will soon be a higher, better level of safety on europe's roads and in europe's tunnels than we have had in the past. i should like to mention one of the many aspects which have been incorporated into this directive and into this legal text, and which has been of particular concern to parliament, but not only to parliament, namely the fact that we are also dealing with the problems of the disabled in a very special way. last year was the european year of the disabled. we were right to point out at the time that it was not enough to have a year in which you often put the word 'disabled' in your mouth and then do nothing. we have also made a very specific effort to take the question of tunnel safety seriously in this context. i am particularly pleased, as rapporteur for this report, that we have succeeded in including in the discussions and negotiations, in this admittedly difficult text, two countries which are not original member states of the european union - i say, unfortunately, not yet original member states of the european union - but which are of course also of particular importance for questions of safety on the european road network. this is switzerland on one side and norway on the other. these two countries have been very much involved in the discussions, particularly at council level, but also in discussions with the rapporteur of the parliament, and we can therefore expect that a uniform pan-european level of tunnel safety will be achieved in these countries as well. similarly, and this is the last point i would like to make, we can assume that in the future member states of the european union, which will become full members of the union on 1 may 2004, this legal text, which for the new members is an acquis still in the pipeline, will have provided the basis for these parts of the pan-european road network to offer as soon as possible the level of safety that road builders, road keepers and road inspectors, as we rightly believe, must guarantee. i should like to conclude by expressing my sincere thanks to all those who have actively contributed to the drafting of this text, in particular the commissioner, who has been very active on this subject, but also to the commission as a whole and its staff, and to the council and its staff, to parliament and our groups in this house and the staff. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european road safety directive is implemented in a uniform manner, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so in the near future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to make this very short. i think that mr rack's work deserves your approval. it has done a very good job and above all it has struck a balance between the cost of safety measures and the very important safety measures to be taken in the tunnels in the next few years. i would also like to make a brief personal remark to the vice-president and to respond to her personal remark. madam vice-president, there has been a lot of hard work and discussion over many years, often very hard, but also very fair. they don't always make it easy. you are not a person who is soft and willing to compromise, but you are a person with whom it pays to argue and find a compromise. i would like to say that i agree with you completely: in recent years we have taken many important decisions in the field of transport policy, in which you and your staff have a very important part to play. thank you very much. i assume that you will remain on the commission for the time being and remain politically active, and perhaps we will have some time to argue with each other. i'm sure it's a pleasure to argue with you when it comes to the matter. thank you for your cooperation. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to stress that not only i, but also my colleagues from the austrian people's party in the epp group, have in the end rejected the de roo report. we have difficulties with the nuclear point in amendment no 38. the text is simply too vague for us and it allows - and i am a little surprised that alexander de roo does not see it that way - that certificates from nuclear projects generated before 2012 can be used after 2012, since banking of certificates is allowed. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. we are all in favour of a total ban on nuclear projects, and so we were ultimately unable to accept the de roo report.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on agriculture and rural development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank the rapporteur very much, because i think he has summed up the commission's proposal very well, which is very realistic. the biggest enlargement of the european union to date is just around the corner, and we have ten new member states in two weeks. an efficient cohesion policy is therefore essential for economic and social cohesion. the european union's structural funds make a significant contribution to rural development. the common agricultural policy alone is not capable of fulfilling all these tasks, nor is the second pillar. it is therefore necessary that we also have the necessary resources. we really need to ensure that the rural development programme is clearly positioned and that this instrument is linked to the cap and thus to active, productive agriculture. the rural areas also account for the majority of the land area in the enlarged union. i believe that only an active and attractive rural area is capable of creating new jobs, production and income opportunities.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. – mr president, our main goal should be to be successful for our small and medium-sized enterprises.
i cannot imagine that you would feel very comfortable answering my question. because if i have understood you correctly over the last few years, you would probably have wanted more dynamism and a more professional preparation and implementation of the sme study on this issue as well. they comforted me. because i hear the results of the study are in. then why don't we have it? i understand that the study has produced a result that requires changes in the third part of your proposal. what are these changes? they say we'll get the study in time. but today is the last official sitting of parliament. i think that there has been a lapse in this respect and i ask you to make the current state of knowledge and the results of the study available to the market, the council and parliament as soon as possible. i am also not aware of any invitation to speak to the commission from the members concerned.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would also like to thank mr karas, because of course the basel ii agenda is very important to us and the pricewaterhousecoopers study is an important basis for what we can still change about the basel ii regulations. but it is particularly important for us in parliament to know what the impact of the introduction of basel ii will be, especially on our small and mediumsized enterprises, and what homework the finance ministers and others still have to do to ensure a successful introduction of basel ii. i think that the commission should use a kind of best practice and benchmark impact analysis to show what the finance ministers can do to ensure a successful introduction of basel ii.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. the commission is not the continued precarious security situation in kosovo has prompted the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy to pay particular attention to weaknesses in the behaviour of the european agency for reconstruction in kosovo, as identified by the european court of auditors. this includes the amount of cash reserves, the need to avoid payments to unauthorised persons, and better coordination between the agency's accounting officer and the commission's directorate responsible. some of the concerns were addressed by the agency's comments. the foreign affairs committee is also aware of the difficult circumstances in which this agency is carrying out its work. but let me conclude by saying that the cost of eu aid must be balanced against the political benefits. the discharge report provides an opportunity to point this out. we give the agency a discharge for 2002 and expect that the extension of the agency's powers to the management of eu aid in serbia, montenegro and macedonia will lead to a lasting increase in efficiency and thus contribute to the political stabilisation of the area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. if we are at the end of an election period, we should also be doing a little bit of self-deprecating. if we are to bring a motion of censure against a commission on the last day of our term of office, so to speak, when the most important man is no longer present, namely mr solbes mira, the member responsible for eurostat, then, ladies and gentlemen, we are in danger of making a fool of ourselves. if there is one merit of our outgoing chairman, it is that he has tried to make this small budgetary control committee a serious committee. that's why i'm warning you not to do any more stupid things like that. secondly, commissioner, we should be a little more careful about self-immolation. if i look at what has been done by the commission throughout eurostat's history - colleagues have already addressed this - it has been a very modest result. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is something we can also say as a departing parliament: we expect a future commission to take a different approach here. i hope that in the future we will see this in a different form. that is our responsibility and that of the commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. terrorism - that is a fact - is the scourge of the present. we will only succeed if we develop common strategies in the european union and with partners like the united states. and we will only succeed if we implement all these strategies effectively. this means that we can expect the measures we decide to take to become reality. the terrorists are not afraid of these discussions we are having here. they are not afraid of regulations and directives, but only of effective measures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information is not lost. of course, there are certain safeguards that must be taken when personal data is shared. of course, the data protection rules of the european union must be respected. but we also have to accept that relevant data is being shared to protect against terrorism. we, the european people's party, are therefore in favour of concluding the agreement with the united states on the basis of the points negotiated with the commission, because we are thereby achieving that the state of non-agreement is finally brought to an end, the way is cleared for the exchange of data, but also, and above all, for further improvements and further negotiations. we therefore oppose the boogerd-quaak report, which is based on ideological overreach and which rejects the agreement, thereby preventing a legal basis and making cooperation against terrorism impossible. the citizens for whom we stand and by whom we were elected do not expect us to debate endlessly, but they expect us to act together with those who have preserved reason. the fight against terrorism must be a priority.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak. i have been called on several times in the past few weeks and i have only now been given the opportunity to say something to the house. (laughter) it is true, mr president, that i have given you the relevant documents at your written request. you yourself say there's no evidence that any members have broken the rules. i myself have always said in all the statements i have made - and this is very important - that i have evidence in more than 7200 cases that i believe colleagues in this house have been unscrupulous in collecting the daily allowance. to what extent this is a breach of the rules i leave to you and others to judge. however, mr president, in this letter to you, i have asked you in great detail to tell me, or at least to clarify, under what rule such behaviour is covered. i remember you from personal conversations before you took office. you had my vote and support at the time, as someone who was very much in favour of reforms, who had given me the benefit of the doubt in many of the specific cases - we had discussed this at the time - and in the many points, such as the campaign for parliamentary reform, which you were very close to, and which has also been the subject of repeated debate. i strongly deny, mr. president, that there is zero evidence for what i've given you, and i also deny that i would campaign. (protests from the left) i hope the public hears that reaction too. i ask you to take that into account in the time i have to speak, by giving me a few extra seconds. i reject a campaign! it is the european transparency initiative, and to present me with zero evidence and at the same time the methods in this form is a contradiction. lawyers, colleagues, citizens, voters, they all told me you'd have to prove everything accurately. that is why we filmed, and i did nothing else, mr president, than the president of the european union summit in denmark in 2002, who did it himself, to make it clear how the inner workings of the eu summit work. this has been sent, this has been discussed. i think the reformers and the critics must not be silenced, and we will continue to work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would simply ask you to check whether we cannot start voting early tomorrow because i think it is unfair that all the other votes cannot then work. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i think that we should start voting earlier, at 11 a.m.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to comment on the exchange of views that has just taken place. i'm here, i just had to leave for a moment because a statement was released on behalf of the president accusing me of things that simply don't match the facts. i've seen you go out there, too, mr ferber. i have always been involved in this reform process and unfortunately the reaction now shows how much you are closing yourself off, how much the internal criticism that has been put forward - including my amendments in the committees - is not taken into account. i feel sorry for the voters and taxpayers in europe.
in writing. - (de) on behalf of the members of the austrian freedom party, i should like to explain our voting practice in relation to the van hulten report. we voted for amendment no 40 because we are advocating a new presidency decision which leaves no door open to additional mileage and time allowances. we therefore support the revision of the bureau decision of 8 may 2003 so that only actual costs are reimbursed. we voted against amendment no 1 tabled by the group for a europe of democracies and diversities because we believe that it could be interpreted as preserving the expenditure decision of 28 may 2003 with its one-off appropriations. nevertheless, we voted against the report in the final vote because it fails to deal with issues such as the requirement for a meeting place for parliament or the abolition of the allowance for fridays in strasbourg. after considering all the arguments, i would stress that we fully agree with the decision to reimburse only the actual travel costs, but at the same time i would regret that so many of the other amendments were not taken into account.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! if we review the last debate and compare it with the present situation, we must regrettably - and i regret this - say that the gap in relations between the united states of america and europe has not at least narrowed. we have all been expecting and hoping that in time there will be a positive development here. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote. in all three areas, if you look at it not only with optimistic eyes but also with realistic eyes, there are big differences. as regards the strengthening of the united nations, i do not see a major shift in the emphasis of united states policy. if the united nations is to be involved in iraq, if it is to be involved more strongly, then it must be done with great caution, because it must really be the united nations. the united nations must not act as a sort of extension of the occupying power, or else the united nations will be dragged into the same vortex of violence and counter-violence as the united states of america. in the middle east, there is nothing left of the much-heralded initiative of the new middle east. i would like to see us, together with the united states of america, really go into the depths and develop a comprehensive strategy for the middle east. this cannot be limited to israel and palestine. i believe that there are still serious differences in the fight against terrorism. i was delighted to hear commissioner patten speak today, as i always do. i agree with many of his arguments, although i did not vote in the way he intended, but he is right on many points. we must be very careful here and we may have to go to the limits of what is legally possible sometimes to have a real defense against terrorism, but the essential thing is to combat the causes of terrorism, and there are still great differences in the behaviour of the united states of america and europe.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! i have great respect for the commitment of mr cushnahan and there are also a number of people in my group who agree with his arguments. i have a lot of sympathy for that, but i think that those of us who may have a different view here are not in the same boat as the council or the commission or the united states or the united kingdom. it's rare that they're all on the same line. it is indeed as the commissioner and the president of the council have said. it's not a choice between black and white, it's a choice between different shades of gray. in fact, pakistan is and should be an important partner in the development of the entire region. i can already see that there has been some progress in pakistan's attitude in recent months, with regard to afghanistan, the situation with the taliban, but also with regard to kashmir and democracy and human rights. but i give mr cushnahan and all those who say that this is far too little, much more needs to be done to bring pakistan out of this isolation and towards more democracy and human rights. and i also give credit to all those who say that such an agreement must be the basis for having an intensive dialogue with these countries - in this case pakistan - and for pushing them forward. mr cushnahan, i do not understand why we cannot perhaps also - and this has been discussed recently with israel - urge that such an agreement be suspended if the commitments made are not respected. i am therefore of the opinion that, after weighing the pros and cons - and there are many cons - i am quite right in my view that there is a pro in approving this agreement with the resolution, which has been very well presented by mr brok and which also bears your name. i am the first to say, also on behalf of my group, that we should suspend this agreement if the progress which has been made is not continued and completed. i think that the arguments put forward here are sound, and my group will recommend that we agree. i respect those who have a different view and who vote differently here for reasons of conscience, because the human rights situation is still unsatisfactory and needs to be radically improved.
the commission has already done so. thanks to melina mercouri, who created this capital of culture, because being a european capital of culture is a challenge, a reflection of contemporary art, which generates discussion and allows for positioning, raises awareness of the value of cultural heritage and leaves visible signs, such as the art house of the last capital of culture graz in 2003, which generates a lot of discussion, but it is also very important that we find such signs in modern architecture. the decision taken in 1999 - and i agree with my colleagues and the previous speakers - was simply wrong. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has not only made the mistake of not taking account of the future new member states, but has also ignored the future parliaments. competition is necessary, it requires rules to give the expert jury its field of action and to give it a clear mandate, which unfortunately has not been the case so far. if this is not the case, the european capital of culture will lose its value. it is also a hallmark of cultural diversity and cultural quality. if we have two cultural capitals in the future, it certainly cannot mean that when we create the financial basis we divide the existing grants in half, but it certainly must mean that we double them. because otherwise it doesn't make any sense. i would therefore urge that the financial basis be provided, because two cultural capitals need - if they want to deliver a good programme - a lot of support, regardless of the enormous effort and the own contribution they have to make.
the commission has already done so. with the launch of the new generation of programmes in the field of education and training from 2007 and the intensive participation of the new member states in these programmes, it will become all the more important to confirm the experience gained abroad, the skills, competences and qualifications acquired there in a uniform passport. i think it will be very important that we can offer what is decided here tomorrow and that we accompany this with a publicity campaign which is absolutely necessary. the application, meaning and added value must be clearly understood by each user and each filler. if the aim of the new generation of programmes is to reach 150 000 placements per year under the leonardo programme, then it is essential that the placements providers also know about europass. as this document is a formal recognition of professional qualifications, i ask you now to keep the administrative burden to a minimum, because this is one of the biggest obstacles for all young people. for me, europass is very important in that it is not only an opportunity for formal qualifications but also for informal skills. i would like to stress the importance of intercultural competence, because in the future, as globalization increases, as different civilizations and cultures grow together and meet, it will be necessary to have and develop intercultural skills. the mobility passport, which covers all learning-related and transnational knowledge abroad, should also document these experiences. mobility is needed both in the learning process and in working life. in order to give young people an overview of this jungle of support and exchange programmes, the relevant agencies should, together with the commission, draw up a guide to mobility. exchange and support programmes, contact points and links should be provided to make europe's added value visible to all.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs on behalf of the socialist group for their work. some of them found it easy from the start because their thoughts were similar, they were running in parallel, others found it a little more difficult, but if you are used to talking to each other, especially from different points of view, and if you are willing to compromise, then you will find a good compromise. why do i, as a social democrat, think this is a good compromise? because i keep telling my friends that the railways have lost market share in the last few years and decades, when there was no liberalization or market opening. it was not the liberalisation, it was the lockdown. on the one hand, there is the truck, which runs more or less without borders throughout europe. the driver does not have to change at the border, the cab does not change at the border, there may be different regulations in detail regarding the traffic signs, but this is relatively easy to understand. on the other hand, unfortunately, there are still national railways which are separated from each other, which means obstacles and which of course also makes the railways inflexible. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the services provided by the railways. i come from a country which is currently suffering from a corresponding burden of heavy goods transport, and i can only hope that there is an efficient, market-oriented, but also environmentally friendly means of transport, and that is certainly the railway for me. mr jarzembowski was right when he said that the railways must now do something about it. i have always criticised the fact that the railways have taken a long time to think internationally and europeanally. but i believe that today the railways, but also the workers' representatives, the trade unions - not least because of the work of this house - are european-oriented. there are probably few unions today that are as european-oriented as the railway workers, because they know that the future depends on their being part of the european fabric. i believe that they are also responsible for development to a large extent. the time when there were still heaters on the english locomotives, although there was nothing to heat them with, thank god, is over, and it is the workers' representatives who are now working very constructively, as we see with the train drivers, to give the railways a kind of renaissance on a european scale and also to give them the opportunity to compete with the road. of course there is still work to be done! we have just voted on the cocilovo report this week. it's not optimal, but it's made some progress. mr jarzembowski does not always see this as progress, but the good thing is that he sometimes has to make compromises, even a north german hamburg has to be able to make compromises. i hope that we will find a good solution to the question of the allocation of external costs. because i think any reasonable person, any reasonable transport expert will say we need both, we need the rail and the road. it's just a matter of finding the right balance. in this sense, i think a good compromise has been reached. we'll see what we can do about the passenger traffic. i agree with mrs ainardi that we need to review the steps that have been taken. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that is the case now on a larger scale. i would like to thank the rapporteurs once again for their work. i would also like to thank you, mrs cederschiöld, for the way you have managed this in the conciliation committee in a very focused and prudent manner. the council and the commission have thus been able to reach a satisfactory agreement. i think it is a major milestone in the development of the european railway system.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am glad that the three institutions - the parliament, the council and the commission - have shown how quickly and efficiently european legislation can work on important issues where we are united. the proposal was submitted in december 2003. in january, three committees and a rapporteur were appointed by the european parliament. on 21 april - today - we agreed in the trilogue that we agree on this legislative proposal, which means that only four months have passed between the first proposal and the entry into force of this important decision for small and medium-sized enterprises. we simply want this programme to make it possible to invest in new technologies and, above all, in training. i am particularly pleased that commissioner viviane reding is here, because we believe that training is a very important foundation for the success of a business and that it ultimately improves the creditworthiness of a business and the collateral needed to borrow. our aim is quite simply to safeguard existing jobs and establishments and to create new ones. i think this programme will achieve that goal quite efficiently. we are committed to promoting cooperation, especially between enterprises, especially the smallest ones, and ultimately also between enterprises and with the organisations that support them. we also believe that the european commission should report to us on progress, first and foremost on the financial impact, but we are also interested in the benchmarks that are being set and the best practice, how these programmes are actually adopted in practice, how they are implemented, how we can learn from the different national applications in order to make the best possible and 100% use of these programmes, so that no administrative effort is included in this area, but that the money made available is passed directly through the european investment bank to the companies at 100%. we know that we have not achieved the objectives of one of the three programmes, namely jev. i would like to thank the commission very much for having the courage to officially admit that it has said that there is a programme which is not being exploited. we are also aware that the basel ii issue, the issue of guarantees, equity loans and risk capital, will be much more important in the future. i would therefore like to call on this house today - and we are expected to decide this in the plenary tomorrow - to take basel ii seriously. we note that although a study has now been prepared and has already been agreed internally by the experts responsible, we do not seem to be satisfied with the results. we also want an impact study which shows quite simply what problems we are likely to have with the basel ii legislation, and we want an impact study from the commission today, and the council has already insisted that we get it. we want to know what our finance ministers, what our national governments want to do or need to do in preparation for the introduction of basel ii, what ideas the various governments are developing here, and above all, a programme of business reengineering must be drawn up. we cannot go through basel ii at a cost of billions of euros. we want the opposite. we want a rationalization project here. the cost to firms, to banks, must be reduced dramatically, and this is where the financial supervisory authority, the finance ministries and the commission are all called in. we in parliament will do everything we can to make basel ii a success. we want the stability pact we have accepted for our europe to be forged for our small businesses too. then they too will go to a secure future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to note for the record that mr hans-peter martin, who is always upset that people sign and are not present, is conspicuously absent today, including this evening's sitting.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are deeply disappointed by the decision regarding leyla zana. i also do not agree with all of leyla zana's views. if i have a recent letter here, which she also sent to javier solana and romano prodi, among others, then her assessment of öcalan and the pkk's successor organisations is perhaps a little naive or a little exaggerated or understated - depending on how you want to put it. but all these are - as has already been said - no reasons to imprison someone for many years and to uphold the sentence despite the decisions of european courts. i think it shows - and i agree with the commissioner - that there is still a big gap between the decisions on reforms that have been taken in parliament and their implementation. this is not a criticism of the government, because in my view the government has expressed an interest, as far as possible, in leyla zana's decision being changed. but we must also give the government the mandate or the request, the urgent request, to really put its full strength into the implementation of reforms, especially in the judicial sector. i see a big problem when the government proposes positive things, when parliament decides positive things, but there are no appropriate democratic practices for enforcement in the administration or the court of justice. the fact that this government and turkey as a whole will be blamed for the decisions taken in december is that there is not enough implementation and not enough strength to bring the administration and the judiciary up to a modern european level.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i believe that we need a much more intensive debate, a public debate on the economic and employment policy objectives and the necessary reform measures than we have so far in the member states and at european level. in the field of employment and economic policy, we should take as an example the debate on the stability and growth pact, which is much more widely debated in the public sphere than the guidelines for economic and employment policy. i would also like to call for a strengthening of the commission in economic and employment policy, and i would ask the commission to make greater use of its right of initiative and not to hide behind the unanimity of the council. thirdly, i would like unanimity to be achieved on all the issues relevant to the internal market, as regards employment and economic policy, and thus the european parliament's co-decision becomes possible and a new dynamic is created. i would also like to point out that in the new constitution we have a whole catalogue of economic and employment policy principles. i say this especially to the left wing of this house. we are committed to the social market economy and we do not play social policy against the market. we are committed to sustainability and we are committed to full employment and we are not playing off the different sectors against each other because they are mutually dependent and complementary. the qualification of employers and workers, and the stability of the currency and the associated low inflation, are the prerequisites for competitive enterprises. and competitive enterprises are the prerequisite for growth, and growth is the prerequisite for employment, and employment is the prerequisite for social cohesion. if we make this clear to the population and if we commit ourselves to these basic principles and to this interaction, we can implement the guidelines more efficiently. because we have to get down to business with more seriousness and determination. it cannot and must not be that single market directives are not implemented. it cannot and must not be that the commission has more than a thousand infringement procedures against member states. it cannot and must not be that member states violate the stability and growth pact on the grounds that they want to do something about growth and employment. if that were the case, germany would have to have the highest employment rate. but it has the highest unemployment rate. ladies and gentlemen, i come to the end. what are our weaknesses? our weakness is the structure, the lack of pace, the rigidity and over-regulation, the demographic development. what are our chances? our opportunities lie in enlargement, the concept of the single market, the structure of the small and mediumsized economy, the qualifications of our staff, the lisbon strategy, the euro and social dialogue. let us turn these objectives into action plans and timetables. let us work more seriously and more resolutely to eliminate the weaknesses and to exploit the many opportunities that lie buried and yet to be discovered.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank and congratulate all the french members of this house on the fact that the french government has expelled the imam of venissieux from france for his anti-women remarks. for a politician like me, who has been campaigning for women's rights for decades, it is a great comfort to know that in this european union, the call for the disregard of human rights and women's rights are human rights will not be possible. i would like to sing the marseillaise now, but perhaps it will suffice to say: vive la france!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, i would like to thank the european commission and the council for the adoption of this document at first reading within four months of its submission and i would also like to welcome the delegation from the austrian national council and the austrian federal council to the visitors' gallery.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking mr cushnahan for his great commitment, even though we did not agree. it was really a great job and achievement that he did. i would like to put an oral amendment to amendment no 6. many of us would agree with this if it were accompanied by an addendum, namely: 'unless the united nations takes political responsibility'. because a unilateral withdrawal of troops from iraq at this time, without the united nations taking responsibility, is certainly very problematic and could lead the country into chaos. if there was a consensus, we could also agree to the majority. that is my question to the applicants.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i think it is also appropriate to thank the manufacturers of sports goods for providing employment, wages and taxes in the least developed countries. there is no doubt that there is room for improvement. i think we should focus on rewarding, publicly promoting those who are following the ilo rules. we should put them in front of the curtain and reward those who meet the standards. we should show them how best practices work in the least developed countries too, and these incentive systems would, i believe, be the best contribution to promoting economic activity in these countries. we attach importance to the recognition and integration of small and medium-sized enterprises and, above all, family businesses as suppliers, and to the promotion of the climate of small and family businesses internationally and globally through objective and sound tenders.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a favor to ask. i would ask you to check whether, as mr ferber noted during the vote on the van hulten report and as noted in the minutes, a member was not present in the chamber and that was ultimately confirmed by him. is he entitled to ask for a correction of the voting behaviour, which did not take place in the chamber, as is currently recorded in the minutes?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was personally addressed and i am glad that i was given the opportunity to respond and that not only others here can get rid of their statements. i just want to make it clear that it's not like certain media outlets work for me. i also want to make it clear that i did not work with a buttonhole camera, and i would like to make it clear that i am very sorry for the european taxpayers and voters that in this house it is still not understood that the rules are the problem and that a self-service mentality has taken hold here, which simply shows that only public pressure can lead to the realization that this finally needs to be reformed, as i and some of my colleagues are striving for.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i firmly reject the accusation that i have encouraged any form of falsification of the minutes. i have exercised my rights as a member of parliament. no more and no less! (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i reject all these allegations and all these very crude claims. i repeat: i said this at the time of the vote - i was asked to do so at the end of the vote - that i had exercised my rights as a member of parliament. the form in which this is to be taken into account in the minutes is left to the discretion of the parliament's administration. i have already explained here in the house what the specific circumstances were. as regards the case of mrs gebhardt, i would like to state once again for the record that i have not received a summons or any direct communication from this court and, as far as i know from the press, i can only say that i have never made the allegations. i have no difficulty in not repeating it, because i know the circumstances of mrs gebhardt's life and have never said so. this is part of a reaction which may be understandable from a parliamentary point of view but which will certainly be appreciated by the public.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. mr president, you should interrupt me and ask me why i am talking nonsense. this is a 20 year old phrase, and it was used by spinelli in his speech to this house in the introduction of his draft. i confess i'm appalled at the timeliness of this speech. he compares the two methods as if he were speaking about the convention, a parliamentary constituent assembly of diplomats and ministers of an intergovernmental conference. he says we now know the results of these two different approaches. the national perspective has undeniably prevailed in the course of the negotiations, the european perspective has gradually faded, and in the end it is practically proposed to increase intergovernmental action at the expense of supranational action. mr president, you see that i am sharing speaking time with mr spinelli. it is not possible to say better what has happened in the last few months, in ecofin, in brussels, in naples: the old struggle for a european democracy against the europe of the chancellors, the bureaucracies, the governments and their absolute claim to power. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. it has been very exciting for me too to follow a debate in this speech. it is trying to persuade this house not to send this draft to the council or the intergovernmental conference but to the national parliaments for ratification. it was also a few months before the elections, and it was february, as in the crucial situation in this constitutional process, and i regret that parliament did not find the strength to adopt this draft convention and to submit it to the national parliaments for ratification. it expresses its shame and its hesitation to enter a parliament which in future will not have the strength to act with all its determination as the constituent body of europe. he also says a key sentence on the question of the unanimity of the constitution: "if we were to doubt the possibility of starting even if not all had joined, we would not be putting the decision on the success of the enterprise in the hands of those who are most determined, but those who hesitate the most - indeed even of possible opponents - and thus condemning the whole enterprise to a failure that is almost certain". it is a question of the european parliament, which is the only institution in the world that has the power to decide on the future of the european union. i would like to conclude with a word from jean monnet, which i would like to add to the register of all governments and ministers, the most relevant word that can be said in the constitutional process today: 'we are not coordinating states, we are uniting people!' (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a constitution is something like a blueprint for the organization of a society. we need it badly. the text in question is unfortunately a fraud in etiquette. we have no separation of powers. we have no direct citizen participation. we have not taken account of important elements, as my predecessor quite rightly pointed out. but we need a constitution. we urgently need a constitution, because it must be clear that the west must become ripe for the east, which has already entered the country. we are in a very difficult situation, a bit like a builder who has a very beautiful concept. we have the peace project europe, social, liberal, but we do not have the foundations that it can really work stably. as a european, as someone who is responsible to the taxpayer, you have to be very concerned about the future of this project. we are now forced to rebuild the european union from the ground up, with a real constitution, and then to put it to a referendum in each individual country so that the necessary acceptance is given. it will also need transparency, because there is no democracy without transparency. the way this constitution was put forward and is now being negotiated in secret cannot go well.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i'm of the opposite opinion. as you know, the data of air passengers is currently being shared in the interests of preventing and combating terrorism. but everything happens without a legal basis, so it's illegal. the european union must therefore be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the conditions for its implementation are met. as you know, the commission has negotiated, not least at the insistence of the european parliament, and the result of the negotiations is in sight. many of the points we have asked for have been incorporated in this draft treaty. it can be worked on further, but it is a treaty basis which will allow us to transfer data from the european union to the united states in the future on a legal basis for the purpose of combating terrorism. that must be our goal. we can work on a contract. we will continue to monitor the treaty and then we can still bring a case to the ecj if a treaty is breached. but the aim must be to establish now, and as quickly as possible, a treaty, a legal basis, on the basis of which we can work sensibly in the interests of the security of our citizens and the fight against terrorism. that is why i am in favour of putting urgency on the agenda.
i have to say, madam president, the european union is entering a new phase in its history. the biggest expansion in 47 years is complete. the eu is swelling to half a billion people, one of the largest single markets in the world is emerging. this is a source of hope, especially for young people who have only heard of the second world war and the subsequent cold war. they are so used to peace that the peaceful significance of this enlargement is no longer a priority for them. this is perhaps the most important aspect of enlargement - yes, we can say it - and the reunification of europe on 1 may. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in a europe still struggling to establish its constitution, it is important to work together on the basis of interests and to think in regional spaces. only together can we meet the challenges facing the enlarged union. only together will we be able to solve the problem of illegal immigration and to prevail in the fight against organised crime. the investment in securing the eu's new external borders is as important as the funds we spend on the dismantling of dangerous nuclear power stations. the european union now needs time to make enlargement a success. the next phase with romania, bulgaria and - very welcome - croatia is a logical step. as regards turkey, it is time to call on the council to commission a study on the commission, as a supplement to the expected commission report on the political criterion, an impact study on the structural and agricultural policies and the institutions of the eu.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the commission and of this house! may day was certainly a day - as one german editorial said - when we stepped out of the long shadow of hitler and stalin. but now the hardships of the plain begin, the hardships of everyday life. the european commission is also primarily responsible for this, but not in the sense that we need a top layer of technocrats or bureaucrats. no, we need political people, commissioners of flesh and blood, and not - i give mr poettering the right - non-partisan members of the commission. but i would congratulate you, mr poettering, if you would say the same to other members of the commission, to the vice-president of the commission, etc., of whom we have also read and heard some comments which do not speak for the neutrality of the commission. we need commissioners with visions, with political power to shape this europe. i think that's the key. we have a request to you as the socialist group: first, of course, that you express this clearly. some of you were a little reticent in the hearings, perhaps you were still shy, perhaps you were even more afraid of this parliament than you probably will be in the course of time, although you should always be a little afraid! but above all, it is about something else, it is about the european social model we want to achieve. some, including those in this house, may prefer to see the neoliberal storm sweeping away the foundations of the european social model. we prefer to see the spring wind, which may be mild, but which brings freshness and new flowers and new leaves to this europe and yet does not destroy the trees that grow here. it is also about reducing some of the deficits in europe. you have a great responsibility. but not just for budget deficits. there are other deficits, for example in the employment sector. europe suffers from these deficits in employment policy. as the president of the commission said, our competitors are in america, in china, and now in india. i warn against looking for competition only among ourselves, with the lowest possible tax rates to displace each other, and then pursuing a policy of moving jobs from one part of the continent to another. no, we want to create new jobs on this continent together. the lisbon strategy must also be taken seriously and even more seriously. i just need to look at what is happening in some countries in terms of investment in education, training, research and development, and also infrastructure. the new countries have a very poor and poorly developed infrastructure, if i think, for example, of transport policy. i would like to see not only these countries but also a european budget making greater contributions to education, research and development, and also to infrastructure. the whole thing is certainly also related to sustainable development. kyoto is a buzzword, the chemicals act is a second example. we must be pioneers in europe in these areas too. however, and this is particularly true of foreign economic policy, we must ensure that we are not the only ones to implement kyoto and pass a strict chemical law, but instead we must use all the means at our disposal to press america, russia, china, japan and so on to comply with these agreements. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make a proposal to the council to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the word 'competition' in the title of the directive. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i am glad that mrs hübner has given a positive answer to that question. we must also defend our european social model through external economic policy, for example in the area of public services. it is not right that the commission, time and again, despite a clear vote in this house, should try to put liberalisation and ultimately privatisation of water, public transport, health and education on the agenda. we as a group are also in favour of opening up the market, and it is precisely here that we have again - i personally, for example, and the commission too - taken positive steps with regard to the railways. but there are areas which are at the very heart of what we understand as a national or european model of society, and they should be accepted and continued in this sense. as i have said, we want a political commission, commissioners of flesh and blood who will also express their political views in this house. we want a commission which also argues with us. i see some people here who i've had a lot of arguments with because they were emotional themselves, because they acted out of anger and rage themselves. then we can argue with you, and you should argue with us, but be open with us, be honest with us, don't make any angular moves! if you argue with us openly and honestly, we will support you in the common interest of this europe, in which we have a very, very great political interest. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the introduction of basel ii is on the agenda for the next parliamentary term. this is about creditworthiness and the collateral needed for small and family businesses. this is of course a very important issue, especially in the enlargement phase. i would like to ask the commissioner what he thinks of the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you literally announced yesterday before the elections that we must eliminate all the grey areas that are damaging parliament. there is one decision which many of our colleagues cannot understand, namely that of the quaestors on 26 may this year, which led to more than 200 members who are no longer members of this house receiving daily allowances for yesterday. i ask you to look into this incident and also into whether this daily allowance can be withheld because it has already caused another loss to the taxpayer of between 50 and 100 000 euros.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! i also welcome you here and thank you. i was born in salzburg, a city that was refounded in the 10th century by irish monks from roman ruins. they have drained the swamps, laid the foundations of the city, and settled the disputes of the tribal chiefs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council has already taken a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the council will take it up again in the near future. you have preserved the architecture of the constitution, which is probably the most important achievement. governments have, of course, taught us a lesson in power. the european parliament has been a party to the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms since the beginning of the century. that is sad. the lesson of power is all the more sad because parliament could now give an appropriate answer to the question put by the president of the commission, in which it has the formal final decision and could show whether it is willing to turn a formal decision into a substantive one and to impose respect for parliament. it's a good way to tell who's got the will to power and who isn't. i thank you, mr president-in-office. the italian presidency of the council has long been at loggerheads over where the constitution is to be signed. she also provided the text for the agreement to be signed in rome. that's a whole different achievement, and we're grateful. it is not as if the draft constitution has remained intact. the removal of the legislative council from the draft convention is the removal of a concept of the convention's monarchy and of a tremendous democratic advance in the separation of powers which has not yet been achieved. we have more council legislation with all its questionable legitimacy of government legislation. we have turned the double majority, a clear formula for decision making that is understandable and acceptable to all citizens, into another mathematical formula. the union's ability to act has suffered from the introduction of unanimity where the convention provided for qualified majority voting. the social dimension - a question on which the convention itself has not been particularly successful - has also been further restricted: instead of full employment, there is still only a high level of employment. i do not think parliament has played too much of a role in the last phase. but now governments will need us if this constitution is to be accepted by the people and ratified by the parliaments. i would like to thank you, mr president-in-office, in particular for having preserved this original idea of the constitution and the draft convention. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if the first one makes a mistake or fails to implement the work programme successfully, the burden falls on the successive presidencies. you have a double responsibility. you will have the presidency of the council at the beginning of the new electoral period, you will have the presidency of the council at the beginning of the new definition of the dossiers in a new commission. you have the opportunity for continuity and for corrections. you have also taken on old burdens, and i therefore ask you to do two things: to end the blockade on the council's decision on the statute for members and to implement our demand for a statute for members by the end of this year. secondly - and only then can we put into practice the new travel expenses regulation which we have decided to adopt - we also need a new travel expenses regulation. the second burden you have borne is the falling turnout in the european elections. we need a common information and communication strategy between regions, member states and european institutions. here's your chance to sign the constitutional treaty. use this signature to launch a professional information and communication campaign. i would like to see a european referendum instead of the nationalisation of this great european project. use the financial perspective to plan political priorities for 2013, use the treatment of the commission's report on turkey's accession to debate the geographical and feasibility limits of the european union and present alternative models for full membership! i ask you to bring the council to a common position on transport policy so that we can conclude the road costs directive quickly.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. it has already been said by our president, mr schulz, that the opinion of the socialist group is formed because it is based on facts and not on prejudice. but i do not want to hide the fact that there are some very, very critical points and that there are certainly some mistrust, some criticism, which i would like to emphasize clearly and clearly here today. the first point - and you are not personally responsible for this - is the whole selection procedure. the shadow of this process has now fallen on you too, and we have already made it clear that we reject this procedure, where after so many names have been mentioned, a name that was not mentioned at all first comes up as a priority, that this is not an acceptable selection process for us. perhaps, in view of your experience in the last few weeks, you can help to bring about a change in the spirit of the relationship between the council, parliament and the commission, both in the run-up to and in the context of the new constitution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. secondly, my colleague, mr jan marinus wiersma, will deal with foreign policy, but mr barroso, you did not convince us at the hearing about your conduct in connection with the war in iraq. and i'm not interested in the past, i'm interested in the future. how will you or would you act in a similar case? would you allow this to continue in the same way, with different heads of government acting as has been done here, without waiting for the commission or the council to coordinate? and how will you prevent us from following blindly the decisions of the united states again, and moreover decisions based on false documents? but the crucial question is, and here too your answer has been completely unsatisfactory, which european model of society you represent. you say you represent one. they emphasize the importance of public services. they have not acknowledged the existence of framework directives, they have not acknowledged that public services and public interest services are protected, developed and strengthened in this europe. we have not had enough of your understanding of what social europe is. the same applies to the question of jobs. many people in this europe fear that jobs will be lost as a result of the relocation of industries. what will you do to ensure that new jobs are created, that these jobs are maintained and that we remain competitive and at the same time a social europe? and lastly, we were deeply disappointed when you resigned as prime minister immediately after your nomination, as if you had already been elected. and you said you only needed 50 percent and one vote. if that is enough for you, then sometimes you may get 50 per cent less votes in this house for your motions, for your proposals. and that would be a shame. i don't know if you'll be elected tomorrow, but there's a good chance. you must accept that we, as the socialist group, will always be fair, but there will be hard debates about this social europe. if you do not make more progress on the question of a social europe, there will be bitter controversy. i wish you all the best in this debate, which you will have with our group if you are elected. (applause from the centre)
first of all, portugal is strong, congratulations to portugal, congratulations to its football team. their players were, without a doubt, the best in the euro. yet they did not win. unfortunately, at this point, you're not the best player in the political game, but you're going to win. we know the world isn't fair.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. as a non-attached member of parliament from a small eu member state like austria, you must feel that you are completely powerless, without any influence, when it comes to important personnel policy decisions in this house. the election of the president of this house has been negotiated behind closed doors, as has the election of the president of the commission. however, i am concerned to urge the new commission president, who seems to be in office, not to overlook the opinion of the vast majority of eu citizens on one of the most important issues of his future mandate, namely the question of turkey's accession to the eu. in my native austria, before the european elections on 13 june, all parties more or less clearly promised the people that turkey would not join the eu, since it was not a european country and was not ready for europe. now negotiations are to be opened with ankara, and you, mr barroso, have allegedly declared that you are personally in favour of turkey's accession. now, at least in austria, people feel cheated on this important issue. they feel that turkey's accession to the eu is already decided, whether they are for it or against it. in view of this, we should not be surprised in this parliament to see that anti-europeanism is growing in all parts of the union, and you, mr barroso, speak less of euroscepticism and much more dangerously of europeopathy in many people. the european parliament has been a very important institution in the european community for a long time. in future, mr barroso, fight for a people's europe, listen to the people's voice, including on the question of turkey.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to emphasize the opinion of the chairman of the committee, also on behalf of my group, that this is not a vote on the substance, but that we all agree that we should discuss this matter thoroughly and quickly. we should send this signal outward that we are ready to discuss, but not in the form of urgency.
mr president, madam vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you for your report which you have presented today. i would just like to make a few points. the first point is certainly the preparation for the next steps of enlargement and also the neighbourhood policy, because perhaps it has not been clear to everyone that enlargement is not finished, and you have rightly pointed out the historical importance of the enlargement project. we have heard from commissioner verheugen that we are very concerned about romania and bulgaria, even when it comes to the conclusion of the talks and ratification, whether the development in the next two years before accession will be as it should be. we therefore need a lot of observation of the actual processes, the actual implementation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. then, of course, it is necessary to follow things with due attention. but that applies to the whole of the neighbourhood policy. i am thinking, for example, of the balkans, where we have achieved peace, but it is a very precarious peace, and where we still have a lot to do to ensure that peace and also economic and social development. you have drawn attention to security policy, and i think it is a good approach in principle that we in the commission - and i hope also in the new commission, in a more intensive and expanded way - should try to shape migration and security policy together with our neighbours and to avoid the unfortunate developments that we have seen in recent weeks and months, indeed years, especially in the mediterranean region, where many people are dying trying to get to europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. i do not believe that enlargement and neighbourhood policy are purely financial, but without the appropriate financial measures we will not succeed here. the second point, which mr schulz has already mentioned, is the question of competition, social europe and sustainable development. i believe that we need to support social europe and sustainable development even more, without diminishing the importance of competition. but, madam vice-president, you are certainly also aware of this report, which was drawn up on behalf of mr almunia and mr bolkestein, on the evaluation of the performance of network industries providing services of general interest. it is a very interesting report which shows that competition policy is indeed having some successes for consumers, because that is what it is all about in terms of low prices, also in terms of better supply. but this report, which comes from the commission and is very competitive, shows that we have some open problems, for example in transport. i will take two examples which may be of great interest to you or where you have worked yourself, in the field of transport. many consumers believe that a number of problems are arising or persisting in transport, and in particular in local public transport, which cannot be solved by competition alone but also, and especially, by investment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the transeuropean networks. i also thank the commission for its cooperation. on the other hand, the financial resources needed to make these investments are also needed. and in the energy sector, there are many consumer demands, as this report has shown, for alternative or renewable energy sources. we have a great deal of difficulty in some countries in getting these renewable energies up and running. some countries have done more than the target, but some countries have done too little. here too, more investment is needed to drive this sustainable development. i would like to make a few comments on budgetary policy, because i think we will be very busy in the coming months with this: it is not a question of stating in the abstract that we need 1% or 1.14% of the social product. it's about asking ourselves, where are we lacking? i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have spoken to the dutch presidency in the committee responsible about this. we have in the universities, despite the lisbon process, more and more cuts in training and continuing training due to budgetary problems. but europe will not move closer to the objectives of the lisbon process unless we invest more in education and training, unless we can reverse the brain drain that still exists towards the usa. we must bring the best minds back to europe or keep them here, and i believe that these are the very investments that are important. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i welcome the new commissioner's provision for this; i am not going to go into the details of the matter. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on it. it will have to be different in britain than in austria, in france than in poland, because it also addresses local problems. i hope that the support will be increased accordingly. in conclusion, madam vice-president, i have already said that we have fought some battles, we have had some serious disputes, but we have not yet reached a settlement. i would like to thank you personally and on behalf of the group for your work. i think that in the end, good fruit always came out of it, whether it was spanish oranges or other fruits, he said; success is what counts. thank you for your cooperation. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to congratulate the commission on its initiative. i think the commission has taken the right course here. we all know that the principle of mutual recognition through standardization and standardization is a very efficient and competitive way of doing things, and this is of course also true, in particular, for spare parts. wherever the ce marking is used or has to be used, the consumer has the guarantee that the legal requirements are being complied with. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected. what would be desirable, and this has always been very differently assessed by the commission, are voluntary safety marks such as the gs mark ("tested safety") in germany. there is a market of its own where the consumer has a safety mark and can see on the market that a notified body has dealt with the matter; this mark tells him that he can buy a very safe product. i would like to know what the commission's position is on this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the textile industry is undergoing a major transformation. the european market is opening up, many markets are inaccessible to our exporters because of trade barriers. so i would like to know what is the situation with singapore, competition, public tenders, investment, etc. the export strategy we need for the european union is of course extremely important. so i'd be interested to hear your opinion on that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we are all witnessing a humanitarian catastrophe of alarming proportions in the western province of darfur in sudan. i was not a member of the ad hoc committee, nor do i have any experience in this area. but all i've learned so far in this debate is that the crisis is playing out in the same pattern as all of these crises. we are too slow, too weak and too incoherent. this allows genocide to go on with impunity and a government that is responsible for this ongoing massacre simply does not take us seriously. if there is no question of conflict prevention, it is essential that damage control is at least now taking place and that international pressure is increased by coordinated action by the eu, the usa, the un and the oau to put an end to this genocide. the eu should be able to provide for a wider deployment of african union troops. the international court of justice should be able to act, and i think that above all we should not just play with sanctions in words, but finally consider them as a real alternative. the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the draft budget for the financial year.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. we are all very concerned about the increase in the quality and quantity of terrorism. but what bothers me and many of us is this red line that runs from bush's policy of pre-emptive war in iraq, to sharon's insistence that violence is the only answer to violence, to putin's actions, which also go in this direction: violence must be followed by violence, authority must be followed by authority, authoritarian structures must follow. i am very grateful to all the speakers, the foreign minister and the commissioner, for showing the others the - i would say - european way. and it is not about bowing down to terrorism and giving in to terrorism, but about fighting the causes of terrorism. europe must make this clear to its partners, including russia. we must fight terrorism, but we must also eliminate the causes of terrorism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the stability and growth pact is a success. twelve countries are members of the eurozone; the treaty of rome lays down the rules for membership of the community, it is the basis for public debate on the relationship between budgetary discipline, inflation, price stability, growth and employment, it is the basis for debate on the structural problems in europe, it is the basis for debate on the role of the commission in relation to the economic policies of the member states. the pact must not be used as an excuse for our own failures and omissions. the pact is a call for action to the member states and the commission. the european court of justice has strengthened the commission and thus the pact. the new constitution has strengthened the pact and the european central bank by including price stability as an objective in the constitution. there will be no change in the rules of the game with us. if flexibility means relaxation, you change the rules of the game. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. i support the council's position and the remarks of president trichet. we need clear rules that apply to all and successful implementation. we have no problem with the pact, but we have a deficit in implementation. i therefore say yes to a debate on how we can increase the overall debt level, how we can define the criteria for the necessary generation of budget surpluses in good times, how we can incorporate the consequences of demographic developments and how we can debate in public about the difference between structural and investment debt. we also need a debate on the commission's powers in implementing the pact. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we want the citizens of europe to have confidence in the rules we are setting. we want citizens to be sure that everyone in europe is equal before the law and is treated fairly.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! commissioner barrot, i am very surprised by your statement here. in the debate over the ratification of a european constitution in the coming months, who else but the european institutions and this house will be the advocates of this european constitution, the custodians of the great consensus in the european convention, the custodians of the idea of european unification? but these institutions offer a strange picture. it reminds me of a child who loses a ball playing, jumps across the road, and falls under the wheels, and looks on in a haunted way to see if that ball might not turn up on the other side of the road unharmed. no, we cannot make this constitution a mere plaything for national and nationalistic debates. and we cannot make it a playground for domestic political bickering and calculations. i would have expected the commission to do so. what is the commission doing? the new commission will no longer have a portfolio, nor will it have a commissioner in charge. there were two in the previous commission; the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. what is the commission doing? it also provides for the budgetary appropriations for communication and information to citizens on the european constitution. if you want to relinquish responsibility for the constitution, if you want to be the motor of european integration and the treaties, but not the advocate of the development of european integration, then go ahead. no, you have a very important historical decision to make: do you want to prevent the constitution from becoming a toy of nationalism, of renationalization in europe, of chauvinism, together with this house, with the council? look at your country, where members of the convention are already acting as opponents of the constitution. did you not understand that it takes great courage to defend this common work for a common future? (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a few days ago, the committee on constitutional affairs discussed the allocation of large sums from the eu's coffers to institutions which are supposed to make the constitutional treaty known to the citizens of the eu countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and it is not surprising that the council has taken the view that the commission's proposals are not in line with the spirit of the treaty. the european parliament has been asked to adopt a new resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which is to be adopted by the council of ministers on 1 january. the citizens will feel that they are once again faced with a fait accompli. but this must increase the scepticism towards europe, which was confirmed by the low turnout in the european elections. we must therefore have the courage to allow a controversial debate on the constitutional treaty. we will also have to admit the weaknesses of this treaty, its shortcomings. otherwise the citizens will not really accept this basic law for europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president of the council! relations with the united states are also reflected in many international agreements; an example of this is the kyoto protocol, which the united states has not signed. do you see any possibility that we could negotiate with the united states in order to reach an agreement on the kyoto protocol? the principle would be to seek common legislation on both sides of the atlantic.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. mrs doyle has already said, when presenting our written request to the commission, that this positioning is not only about the 25 countries of the european union, but that it is also a signal to the rest of the 166 countries party to the cites convention, or as it is also known, the washington convention for the protection of wildlife. that is why it is important for us to send a clear signal here as the european parliament. at present, this convention covers some 30,000 species. we know that, apart from habitat destruction, international trade is the biggest threat to the survival of many endangered species. that is why it is necessary, and that is why i was pleased to see some of the european commission's positions, and also because the commission is speaking with a clear and strong voice in favour of strict trade restrictions at this conference of the contracting states. i refer to mrs korhola, who said that for her the precautionary principle is very, very important as the basis for all decisions. the debate on this oral question, and on today's resolution, was dominated by two issues, namely the protection of minke whales and the ivory trade. it is no secret that japan is seeking and pursuing a return to commercial whaling. at the last meeting of the international whaling commission in july 2004, japan failed to assert its position. we call on the european union and the member states to give a clear answer to japan's request for the transfer of three species of minke whales from annex i to annex ii, and therefore to maintain the higher level of protection for whales. in this resolution, the european parliament makes it clear that we welcome the call from kenya and other african states to introduce a 20-year moratorium on trade in ivory. the african elephant population plummeted from 1.2 million to 600,000 between 1980 and 1989, and then halved again to 300,000 by 2001. the demand for ivory is one of the main reasons for the rapid decline in elephant populations. the current system of quotas for ivory exports from certain countries has not worked because the demand is so great that huge quantities are being smuggled illegally. so it's a confusing situation for consumers and regulators and a very pleasant situation for those who want to smuggle ivory illegally. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. fraudulent misrepresentation of information on customs declarations and cites permit forms is a common phenomenon in the illegal wildlife trade. we have also been dealing with the subject of the african lion since yesterday. my group is in favour of maintaining paragraph 7 as it now stands in the resolution. the facts we have about the threat to the african lion are clear. there has been a dramatic decline in recent years, and i was therefore very pleased to see the clear position of the european commission on this issue.
mr president, mr president of the commission! i am not saying that the commission should be surprised, but rather that it should be surprised - and i am surprised too - that some people do not have the courage and the ability to be objective and to be partisan at this hour, as my predecessor has just done. i can confirm on behalf of my group and many colleagues in this house that you have worked very closely and very well with this parliament. that is also true of vice-presidents loyola de palacio and neil kinnock and of all the members of this commission. this was a milestone, it set standards and it will remain so. and i wonder, mrs grossetête, whether the barroso commission will live up to these standards. barroso has not shown this so far, but prodi has. secondly, the enlargement that has taken place and the mediterranean policy give you the right - contrary to what some members have said. and we will ask mr barroso to do the same, and whether he will do both to the same extent and with the same care as the prodi commission has done. in this context i would also mention dialogue with islam. president prodi pointed out that if we want greater security, we do not need more weapons, but we need a willingness to dialogue, especially with our neighbours, within the framework of the neighbourhood policy. where did the neighbourhood policy come from? the commissioner said that the commission had not yet taken a decision. it was a great achievement and we must not only be grateful for it but also continue to do so in the future. i would have liked more on employment policy and many other things, but it was not the commission but the council that was unfortunately very cautious and reserved. president prodi has already pointed this out. he was the first to have the courage to say, in perhaps somewhat provocative terms, that the stability pact, in the form in which it was drawn up, was not very intelligent. now that the proposals have come in, i am convinced that we will find a majority for these proposals, just as there will be a majority among the finance ministers. because as an economist, i say that any economic rule must be applied with intelligence and not with doctrine and bureaucracy. this is something that professor prodi was certainly the first to realise. let me say one last thing, because it is being debated right now. mr. bourlanges is sitting here next to me, and he can sing a song about it. it is not a question of shooting a man or a person because he belongs to a certain government or a certain political line, as journalists want. the point is that we social democrats and the majority in this house want to maintain the standards that this commission has set in terms of fundamental rights and freedoms and non-discrimination. we want a clear answer here. this is what the next few days are all about: i would like to ask the commissioner whether the barroso commission is able to maintain these standards, particularly in the area of fundamental rights and freedoms, where you were also very active in drawing up the catalogue. we need to promote the role of women more, we need non-discrimination on grounds of gender and sexual orientation. that's what these prodi commission standards are about. barroso must prove that he can meet these standards. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i want to apologize for leaving soon after my speech because i have other commitments. i wanted to ask you, mr commissioner, a specific question or make a comment following what commissioner patten said. i agree with your plans, with your four points, completely. i think they're well balanced and they're right. the question is: are we willing on both sides to actually implement these plans? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. was there really a willingness to allow the palestinians to provide security as much as they wanted - not all of them wanted to - to do so? reform of the authority: how can an authority be reformed if by imprisoning arafat, it is made a hero of the palestinians? he was already lower in the palestinian public opinion, and israel helped him. financial support? i will vote for it in this house only if i am sure, or at least can assume, that the infrastructure investments will not be destroyed by israel again. this is a prerequisite, because the taxpayer, as you both rightly said, cannot be allowed to rebuild an infrastructure which is then destroyed again. the same is true of elections. i am absolutely in favour of voting. i have also spoken to the finance minister, whom you also respect, and he too hopes that new, young forces will enter the palestinian authority. but the elections must be possible from the entire infrastructure, and there again israel is called upon to make these elections possible. i therefore fully support your programme; i think it is good, i think it is balanced, i think it is right. but we need both sides to make it work, otherwise it's just another empty program. so israel really needs to be involved; it needs to be willing to do these things. and then i am in favour of our being critical and tough towards the palestinian authority.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am really glad that this issue, which is important for every eu citizen, is on the agenda today, and i am very sorry that many groups have already left the chamber. in our enlarged union we are also facing new challenges in this area, simply by the shifting of our external borders. we must be able to ensure that our external borders are well secured. a coordinated border policy must be given priority and the security of our external borders must be jointly financed. i am, however, somewhat sceptical about the establishment of an eu border guard corps in this context. the future objective must be to create a common right of asylum and clear rules on migration, with the member states being free to decide on the question of quotas. in this context, it is important to counteract illegal immigration. the right of asylum is inviolable, but there can be no right to immigrate. we must also seek to strengthen cooperation with neighbouring countries on asylum and migration flows. the protection of our citizens requires action against terrorism and organised crime, and it is important to find a good compromise between data protection, the fight against terrorism, economic interests and citizens' rights. the fight against child pornography, trafficking in women, drugs and corruption, and the stabilisation of the balkans must also be the main priorities of our policy. in conclusion, i should like to thank commissioner vitorino in all respects on behalf of my member state for his dedicated and very positive work for our common europe.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner. it is always an advantage at the end of a debate to be able to listen attentively, and personally i would say that there was something plausible in each of the contributions made. but to cut a long story short: my position is that it makes sense, given that we have so many european regulations, that there should and must be a european data protection supervisor. i think it makes little sense to do it the way it's being tried here. i think the conservatives have abstained for good reason; i think you can also vote against it for very, very good reason. instead of using the possibilities we have to deal with things much more efficiently and to take things out of things that have been there for a long time, we are again trying to add new things, and i am against that. i think that the data protection officer also has the advantage of being able to do a lot less efficiently.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. and i'm about to ask the president a question that i don't need him to answer, but the feeling behind it would have interested me. how did you feel this morning when you read in the financial times this disastrous report by the current and perhaps somewhat extended president of the commission, mr prodi, on the lisbon strategy? the question may have arisen for you too: what did we do wrong in europe? could it have something to do with the fact that we in europe, unfortunately, and especially those represented by the speakers whom we have already heard in some parts of this house, have engaged in an ideological trench warfare, which is supposed to be the primary objective of the ecb, rather than taking a comparatively pragmatic approach? i would ask my conservative colleague, mr lauk, to read the same speech he gave again, simply on american terms. then he would probably realize for himself that price stability and economic growth are always something that a central bank must keep an eye on in order to be able to act accordingly successfully. the same applies, of course, to another question gretchen asks you as the new president on the subject of inflation. in your speech you said that in certain areas we are probably already moving from deflation to inflation. the greek government's actions, with some active assistance, or at least negligence, in the field of eurostat may perhaps become a problem for other countries. here i really ask you in the interest of all those who believe in the euro, who are in the eurozone - i count myself as an austrian - to be much more critical than your predecessor and to look much more closely. i think we have - to get to the third area, which i would like to draw your attention to - really serious problems with transparency in data collection as well as in your own area. i share the view that more transparency would be good. the president has given me two and a half minutes, and i would like to take advantage of that. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i want to thank you first. i thank you for the constructive cooperation and the increased dialogue, i thank you for the consistent and successful confidence-building work, and i thank you for your commitment to the stability and growth pact. it is probably due to the short time that mr martin has been on the committee that he has not yet recognised the link between price stability, low inflation, growth and employment. i would also like to congratulate you on your contribution to the fact that we have enshrined price stability in the constitution as a european objective and not merely as the objective of the european central bank, and on your successful policy which has strengthened the independence of the ecb and made it a stronger communicative player. we have a few requests, of course. one request concerns independence. resist all attempts by the finance ministers - and apparently also the hungarian government - to increase their influence on the monetary policy of the ecb politically and the national central banks personally. i also ask you to become more of the first communicator of the importance of monetary policy for the strong euro, low inflation rates, price stability, growth and employment and the national economy. because we know that the value of the euro is higher than what the citizens think. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of national accounts for the financial year 2000 to ensure that the budget is kept up to date.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the continuing rise in oil prices is another clear indication of our economic dependence on third countries. we must never forget that crude oil has been and is the cause of many economic conflicts. in addition, there are negative environmental impacts from extraction, processing and consumption. we must also never forget that this is a finite resource. it is high time that europe broke free from its economic dependence on oil imports. the high oil prices are also having a negative impact on agriculture and are causing our farmers to lose considerable income. the targeted use of renewable energy is now more necessary than ever, the use of renewable raw materials not only makes a significant contribution to environmental protection, but also opens up new income alternatives for our farmers. but above all, it is the right way to energy independence. we must therefore work to change the half-hearted solution of voluntary blending of biofuels to a mandatory blending throughout europe. the current directive has given the oil industry a stronger voice. the objectives of the kyoto protocol, namely improved income security for our rural areas and the opportunity to create additional jobs in peripheral areas, have not been achieved. the commissioner, out of a sense of responsibility towards future generations, must work towards more efficient promotion and mandatory use of renewable energy at european level. when, i ask, if not now? let us go on the offensive with new intelligent energies and into the future!
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. the commission is not it is a little strange that we are being asked about urgency here. the commission has only recently made changes to this, major changes to the agency. the council's second request for urgency on the promotion of the economic development of the turkish cypriot community is also the same, for the sake of simplicity, because in both cases the council and the commission have put forward new, serious new proposals. the committee will deal with it this evening, but in both cases i can now recommend, also on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, that the urgency should be rejected.
mr president, we are very much in favour of and support urgency. i just wanted to point out, by way of form, that the former yugoslav republic no longer exists. it's serbia and montenegro. a small thing, but one that is considered very important in this region.
thank you, mr president. the commission is not alone. you yourself have said, and it has been said today, that you want to be the president of a strong commission. in fact, there are a number of commissioners who have shown themselves to be very strong, especially in the hearings, and who are sitting in your immediate neighbourhood today, for example. and there are many commissioners who, as you said, have the potential to become very good commissioners if they have acquired the technical knowledge. many of them are socially and politically unrelated to us, and yet we agreed to them because we are convinced that they fit well with the commission. but there are some cases, and you had to defend them today - which is already problematic when a commission is being set up - which will create problems in the commission in the years to come. there is certainly one commissioner in particular whom we do not think is fit to have the role that is assigned to him. it is true that, as i have said on several occasions, mr buttiglione has every right to hold these opinions, which we do not share. but if he has these opinions and if he acts in that way and acts in that way over and over again, then he is not fit to have the portfolio you have assigned him. i must say this very clearly. mr barroso, the problem is no longer that of buttiglione alone. you yourself, by your actions or inactions, have made the buttiglione case a barroso case. that is sadly true and will certainly play a large part in our decision tonight. mr barroso, you have now made a number of proposals, but again you are not taking parliament seriously, because much of what you are selling here is already in the pipeline. you're acting like you're reacting now. but you're not reacting, you're just picking up on what's already there. they sell old wine in new bottles. we cannot accept that. we shall look at this very carefully, and i think you have found a way to parliament which we cannot accept because it does not correspond to reality. and mr buttiglione is already making fun of your proposal, mr barroso, to create a kind of subcommittee in the commission. he mocks it and insults a possible future commissioner, mr špidla. is that any way to deal with your proposals for your own commission? you didn't say anything about this. i wish you'd say something. what do you think of a member of your commission insulting another member of the commission, making false claims and mocking your proposals? that is why we cannot get much out of what you have proposed today, mr president barroso. i'm sorry to tell you, but i wish it were different. you didn't convince us. they haven't even made a serious attempt to convince us. (applause from the centre)
mr president of the commission! you said there was a positive and a negative hearing in the case of candidate buttiglione. i am afraid that you have not listened to parliament very carefully in this case, because the letter from the chairman of the committee on legal affairs also contained some very critical remarks. i personally regret very much that the commissioner-designate, mr buttiglione, did not want to take the opportunity of the second hearing in the legal affairs committee, but he clearly emphasized there, for example, that his religious views are not just his private views, but that he also wants to make them the guiding principle of his political action. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. i think that's beyond what's private. i would also like to say that i am still expecting an apology for the attacks on commissioner spidla. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i am glad that the debate on the future of the european union is taking place today. the future is always expressed in money and where it is invested, and i think we are on the right track to invest in the lisbon agenda. we have provided at least 92 million euros for preparatory measures and pilot projects. we have provided eur 49 million for the financial environment. we're focusing on the slope in the border regions. i believe that the latest developments - the crisis in the automobile industry, rising energy prices - show that we must also adjust the european budget to growth. it is also important that this is communicated accordingly. the focus on information policy will be a major focus for the next five years. we must explain europe much better. we have seen in the pre-election campaign various bullying strategies against the european union and against democracy in europe. i think it is our duty to explain to the citizens what is being done here and how important europe's place in the world will be to us in the future. that is why we are committed to the information points, the campaign for the future of europe, the carrefours, prince, all these important points to bring europe closer to the citizen and to explain it. the intelligent energy for europe programme is also very important to us all. i hope that we will be able to make some further progress in the future, particularly with regard to energy prices. we should start slowly in parliament, bringing our technical infrastructure up to date, whether it be information and communication technology or the internet and television, and try to become the most modern parliament in the world.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say that i agree with the previous speaker, mr wohlin, on the broad lines. i think that the union, which is supposed to be a shield for europe, is making a very serious mistake by continuing to waste billions, to use a more dramatic word. but the home is also full of tricky niches and hidden corners. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. two to be picked out. firstly, what is now being planned with regard to the implementation of the party statute, which in many, many areas must be described as a genuine problem in democratic politics. the point is that you sneak in, that there is, to quote the party researcher professor von arnim, a secret money tap that can be opened at any time at taxpayer expense. if we continue in this way, this too will be against the european project. the same applies to the increase in the secretarial allowance for this house, which has been very cleverly put in reserve at the moment but which has been raised again. of course we must be able to work well here, but not in this way where beneficiaries can get money so easily and party workers, without doing anything for parliament, can be shown to get very, very much money over and over again.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. state aid is a topic of discussion which is frequently raised in the context of natural disasters. the enlargement of the european union has meant that objective 1 and 2 areas in the border regions now border on other areas which have been deprived of their objective status. could you imagine that temporary exemptions for these border regions in the area of state aid would be created in the future?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unlike antipersonnel mines, there is no treaty yet to ban cluster munitions, but there is a growing awareness of the need for global action. i believe that our resolution today is an important contribution to this awareness and to active action. we have to be very careful about the use of cluster munitions in armed conflicts. there are many casualties during the fighting, but also years afterwards. a report by human rights watch on the conduct of war and civilian casualties during the iraq war, published in late 2003, highlights this problem. it is reported that the use of cluster munitions in large quantities, especially by us and british ground troops, has cost hundreds of civilian lives. i think that the claim that we want to make weapons safer and produce them in a way that has less devastating effects on the civilian population will not do much good either. the european parliament's call for an immediate moratorium on the production and use of cluster bombs is therefore of the utmost importance.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! i too take this opportunity to say goodbye to you and to thank you for your cooperation over the years. you have been particularly concerned with the western balkans, and i wish we did not have to install an eu military security operation here ten years after the balkan wars. but it is - as the high representative for foreign affairs once said years ago - a front which we have to deal with for a long time to come, and it is on our doorstep in europe. it is closer to us than other crisis areas, whether in the congo, sudan or the ivory coast, as unfortunate as all this is, and it also places us in a position of responsibility. but althea is more than that: it is a test case for the visible role of the eu in bosnia and herzegovina, which is taking over from nato for the first time. the mission is part of a coordinated and coherent approach which also includes the stabilisation and association process, which i hope will make greater progress, because we are concerned that there are still 16 points open. the european perspective is needed in bosnia and herzegovina and althea is to help ensure that perspective. the essential thing is to have a clear command structure which avoids duplication between nato and althea and makes the command structure as clear as possible. the cooperation between althea and nato is therefore also put to the test here. it is regrettable that budgetary protection takes place outside the normal eu budget and that the european parliament is not involved as it should be. i welcome the report and can assure you, on behalf of the epp-ed group, that we support it.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not the european agency for reconstruction - which should be called 'for reconstruction and development' but still bears the name 'for reconstruction' - has been given a new important role in managing the financing instrument for northern cyprus, having focused on work in kosovo, serbia and montenegro. there can be no doubt that the agency has efficiently fulfilled its tasks in its old mandate areas and i am confident that it will do so for northern cyprus. however, as in previous cases, it is also important for northern cyprus that the commission submits a report to the european parliament and the council by june 2005 on the future of the agency after 31 december 2006. the future of the european agency for reconstruction is too important for the eu to leave in doubt. the relationship between the agency and the so-called decentralised commission delegations must also be clarified in order to avoid any vacancies or duplications. the report should of course also include the implementation of the cards multiannual programme 2005-2006 for the leadership of the republic of macedonia, which it does not do so far. we therefore support the proposal to supplement the council regulation on the european agency for reconstruction on behalf of the epp-ed group. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. let us reflect on our strengths, make nails with heads, remove the blockages in ourselves, do not complain sickly! let us make a european policy for europe instead of national policies for europe. mr president-in-office, i believe it is urgent that you make the lisbon objectives concrete and operational. everyone needs to know who's doing what until when. ensure that each head of government issues a government declaration in his country after each spring summit and that parliaments debate and adopt country-specific action plans. strengthen the commission's powers of control, coordination and initiative in the lisbon process. let us establish a lisbon steering committee at european level, in national governments and national parliaments, which will be interdisciplinary. we are not an american model. we europeans do not trade competitiveness against social cohesion. both are expressions of the european regulatory model of a sustainable social market economy. ladies and gentlemen, a second point on the constitution: they all signed the new constitution. is that it? where is the joint information concept of the council, the commission, the european parliament and the committee of the regions? where is the week of the constitution, when all the ratification processes take place? why did you resist a european referendum so much? more can be done and more is possible if there is the political will and more determination. you have mentioned the members' statute. mr president-in-office of the council, you only have to accept the decision of the european parliament, and then we have a statute for members and a new system of expenditure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council.
the commission is not alone. i would like to begin by congratulating you on a much better commission, which you have received not least with our help. you can thank us for that. i believe that you have won as an individual, but also the commission, this parliament and also - which is very important - the people, the voters in this europe. i am not saying that the commission should be unable to take action on the basis of the results of the elections, but that it should be able to take action on the basis of the results of the elections. i hope those who say that have all been to the polls because they have realised that it makes a difference how you vote and whether you go to the european parliament elections. in this sense, i believe it is not a victory for individuals but a victory for us all together, and i also believe that the commission and parliament will emerge from this process together stronger. secondly, mr pöttering, let me briefly touch on the buttiglione story, because there are also many myths about it. one of your deputies said during a debate in vienna: 'it is astonishing that a communist can become a member of the european commission, but a catholic cannot.' and that's what i think is very, very problematic, which is what is being spun on myths. we all know and appreciate many of the commission presidents who were catholics, and i assume that in previous commissions - certainly in this one too, i have not checked - many catholics and religious people were or are sitting. that is quite acceptable. that's not what this was about. it was precisely a question of whether buttiglione was suited to the office for which he was destined. i must say one more thing, mr pöttering, because you have spoken a lot about tolerance and i can agree with you on many points: if, in the hearings on mr kovács, the same colleague argues in this way against a man who helped to overthrow the communist regime, who actively helped to ensure that there is a united and common europe, then there are also some among your colleagues who find this argument of their colleague in the group of the party of european socialists shameful. i hope - the honourable member is not here - that by today or tomorrow, when we give our broad approval to this commission, this kind of interference will be over and we will be working constructively with this new commission. i hope that means your approval of this commission. (applause from the centre) let me now turn to two points of substance: the first concerns the social aspect. mr schulz has already said this in detail: we have seen in these elections how many citizens - not all of them necessarily voted for us, but most of them - are affected by a high level of unemployment, by the fact that poverty is rising again on this continent, and therefore it is the duty of this commission to do everything possible to create more jobs and to make the social security systems more durable. this is not to say that we are against reforms, but we are deeply sceptical of some of the provisions of the working time directive, the services directive, for example. the problem is not that there is more competition, but that competition is bought by a deterioration in social services or working conditions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the united states of america is getting a new government, which is partly the old one. they'll also get a new secretary of state. our commissioner for external relations will have to work a lot with condoleezza rice. but i would remind you, mr president, of what you said at the beginning of your presidency: we want to work with america on an equal footing. and we do not expect your commission to adopt an anti-american policy, which would be foolish, but to adopt an independent policy, a policy which we europeans can be proud of, in which we can work with america with confidence and correct america where it makes mistakes, and say so openly, honestly and clearly. we expect that of your commission, and i hope you can deliver.
mr president of the commission! if you are not struck by the brussels blindness, you rub your eyes and say: 'the eu mountain has now crumbled and a new berlusconi mouse has been born.' and everything else remains, the names have now serious backgrounds behind them. what does mrs kroes want to decide? how careful does mrs. boel have to be to not go in the wrong direction? and mr kovács wants to be a tax expert in nine days. if that were possible, every european citizen, perhaps even a woman, could become pope within 14 days. it can't be like this. you're wasting a chance. the commission is not transparent, it is more neoliberal than any of its predecessors. it's a pity so many in this house have lost their courage. because that's not how much has changed. i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a bitter thing for europe, because we have made a design error, and therefore it is exactly the opposite of what is right, mr president of the commission, what you said: democracy will not be strengthened if we support you now, but it will be strengthened if we continue to oppose such practices.
i have to say, madam president, it has often been said that this parliament has helped to make europe a better commission. this is particularly true of the composition of the justice and home affairs department, which is so important for the citizens. as coordinator of my group in the legal affairs committee, i can only confirm that we were extremely impressed by the high level of competence of the commissioner-designate and vice-president frattini, even in very difficult legal matters. in any case, he has a much better understanding of what we here in the european parliament expect from the commissioner. we also trust that mr frattini will put his past as a minister in the berlusconi government behind him. we are wondering how he could have been a minister in berlusconi governments for so long, with the attitude of a very strong commitment to fundamental rights and the rule of law that he showed in the hearing. how, then, could this government have been able to pass so many laws of a constitutional nature which are now being applied by the italian and european courts? we must therefore assume in his favour that he was always abroad as foreign minister when these laws were passed.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the barroso commission and the european parliament are strengthened. but it is sad, inappropriate and wrong that the different assessment of individuals distorts the view of some of us of the whole and the challenges that lie ahead. the commission and the european parliament are a communicating vessel. we need each other. we need a strong commission, one that is proactive, dynamic and competent. we need a strong european parliament, because nothing can be decided in the eu without the citizens of europe or their representatives, because we have to make the european union closer to the citizens, more transparent and more democratic. we must do everything possible to ensure that european policy can once again be based on the constitution, on the inside, as it is in the world, instead of primarily national and party-political european policies, as mr schulz said. let's get the citizens involved! let's explain our goals, motives and achievements. i expect you, mr president, to make the lisbon and barcelona processes concrete and operational in a comprehensible way. that you remove the intra-european blocks, that you push forward the common foreign and security policy, that you do not let the stability and growth pact be weakened, that you carry out the subsidiarity test before submitting proposals, that you articulate a clear justification of the added value of european regulations in an understandable way and that you reach an agreement with the council that wherever an eu euro is invested, the twelve stars are visible. it is the only way to create a european consciousness and to reduce the distance. i and about 500 members of parliament look forward to a confident, successful and fair cooperation. have a good day.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. tibet has long been and rightly so, a focus of european union initiatives. in recent months, unfortunately, there has been a feeling that the voices are becoming a little quieter in view of the good trade relations with china. that is why it is urgent - and i am very pleased - that this joint initiative has been taken and that the european parliament is speaking out against the impending execution of tenzin delek rinpoche, who has not had a fair trial. this execution is to take place in early december, without the guilt of the buddhist lama having been proven. we therefore urge china to refrain from this execution and to ensure a fair trial in accordance with international legal standards. in any case, china must abstain from the death penalty altogether - this is a basic requirement - and finally respect the freedom of religion of the tibetan people, who are defending and demanding their rights in a non-violent manner. this deserves our deep respect. the commission must therefore express its concern at the eu-china summit about the death penalty and urge an acceptable solution to the whole question of tibet. there are international examples of this, and these examples, which are our obligation, must be brought into play again and again to ensure a peaceful life in tibet with china. tibet must be the key to a good partnership between the european union and china; it is our duty to safeguard this task.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the situation in eritrea is getting worse. we have alarming news which is getting worse and more dramatic, as bad as it is to say this. the opposition is no longer just persecuted, it is imprisoned. young conscientious objectors are imprisoned, threatened with death, and reportedly shot in large numbers. freedom of the press no longer exists in eritrea, independent newspapers have been closed, and eritrea ranks fifth-lowest on the world's press freedom list compiled by reporters without borders. what is needed in eritrea now is not just international protest, but an intra-eritrean dialogue with civil society, because this will be and can be the only way to restore peaceful coexistence in this country - by bringing all parties involved to the table and trying to re-establish clear forms of dialogue. the situation is very dramatic and i ask you all to support our resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. of course, as members of parliament we are all interested in receiving all the information and we must continue to ensure that all information is passed on to members of parliament. i would like to stress - and mr farage has acknowledged this in the conference of presidents - that we must respect the national legal situation of each country, and this is also the case in this case, where the penalty has been paid accordingly. therefore, no penalty has been imposed. i would like to say that the commission has not been able to reach a decision on the matter, and that it is not in the best interests of the community to take action against the commission. we have elected this commission and we will support it so that it can begin its work. it has started its work and we should therefore move on to the important items on the agenda. (applause from the centre) i would also like to suggest, mr president, that in view of the urgency of the ukraine debate, we should proceed immediately to the debate on ukraine after this item.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that what is happening now with the negotiations on the financial perspective will be the decisive test of the european union's ability to cope with the challenges of the future. it will now be seen whether the objectives which have been set and the declarations of intent can be translated into real policy. a paint test will then provide a means of evaluation. will it really be possible to increase research funding accordingly and achieve a shift in emphasis within research funding away from the large-scale corporate grants supported by big lobbyists towards small and medium-sized enterprises? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and whether he is aware of the fact that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it will depend on how much money it can actually be. i would take a different approach: first, we should discuss the actual necessary expenditure and then the ceiling.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. in many countries, citizens are made to feel that the citizens of the member states are paying too much into the eu budget and too little is coming back. too often, citizens do not know what the money is used for or how it is used. many member states, mr president of the council, are feeding this negative mood with their strategy. they are placing more and more responsibility - and i say, rightly and thank god - on the european union, but they are willing to pay less and less for it. they give the impression that they are paying too much and do not say that the european union has never used up the financial framework they have agreed to. i think this double strategy is irresponsible. they flee into numbers and formalism. the europe of the future needs honest cooperation between the council, parliament, the citizens of europe and the commission. the future of europe also requires a clear answer to the question of how much money we need to successfully implement our political priorities. how much money do we need for growth, competitiveness, employment, research, the common foreign and security policy, neighbourhood policy, social cohesion, sustainability, regional policy, small and medium-sized enterprises, enlargement, the common agricultural policy, information and communication, to name just a few of the issues that fall within the remit of the european institutions. we ask you to discuss the political priorities and to provide the necessary funds so that we can carry out our tasks in the interests of the citizens in a professional manner.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already done so. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. i would like to stress this and all the points you have made. the fact that we are not yet ready may be due to the fact that the basis of trust between russia and the european union is not yet as it should be. this is again linked to the fact that russia feels itself almost surrounded by an expanding european union and now also fears for its own existence and sphere of influence in relation to developments in ukraine and the south caucasus. i am not saying this to justify russia's position, but we must also look at it psychologically. the european union - and i am grateful for what you and the president-in-office of the council have said - must explain to them that democracy in russia's neighbourhood, together with the rule of law, will ultimately lead to russia also obtaining stable economic relations. so it was also very important in ukraine not to say that there is a russian candidate and an eu candidate, but that there can only be candidates who are elected by the ukrainian people to be their president. it is about the promotion of ukrainian interests, as you have mentioned several times today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will only be interested in russian energy supplies if we feel that energy will never be used as a political weapon and that the tap cannot be turned off for political reasons, but if there is an open investment climate on the other side. then, as i have just said, cooperation with russia in the field of energy will be all the better. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but, as we have repeatedly stressed in connection with chechnya, it is also a matter of combating the causes of terrorism, which are often poverty and poor economic development. i am very much in favour of dialogue on the question of human rights. we have nothing to hide. we have nothing to hide from the treatment and situation of russian-speaking minorities in the european union, because we have done a lot for these minorities and we hope to continue to do so. but on the other hand we must also find a russia which is ready for this dialogue. and finally, we have to convey something very important: in my recent conversation with russian journalists in berlin, i was asked: why do we have to justify ourselves to the european union? no, russia does not have to explain itself to the european union! russia must justify itself to its own people, and russia, like the european union, must justify itself to the world's population as a whole. we are all committed to the goals of democracy and the rule of law. and if russia feels as committed to itself as the european union does, russia will be better off. so it is only a question of building a relationship in the interests of russia and not just in the interests of the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank the european commission for its strategic framework of october 2003 and the action plan for next year which it proposes, including concrete and targeted measures. the community is the second largest donor to the world aids fund, with about 18% of the total. nevertheless, we are seeing a massive increase in new infections both in the community and in other countries. commissioner kyprianou said in a press conference that many young people who are now infected have not been aware of the first aids campaign. i'm sure that's right. but we must also bear in mind that many young people are simply misinformed and, above all, that aids is now portrayed as a treatable disease. the pharmaceutical industry is also doing its part by painting the picture of a defeated epidemic. but the fact is that even the available antiretroviral drugs have massive side effects and, of course, cannot be called normal life. the high cost of treatment, which amounts to between 7,000 and 12,000 euros a year, is also a major burden on national health budgets. i would therefore like to call for specific research and development to produce better and, above all, cheaper medicines, possibly also generics, so that these are made available to the wider population. what i find particularly disturbing is the lack of awareness among young people who, when asked in interviews why they are so relaxed about this disease, ask: what kind of life should i protect myself for? i therefore believe that the plan which the commission is preparing must also incorporate this holistic approach, linking education and, if necessary, also the definition of the whole field.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, let me congratulate my colleague mr seeber on his maiden speech in the european parliament. i believe that today's debate once again shows that our analysis is correct, that the figures are dramatic and the declarations of intent are supported, but that action is insufficient, that the reversal has not been achieved and that the drama is not losing its importance. i can only underline everything that has been said. aids is a disease of our time and a reflection of the malfunctioning of our society. aids is not just about saying, 'do it differently, don't do it, take responsibility.' the aids disease clearly shows that it is linked to poverty. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of aids, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. aids is also an expression of a lack of prevention, a lack of education, a lack of sexual education, a lack of work, an imbalance in the world. and that's why there's no one solution, no one treatment. we need to build on prevention, and that is why it is important that we consider aids as part of health and development policy, education, family and employment policy and the global vision of our responsibility. i call on all of us to take this global responsibility and make sure that we become the number one in the world in aids research.
the commission has already done so. i would like to ask this question to emphasize the contribution of sport to the promotion of social cohesion in society. in the coming year - the european year of education through sport - we must discuss and develop the lessons learned and the criticisms made. football, as we know, has a very special place. it is therefore important to address the fact that more and more young people are excluded from training or from regular places in their teams. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. these figures - and i would like to stress this in particular - have nothing to do with racism or xenophobia, as we have seen very often recently, but are purely for the promotion of young athletes. you'd also help, i mean, clean up some of the club's budget. nor do they contradict the bosman judgment. i know that the argument is often used that we do not have enough reliable young players. perhaps it's also because of the unequal treatment compared to the highly endowed fellow players. young athletes should and must have the opportunity to develop and make a name for themselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore ask the commission what its position is on a possible quota for local players and on investments in local training centres and training of players.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i welcome the proposal from uefa in july 2004 to make a voluntary commitment. this is a good move. i welcome the request at the end of the year for education through sport, because it particularly emphasizes the educational, social, health and community importance of sport, while we also know that sport is also an important economic factor, if not the only one. i would like to ask the commission, on the question of the year of education through sport, when we can expect the report on the results and conclusions to be published so that we can continue the debate on this year in a more intensive way than with regard to a sport. we talk a lot about coercion today, and i wonder: is coercion and education not a contradiction? i am therefore more on the side of commitment. the european union cannot take responsibility away from the clubs, the trainers, the paying spectators, the paying members, the public, the sponsors and the public authorities. should not sponsors, members and the public link their support to certain developments in sport and clubs? and i wonder why today's debate is necessary at all, and why the uefa violation, when we have the helsinki report, when we have the parliament's resolution of 2000? i therefore ask the commission: what have you done with both reports? what went wrong, and what are you willing to do again?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if you follow the debate, you have to keep your ears very tightly closed to avoid concluding that this is the ideal time to make some fundamental considerations. the court of auditors should always be one of the citizens' closest allies as an institution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what happened in the last few years? i remember the big headlines that were made in 1992 by the court of auditors' report. and today, people say, "well, it's like that again". the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i expect you to think about yourself now, based on what has been said so far, and we'll get into this debate on principles.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by expressing my gratitude to the court of auditors for this report. we have seen weaker reports from the court of auditors and i think that, at the very beginning of the negotiations on the financial perspective, this report is so important and so good. the commission has a great responsibility here. we cannot put off spending over 100 billion euros, especially in the area of the structural funds, and then end up being whipped for it by the finance ministers of those countries which do not implement these very structural funds. we must change the financial perspective, commissioner. the same is true when we look again at where we find the big weaknesses, the frauds. i am thinking of the whole area of export refunds for agricultural products. the commission is in charge here! we will continue to have negative headlines about european politics as long as there are such policies in the european union. they're supposed to be off. that is the lesson to be drawn from this report. another point: we have developed pre-accession assistance for the ten new members. we had a 15% outflow until these countries joined. i have heard from the commissioner responsible that sapard will run smoothly. but this is a pre-accession instrument, not a post-accession instrument. we'll have more extensions coming soon. let's learn the lesson. this is the commission's responsibility and something can be done about it. then this report will be a great success. we are not historians, neither in the court of auditors nor here in parliament. we want to draw positive conclusions from the court's criticisms.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. i shall make it very briefly, mrs frassoni. we are not voting on romania's accession this week, we are voting on the report. the report notes some positive things and also some negative things. we believe that we must show romania, at this critical stage, where it needs to go in the coming weeks, months and perhaps even years to be able to join. that is why we are in favour of the debate and ultimately the vote on romania taking place this week. i would therefore like to speak on behalf of my group against postponing this report.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not i was waiting for mr watson to come, but now i'm going to do it myself. i think there was a mistake here, because the coelho report, which is on the agenda, should not have been on the agenda, but the report on the fight against transnational motor vehicle crime should have been. i therefore ask that the report now on the agenda be deferred and that mr coelho's report on the fight against transnational motor vehicle crime be placed on the agenda.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. - mr president, i have to go. i thought - and that was my request - that the coelho report on crossborder motor vehicle crime should be dealt with instead of the report that was proposed. that was my proposal, and as i understand it, mr coelho is in principle not opposed to the report being discussed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we can do what you just said. but after the debate, can we perhaps also ask you to express in a letter to the cambodian government the european parliament's grave concern and concern about these incidents? this would certainly be one way of dealing with it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the democratic political scandals surrounding the presidential elections in ukraine are richer by another scandal. since saturday, it has been known that the presidential candidate yushchenko was poisoned. dioxin poisoning was clearly established by the doctors after several investigations, and the persistent rumor holds that this dioxin poisoning was caused by oral ingestion of dioxin and that it may have occurred during a meal with the secret service. i therefore call on all the european institutions and delegations to address this dioxin attack, to draw the consequences in ukraine, to speed up the investigation and to ignore the possibility that someone is in a high position.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. europe is indeed facing fateful days, and the question that must be asked here in this house is: is the eu even prepared to tackle the enterprise we are planning? are we institutionally ready? is there a constitution that really deserves that name? the status at the moment is nice. how are the finances? where's the financial forecast? where's the british discount? where is the willingness to show real solidarity? and economically, we are experiencing tax, wage and environmental dumping all over the place. the union is in fact frozen. who would benefit from accession negotiations with turkey at this stage? the watershed, the very people who don't want that, which many of us here actually originally wanted. we shall have the united nations of europe. we already have it on a world scale, but it has very little to do with the eu. it would benefit the united states in its very specific constellations, it would benefit the military-industrial complex, it would benefit the big investors, and this at a time when we are dealing with the greatest redistribution of wealth in peacetime in the history of mankind. so when people say that there is nothing more that can be done, that it is too late to say no, i say: "better an end with horror than horror without end". i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of europe, but that we should be concerned about the future of europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today's debate on the inclusion of turkey shows the weakness, the uncertainty and the fragmentation of this house, which is making this decision. the division is felt by all the camps and all the political groups, and it is a division which ultimately also reflects the insecurity of the people of the union. where does this weakness come from, this uncertainty? is it because we are thinking about it too late and are becoming aware that we are defining europe, defining its borders and determining the finality of european integration with this decision, without saying so and without having discussed it with each other and without having consulted the european parliaments and without having had a corresponding public debate among our citizens? is it because we have not been able to win over the majority of european citizens to accept turkey? is it because the legitimacy of the heads of state and government, behind closed doors, without parliaments and without public opinion, to define europe is more than precarious, and even more so when one reads the european treaties? it is up to the parliaments to define europe, not the heads of state or government. they did it in 1999 behind closed doors, without consulting parliaments, without consulting the commission. that is no basis for such a dramatic step. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and has called for the immediate release of the remaining prisoners. and if it is the democratic lever and the peace dividend, why is it not our top priority to take over the balkans and transform a region of chronic crisis and war into a zone of peace? and the last argument from democracy lever: yes, if we can transform countries and states into democracies with accession...
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, if, according to the eurling report, turkey is making progress in legal, social and economic terms and is continuing along the path of democratization, then we should be pleased if this is indeed the case. the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union. but this cannot change in the slightest that turkey should never become a full member of the european union and that it will never be a truly european country. if this european parliament really wants to be the representative of the citizens of europe, it will now have to send a clear signal, since the citizens of europe, as we all know, are in the vast majority against turkey's accession to the eu. so if accession negotiations with ankara were to be opened, this will be a violation of the will of the people. the eu's experience in this area shows that the opening of negotiations means that they will eventually lead to a positive conclusion, usually even somewhat sooner than later. the turkish prime minister, mr erdogan, also leaves no doubt that for him there is only one negotiating objective, namely full membership without any reservations. the result of the open negotiations, which are often quoted, is not something ankara wants to know about. but full membership would mean that this european union would be geopolitically far outstretched and involved in the hotbeds of crisis in the middle east. it would be overburdened financially and economically, and no one would be able to finance turkey's accession to the eu. the historic cultural identity of europe would also be fundamentally called into question by the accession of an islamic country. and the imminent mass immigration of millions of young unemployed turks would certainly bring about a series of social and economic disasters. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i too would like to congratulate mr eurlings on his report. it's not an easy job. i was also once assigned to be the turkey correspondent in this house. of course, that's all the more difficult now. the european union would be making a grave mistake if, after many years of making promises to turkey, it suddenly said no now that turkey is taking its task seriously. we have helped turkey a great deal in recent months and years, and we will have to continue to help turkey. i would like to say, however, that for me one criterion is paramount: will turkey's membership make europe stronger or weaker? and we should say quite frankly and honestly: this is the europe we have to fight for as members of parliament. if turkey reforms itself, as mr schulz has said today, if it changes itself, on the question of human rights, on the question of cyprus, on the question of borders, on the question of regional cooperation - if such a turkey becomes a member of the european union, then europe will become stronger as a result. it is interesting to note, however, that the initial american euphoria over the recommendation to include turkey in europe has diminished somewhat, because the united states is no longer sure whether it really wants to see this strengthening of the european union by an independent, self-confident, independent turkey, which, however, if it joins the european union, must also distance itself from its nationalism. i am very much in favour of supporting the report and also of starting the negotiations. we must say to turkey, however, that it will be a long and difficult road, and that turkey has done a great deal in the last two or three years. i can really appreciate that and congratulate turkey, but it will take many years to give europe the assurance that a new turkey, another turkey, will join the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. turkey is a large country on the border between europe and asia, in a geopolitically sensitive area. it is in the union's interest to link turkey well with european structures. and it is clearly in turkey's interest to be integrated into european structures. turkey has therefore applied for membership many years ago. there are clear criteria for this accession to the union. they were agreed at the copenhagen summit in 1993, more than ten years ago. a candidate must meet political and economic criteria and must accept the legal status. the union must also do its homework, we must be able to expand, and we must not jeopardise what has been achieved. the commission has presented a further progress report on turkey a few weeks ago, which made some astonishing statements, particularly as regards the fulfilment by the candidate country of the political criteria for accession. progress has been made in democracy, in particular with the further reduction of military power in favour of civilian authority. there are also positive changes in the rule of law. however, corruption is still a massive problem, and people are being tortured in prisons. the fundamental rights issue continues to be a subject of massive criticism, including the poor state of religious freedom in turkey, not to mention the many minority issues that remain unresolved. and from this very mixed interim balance, the commission concludes that now is the time to start formal accession negotiations, but then to provide for possibly lasting exceptions to the rule of the common market in crucial aspects of membership. here, we are dealing with a double standard and a split tongue. turkey has either done its homework and met the political criteria or it has not. and if we are not thinking of giving turkey all the rights of membership, then we should clarify this in time and think about a privileged partnership rather than continuing to chase after the accession phenomenon. the council will have to take a very important decision on this matter at the weekend. i hope that it will follow the guidelines laid down by the european council in copenhagen, the same institution, ten years ago for this case.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what is the vote on the turkey report on 15 december about? it is not a question of rewarding the rapporteur, although he deserves my utmost respect. it is not a question of which side wins: the side which wants turkey to join without any conditions or the side which says that there must be an alternative to full membership and wants to give that alternative a name. the risk of ownership by both teams cannot be ruled out. it's not just about picking up the shouts from the audience, which are largely emotionally based. it is simply the last opportunity for the european parliament to send a final message to the heads of government in the council before they decide to open negotiations with turkey, and to make the decision as difficult as possible for them. on the one hand, we see the unquestionable desire for reform of the erdogan government, and on the other hand we see the socio-political reality, which is also the basis of political conflicts, whether the armenian or the kurdish question, which are in contradiction with our objectives and criteria. it is no coincidence that kurdish representatives in paris have just now called for autonomy for the kurdish areas in southeastern anatolia. the prospect of opening negotiations and possible eu accession could thus fuel the turkish-kurdish conflict, not ease it. the eu's borders extending to iran, iraq, syria and the caucasus will reduce the security gap to one of the most dangerous crisis regions in the world. this too must be borne in mind by the council. the accusation by the turkish leadership that the eu is imposing special conditions on turkey in the negotiations must also be thoughtfully justified, because it is not the eu that wants to join turkey, but the other way around. the mood before the decision on accession negotiations could not be worse. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. we in parliament should take the opportunity to make this message clear before 17 december, because if it turns out that full membership is not achievable, there must be other options that anchor turkey in european structures.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already done so. with europass, we have created an additional instrument which can be helpful, also in the implementation of the lisbon strategy, which we are discussing a lot. we know that it has fallen far behind and that we should present it much more advanced than it is. and although this europass is a soft form of evidence of qualifications and competences, which is not backed by any compulsion, it is very important and helps young and mobile people who are in training and spend training periods abroad to obtain a transparent, understandable, clear and more or less comparable evidence of their achievements, qualifications and competences throughout the eu. we are now seeing the transparency we have always talked about. at the same time, europass is intended to provide prospective employers within the european union with an overview of experience and training certificates. the extended document collection, which is known to consist of a cv, proof of mobility and other documents, is a standardised additional instrument. this new framework, which ensures that in future new documents in the field of information technology, for example, can be included in the european portfolio, is very important because there are always new things in education that we must then flexibly adopt in europass. i'm very grateful for this flexibility. i would also like to point out the benefits of stays abroad and believe that the documents should not only contain mere periods of stay and technical listings, but that intercultural learning and social inclusion should also be explicitly mentioned in the documents and be traceable. the eu is an open mobile space. it encourages and demands mobility. i therefore asked for a mobility guide for citizens. unfortunately, it has now become a "mobility guide if necessary". i ask that this 'if' be used very often, because i believe that it really shows citizenship. i also believe that the national agencies for europass should be integrated into existing agencies and these should be expanded to pool the experience, activities and networks of existing institutions. we should also start an information campaign. january 1 is just around the corner, and there is still a lot of ignorance. it is therefore urgent that mobility should also be mobilised.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to join in the thanks to the rapporteur, mrs novak, who has done a very excellent, prompt and, above all, pragmatic job. i would also like to thank the commission for this initiative. this dossier in particular offers a great many positive points of reference for the european citizen, especially for our young people. through initiatives like this, we can show young people that the community is making a real difference in their lives. this is the kind of citizenship policy we really need. the present text is the result of a long process, and above all not yet the end of it, since the commission itself clearly states that the development possibilities and potential should be preserved for the future, and the openness of the process is enshrined in the document itself. there have been concrete initiatives in the field of education in the 1960s and 1970s. the aim has always been to increase the quality and mobility of people in education without seeking to harmonise european education policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. these initiatives are particularly important for citizens from countries with many borders and smaller territories in order to participate in the european single market. the aim must therefore be to introduce further improvements, which means cutting red tape, including the involvement of the social partners and making it easier and cheaper to handle, especially documents. the further exchange of young people undergoing training must be encouraged at all levels, including financial ones. only in this way can we achieve the lisbon objective and, above all, increase the satisfaction of our citizens with the community. a few words to end: in recent years, more than 200 000 young people have already taken part in these mobility programmes, and this is the way it should continue.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we all have to face a great contradiction in europe, but the commission in particular is naturally called upon to do its part to reduce it. on the one hand, there is the attractiveness of the european union to the outside world - think of ukraine, the south caucasus, turkey, which has just been mentioned, but also migration, the fact that everyone or many people want to go to europe, as a state or as individual citizens. and on the other hand, we have the dissatisfaction, the disappointment, the bad mood in europe itself. in many cases the vice-president of the commission will have to deal with this herself in her strong public relations work. but the whole commission and parliament must also work to overcome this contradiction. this is of course linked to the fact that many citizens - and this has already been mentioned by my predecessors - often feel that the european model is not being worked on in a positive way, by strengthening and modernising it, as we wanted to say in the resolution we are going to vote on, but rather that it is being dismantled. i shall not say whether that is so. but the feeling is that social rights are being curtailed, social opportunities are being curtailed, and on the other hand there are not enough jobs to earn enough money and financial resources for one's own life, the life of one's family. i believe that the endangerment of the social model or the european model in the eyes of the citizen endangers the whole of the european union. even where globalisation or new competitive conditions, which have nothing to do with the european union, threaten this situation, these people's living conditions, the european union is often blamed. we must therefore do everything in our power to make lisbon a real success, so that citizens can find their way back to this european model. so it is not just about abstract values, but very concrete values. because the services directive has already been mentioned: i think that as it has been put forward, it is a very good example of how citizens can come to such an opinion. many people are afraid that not only their social rights and workers' rights are being eroded, but also their consumer rights, because the principle may be that the lowest consumer standard will prevail in the future and become the european standard, rather than a medium or perhaps the highest consumer standard. i would therefore ask you to consider whether, even though it is our task now to work on this, we should not in future proceed differently from the principles laid down in the services directive. one final point: we all agree that we need to cut red tape and overregulation. but if you look at the legal opinions on the legal interpretation of this service directive, you will see that this is mere speeches and that is the reality. i would therefore ask you, mr president barroso, and your commission, very strongly, to give this european model of economic and social policy more support and more strength.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i have six thoughts. first: restore the confidence of the citizens of europe in the europe of peace, freedom and justice. what do i mean? everyone must respect the common rules. everyone has to abide by the contracts. everyone must implement the decisions. the commission must make greater use of its right of initiative, the commission must increase its control. the rules are sufficient, but the political will and determination are lacking. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. mr president of the commission, withdraw the almunia proposal for the stability and growth pact because it weakens the commission and community law. we must strengthen the common rules. my second point is that you should not base your behaviour on the sinners, but should take initiatives to remove the unanimity in the council so that the blockers do not determine your success or failure. my third point is to make europe more competitive in the spirit of the lisbon and barcelona strategies. take initiatives to remove all barriers, blocks and distortions of competition in the internal market. we need a stronger commission, we need more europe, and we need more initiatives from the commission. fourthly, we must not only train researchers, but also let them do applied research. fifthly, we must make europe safer and stronger in the world - a common foreign and security policy, a common defence policy, a common policy on asylum and migration, a strengthening of the united nations. we do not need a german veto in the security council, but a permanent member of the european union in the security council. (applause from the centre) sixthly, let us make the citizens of europe informed participants. the european consciousness is not sufficiently present in the member states. the member states are pursuing a dual strategy and are thus weakening european awareness. let us make it impossible to blame the eu by putting forward a european information and communication strategy after each summit, mr president of the commission, so that your results are not nationalised. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the commission, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the guidelines for strategic planning must also cover the common agricultural policy. the decisions of the luxembourg council apply to this area. in june 2003, a comprehensive reform of the common agricultural policy was adopted, a reform which has yet to be implemented in some member states, a reform which has brought about profound changes and has led to much debate and uncertainty, and is still leading to this. the next major step is the reform of the sugar market regulation. but after that, there's a certain calm that must come. this is the only way to ensure that our farmers have a secure future. this must also be clearly reflected in the strategic planning. agriculture needs predictable timescales, and politics must also provide a certain degree of certainty if it is to be credible. mr president of the commission, in the context of the financial perspective for 2010 to 2013, we must be clear about what we want from this europe. in an enlarged europe, a balanced cohesion and structural policy is more important than ever to counter structural disparities. the rural development programme now under way is all about financing the second pillar and thus preserving an active and attractive rural area, which cannot exist without farmers who are economically active. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are also concerned about our regions and their towns and cities. europe needs clear objectives and strategies. citizens also expect us to offer concrete solutions to the sensitive issues of immigration, asylum and security. if all these questions are answered, then it must be budgeted accordingly. any other approach is not serious and will not bring us closer to the citizens of europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. more, more, more is said from all sides when you listen to the debate. i am also in favour of more, but i am in favour of more efficiency and transparency when it comes to the lisbon strategy and security policy. the money would be there if we were to take care of the great sacred cows hidden in the parliamentary budget and, of course, above all in the great budget of 100 billion. two points for that. transparency would also mean that it would be made clear how political parties are really to be financed. the first reading did not give a clear answer to this question. transparency would also mean that the secretarial allowance, which is now to be increased backwards, would be put to the vote again. unfortunately, that is not the case. it is not surprising, however, that the perception is that the budget is a market game and that you, commissioner, are quoted as someone who would have given up a billion euros an hour. in this form, you cannot create a solid budget, which requires education and change.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. is it not the case that the decision-making mechanisms are quite similar to those that were in place in moscow at the time, only that it is now the lobbyists? and if you then turn it around and say: i understand that the citizens of europe need money, and then look at the priorities and say: yes, i really want to have a doubling of the education budget, i want a doubling of the research budget - how, dear commissioner, do you make this transparent? how do you account for that? if you fail to make it clear what we need all this for, you will certainly be denied the consent of the citizens and europe will be driven ever closer to the abyss.
the commission has already done so. i would like to begin by advocating greater seriousness, seriousness and objectivity. we have debated the 2005 budget this morning and many speakers have called on the council to take the budget more seriously. if we reach an agreement with the council on the one hand and on the other hand we are already talking about the budgetary overrun, then the figures we have agreed on are not serious. many people are already suspecting that we may not be able to do that. i am afraid the same thing when i have been following the media over the last few days on the subject of the financial perspective. i fear that there is a similar lack of seriousness in the debate on turkey and other current issues. i would ask you, commissioner, not to look on but to take the political initiative more strongly. the budget and the financial perspective are work programmes in figures, and today we have begun to discuss the political programme for the next five years. we are calling for a strengthening of competitiveness, the implementation of the lisbon and barcelona priorities, the strengthening of the role of young people in the world and the fight against terrorism, enlargement to include croatia, bulgaria and romania, a new neighbourhood policy and the strengthening of the information and communication policy. i ask you: is everything we have discussed today on additional responsibilities and measures really contained in the old commission's proposal? or should the new commission not make its mark and demand political projects? so far, we've only heard behind the scenes that there's a constant debate about the cap. we have to stop playing with numbers, we have to talk about what we have to do and how much it will cost, and then we can talk about own resources and the division of tasks and who has to do what.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in this house we hear about the progressive democratization of turkey, and we ourselves, by voting on this, are distancing ourselves from democracy and transparency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. who's who hiding from? the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. we are simply copying the council's behaviour and, in the end, we ourselves become hostages to the dictum that it is too late to say no. no, it's certainly not too late for that. europe would be thrown into the abyss if turkey joined. we can prevent this by voting no today, openly and transparently!
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! i would like to say a few words today as rapporteur for croatia, a country which has received very little mention, although i hope that a positive and important decision will be taken at the european council meeting. now, it's the case that every reporter looks at the country they're covering a little bit like their own child. but this is not just a decision for croatia, i believe it is a decision for the whole region. it is very important that the council should take a positive decision here, particularly in the interests of stability and security, which have already been mentioned. it would be a signal that every country in the balkans, if it makes the necessary efforts and meets the criteria, will also have the opportunity to become a member of the european union, as was promised just now in thessaloniki. i believe that in croatia both the previous government and this government - in different political compositions - have done a great deal to prepare well and to take the steps towards meeting the criteria that we really have to look at very closely in all cases. there is one reason for the obstacle, and it is certainly a more serious one. this is the cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia in the hague, which is at least alleged but not full and not sufficient. and it is certainly rightly demanded that every country - croatia, but of course also the other countries, i am thinking in particular of serbia - should be made to cooperate with the hague here. however, i think that the council should really acknowledge in principle and in the foreground the positive steps that croatia has taken and that this should also be reflected in the council decision. secondly, i hope that the government will not only make a declaration but also do everything possible to bring gotovina, the incriminated general, before the hague tribunal. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. finally, mr president, i believe that if mr gotovina is the patriot he claims to be, he should not be holding his country hostage. then he really must go to the tribunal in the hague, because it would be a shame if the fate of an important country like croatia depended on the fact that one man decides not to face justice. i hope, therefore, that in all these circumstances a positive signal will be sent to the hague.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today's debate on the european summit at the weekend has become a continuation of our discussion on turkey, which we started on monday evening and which we will conclude with the vote on the eurlings report immediately after this debate. it is good that we in this house are devoting a great deal of time to the subject of turkey. our citizens expect this from this parliament too. but people back home also expect us to base our debate and our decision on a serious analysis of the facts. i have my doubts. what has been said here today on turkey's accession has little to do with the reality in that country. the dutch presidency of the council explicitly stated in the introduction that turkey fulfils the political conditions for accession, that is to say, that turkey is a democratic state governed by the rule of law, in which fundamental rights, and in particular the rights of minorities, are respected. the president of the commission has apparently read the commission's latest progress report more closely. he now says that turkey is sufficiently fulfilling the political criteria. this is apparently to say that torture is no longer systematically used in turkish prisons and that women can hope to have equal rights with men in turkish society. it is a principle on which many of my colleagues in this house seem to be building their hopes, particularly those on the left of the centre, who i suspect will also be in the majority. a secular turkey governed by the rule of law would strengthen europe's community of values, as we have heard from mr schulz, mr cohn-bendit and others. that's right, i did. a secular, rule-of-law turkey would indeed strengthen europe's community of values. but the turkey we have is still far from these values. if we do not admit this to ourselves, we are not only deceiving our citizens, but we are also jeopardizing the level of stability and security that we have jointly achieved in the union. let us not go down the road of automatic accession, at any rate not when and where the facts do not really justify it!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the rapporteur has spoken about the internal market. the internal market must be measured by its humane operation and its consequences not only for people but also for living things. the transport of animals is a clear thing. who benefits from long-distance transportation? they are benefiting from mass animal husbandry, a form of animal husbandry which will not advance europe. we need not only good measures but strict controls, and here the attitude of the member states on this subject must be openly described as a real disgrace. and for these checks we need an infrastructure, and this infrastructure includes resting places that we must provide, charging stations that must be approached when a violation of the animal transport regulations takes place. it must be forced! and we, parliament and the commission, must jointly commit the member states to finally putting a new agricultural strategy into practice.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make one further point on the rules of procedure: we voted until 2 p.m. yesterday. it was always the custom in this house to vote from 12 noon to 1:30 p.m. because of course we have many obligations at lunchtime too, and our guests are waiting. i would ask that the bureau should make a rule in this connection, as we did in the last parliamentary term, that the votes should end at 1.30 p.m. i would also like to take this opportunity to wish everyone in the room a merry christmas and a happy new year.
