mr president, commissioner, the egyptian plane crash has shocked people in europe. the tragic deaths of these mostly french tourists have made it clear that there are still inadequate safety measures. the public is wondering how it is possible that an aircraft which is not allowed to fly in swiss airspace can fly in other european countries, when the safety regulations are international, known to everyone and should be applied by everyone. the commission took the initiative more than six years ago and i am very pleased that the commissioner has mentioned the history again. unfortunately, we are still waiting for the directive. a dispute between spain and the united kingdom over gibraltar has delayed this directive for years. after 9/11, there was a new awareness of the importance of safety, especially because aviation was in crisis. as rapporteur on the safety of third country aircraft, i am pleased with the speed with which at least this parliament acted and accepted a number of amendments at first and second reading which we now have to discuss further. i am very pleased that the commissioner is pledging her support to parliament and i am confident that the trialogue will be very fruitful. i hope that the council will also give a very positive answer. the main disagreement between the commission and the council concerns information to the public. we also felt that the commission was rather reticent in this respect. as rapporteur, i believe that we must ensure that every european citizen who board an aircraft at one of our airports has the assurance that this aircraft has been checked against the same standards and that the regulations are also being respected. that is why we must have more european solutions, and the european civil aviation agency must also be able to play its full part in ensuring that our citizens are informed. we have to ask ourselves whether keeping data anonymous is not a culpable omission at a certain point. i cannot accept that a society that is labelled as unsafe is not made public. i am sorry that i had so little time, but i thank the commissioner and his colleagues for the support they have given to this report and for the initiative they have taken. i'll be sure to listen.
president. - i too would like to express my condolences to the victims of the plane crash in egypt. people are worried. there is also an airport in my region which has apparently been used or is being used by this airline. so it's clear that we need to know whether the rating of all the planes that fly with us is good or not. we have mrs maes' report on aircraft from third countries, in which we are happy to ask for our own inspections, the possibility of grounding aircraft and the exchange of information between member states, and so on. we are now in the mediation phase and i hope we can use this mediation to tighten things up a bit. one of the questions that has been raised after the accident in egypt is: what do we tell the public, what is in the public domain? it is clear that the council has watered down the questions which parliament had on this point. i would ask the council to come back to this in the light of recent events. it is obvious that we do not throw any detail into the public, because then it will take on a life of its own. but if an airline is banned from a country, people have a right to know so that they do not fly with that airline again. i think we should have clear rules on that. i also read that in france there is a law coming into force which requires a tour operator to tell its customers which airline it will be flying with, so that people know with whom they are flying. i think that is the passenger's right and if there is a suspicion against a company the customer can make that link himself. why should that not become an eu rule? i also read that the americans, the federal aviation administration, are carrying out a check on the quality of checks in third countries. what mr simpson has called the role of the flag state. it reminds me of shipping safety. do we have any control over the quality of the flag state? couldn't we do what the americans are doing here? i think that the quality that icao offers is good, but we have to apply our own system to it and do what the americans do. i do not think it is a bad idea for us europeans to go there to see if the quality standards are being respected. finally, i read that there are quite a few differences between national controls and that one country is a little more stringent than the other, or at least assessed on different bases. i would like to see a flight ban established on the same basis everywhere, because one can be too strict and the other not strict enough. in any case, we now have a european aviation safety agency and it might be good if an independent audit was carried out on the different ways in which aircraft safety is assessed in the member states. i hope, madam commissioner, mr president, madam rapporteur and other colleagues involved in this conciliation, that we can use the conciliation procedure on your report to ensure that the points which parliament has insisted on in the light of recent events - and unfortunately our decision-making is often, or too often, disaster driven - are tightened up. i hope that you, mrs maes, and your colleagues in parliament will be able to pull a few more things out of the fire.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to wish mr pex and the other rapporteurs well in their work. we have a saying: many little ones make a big one. so many small pieces of pollution are just as important as a big disaster in the long run. we too have long ago established the polluter pays principle. i think we should now say that the polluter is also punished, because i think that is very right. i agree with the text adopted by the committee on transport that it should be made clear that we are dealing with illegal intentional discharges and not so much with discharges due to accidents with damage, because an accident is something different from an intentional discharge. i think we should make this distinction. mr piecyk has just pointed out that there are already a lot of guidelines. for example, the directive on port reception facilities, which my country has still not transposed. i think that is a disgrace and i think we should do it as soon as possible. we're a year ahead now. we also need to evaluate how it is used, how the ships themselves react to it and whether we need to make any changes to see if the directive is working and how it is working. i would also like to refer to the monitoring directive and the use of the black box. we need to look at how we can use the black box to find out who is polluting, where it is polluting and, possibly, how much it is polluting. i think that should also be considered, because this is a directive which may also be relevant in this context. i am very happy that the discharge at sea is included in the text and that we do not limit ourselves geographically but consider the sea as a common heritage that belongs to everyone wherever pollution occurs. of course, everything is up or down with the control and the way we catch a polluter. i think that a european coastguard could help in this or at least, before we get there, better cooperation between national coastguards, checks on ship accounts and such things. if we can use a satellite to read the license plate of a car of some suspect in some country, why shouldn't we eventually use this kind of technology to detect eviction crimes as well. for example, when the tricolor was recovered, other ships took advantage of the accident to discharge oil, because it was found that the oil that had washed up was not from the tricolor but from other ships. in any case, we must make sure that we distinguish between accidental pollution and intentional pollution. there is unrest in shipping circles about the treatment of ship crews in some cases. i find what is happening to the captain of the prestige rather unpleasant and i hope we can speak to the man again soon. i read that there has now been a shipwreck in karachi and that the crew are being criminalised. we have to be careful about that. you are right, we have worked hard in the last term and we have done many things. sometimes it was frustrating. before the erica package was even there, we had the prestige, and that's very frustrating. but i think, commissioner, that parliament and the commission have been able to do some good things despite the council's opposition, and i hope that we can do the same in the next parliament. (applause from the left)
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to congratulate the three rapporteurs on their report. the last christmas holiday saw a remarkable increase in the number of dead seabirds found on the beaches of the north sea. this is no coincidence. every winter, there are more illegal discharges at sea around this time, and they are made by captains who are not careful and who know that there is less supervision during this period and that the oil does not leave a clear trail because of the winter storms. that is why this report is so important. europe must act. the greens/efa group supports the pex report we are now discussing because it is a significant improvement on the draft directive, which shows that europe is finally taking a strong stand against the criminalization of environmental crimes at sea, also outside territorial waters. we therefore reject the arguments of the council, which says that this subject falls under the third pillar. how will the commission react to this? what will be the commission's reaction if the council formally refuses to accept that criminal sanctions should be included in the directive? the prestige accident is not unusual in this regard, because we also want to take action against port authorities for environmental damage caused when a ship in distress is denied access to a port or a safe haven. in order to make prosecution possible, a european coast guard is necessary. if you say "a", you must say "b". we shall be voting tomorrow on a proposal from my group to link this pex directive with the bouwman directive on port facilities. that way, we can strengthen the traceability of the pollutants. we also ask for your support for other amendments, such as the involvement of emsa in the implementation of this directive.
mr president, on behalf of the environment group, i would also like to pay tribute to the political and intellectual work that philippe herzog has been able to accomplish in this house over many years, and in particular in the context of this report. as several of my interlocutors have already said, the main purpose of this own-initiative report is to clarify the terms of the debate, and in particular to ensure that there is more legal certainty, financial guarantees and an evaluation requirement in the context of competitive tendering operations taking place in the european union. i would like to say that the greens will support the amendments which have been tabled again in plenary to return to the original spirit of the proposal tabled by mr herzog. i would like to add two points to the debate. firstly, i would remind the european parliament that the convention also discussed this issue and concluded in its work that a legal basis - other than that currently provided for in the treaties - was necessary. so if the european parliament were to vote against the convention's position tomorrow, we would have an interesting conflict of political legitimacy between the convention and parliament. secondly, i would add that what we environmentalists have observed in this debate is that there is a curious alliance between those who advocate maximum subsidiarity - which is also advocated by philippe herzog and our group - and those who consider that there can be no obstacles to competition. the alliance therefore means that, in the end, there is no agreement in the european parliament, just as there is no agreement in the council to move forward with a framework legislation. so i would just like to ask the following question: who is winning in this debate, beyond the speeches we make? it is not, of course, the supporters of subsidiarity, but those who defend free competition without barriers. the fact is that we are voting month after month on sectoral directives, and we see that the court of justice has difficulty justifying public interest missions. the result is a strengthened european model, which is largely based on fiscal and social competition between the territories. if we want to compensate for this somewhat, we need more legal certainty to guarantee the financing of public service missions, whatever the definition of public service missions in the member states. i therefore call on everyone to reflect on this dubious alliance between those who claim to define, in their own country and region, the tasks of public interest and those who swear by free competition for and against everything. we agree with the former, but we ask them to break the alliance with the latter.
the single market, mr president, is undoubtedly the most important economic achievement of the process of european unification. europe has given us a single, unhampered trading area with 375 million consumers today and 450 million in the future. over the past decade, the market has been increasingly extended to other sectors, such as telecommunications, postal services, transport and energy. the european market is a socially adjusted free market, which means that the markets in these sectors have been opened up in a gradual and orderly manner - and successfully. the result is more competition and modern services at lower prices and of better quality. this liberalization has certainly not been detrimental and the example should serve as an inspiration for other sectors. the commission's green paper is certainly not premature and is highly commendable. it is indeed necessary to examine whether we cannot apply the operation of the internal market and the opening up of frontiers to other services of general interest, and above all economic ones. where can government monopolies be further broken down while maintaining the guarantee that every citizen gets the best service at an affordable price? i am thinking, along with many others, of the water supply, waste management and even information sectors. the debate on this subject must be conducted not only here but also with national or even regional authorities, which are now often in charge of these sectors. the results of this wide-ranging, interesting and, indeed, fruitful debate should be used to examine whether and how european legislation can be useful, especially for citizens.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, of course, a big thank you to mr herzog as rapporteur for the quality of the work and the opportunity he gives us today to discuss the subject of services of general interest. even if we are not in the context of a legislative procedure, the debate we are having today is fundamental, because it concerns the border between the market area, the competition that must prevail there, and this other area where solidarity, equality and democracy, and even social cohesion, must prevail. it is fundamental because our european model, the one that everyone envies us, and the most basic rights of citizens, enshrined in particular in the charter of fundamental rights, are at stake. at the level of european citizens, associations, trade unions and local authorities, there is great concern because the various experiences of liberalisation or privatisation, and i will only mention the one in britain, have had rather negative consequences. we therefore propose to make substantial amendments to this report, which is in an absolutely unacceptable state. first, we propose a serious, public, pluralistic and contradictory assessment of the evolution of services of general interest, for example through an observatory of services of general interest. and besides, we find it difficult to understand the opposition of the right to this proposal if, as its members are loudly claiming, liberalisation has really had only positive effects. the ambiguous criteria used to distinguish economic activities from non-economic activities and to guarantee the subsidiarity claimed by everyone, make it necessary to expressly exclude certain sectors - education, health, social housing - from the scope of application of the competition rules. on the other hand, municipalities and other local authorities must be protected in their democratic choice of how to manage certain services - for example water and waste - according to local needs. finally, of course, the member states, their subdivisions and local authorities are responsible for services of general interest, gis, hence the need for a framework directive which could really establish the principles common to gis. it is the will, at a given moment, to protect citizens: this is how we can understand a certain europe.
- mr president, i have already had the opportunity to express to commissioner lamy, at a committee meeting, my disappointment at the new proposals from the commission and, finally, at the position of the council which endorsed these proposals. after the strong words he had spoken in the aftermath of the cancun failure, i expected that we would be more in line with a proposal for a thorough revision of the international trading system, rather than a simple tactical repositioning. instead of a strategic change, however, what is being discussed today is a tactical repositioning. on the singapore issues in particular, commissioner lamy points to the commission's greater flexibility, which was manifested at the very end of the cancun process and, in my view, too late. but is it still about flexibility today? i must remind you, however, that the doha declaration called for unanimous and explicit agreement on the terms of the negotiations on these subjects. we know that such an agreement is out of the question in the present circumstances. the poorest countries in the group of 90 reaffirmed their opposition to the opening of negotiations on the singapore issues. i think it is clear that these countries have nothing to look forward to for their development from such negotiations; their priorities are not those, and we can understand them. these countries are not equipped technically and humanely to play an effective role in such negotiations, which would only add to a schedule that everyone recognizes as already very busy. i think that by temporarily dropping, or at least putting in parenthesis, the singapore issues today, the european union would send a significant and strong signal to the group of 90 to show them that we are sensitive to their concerns. this would even be strategically wise, since it would put the european union in a more positive position in agricultural matters: we would have more room for manoeuvre. as for the rest, as regards agriculture, the framework of the world trade organisation, in my opinion, is not adequate to deal with the rights and duties of everyone. it would be essential and urgent to relaunch a process of dialogue with a body such as the fao, so that food security and the protection and development of the rural environment can be discussed in a calm manner. i believe in particular that an urgent issue such as the cotton issue, which was put on the table in cancun, should be given top priority by the european union and i thank the commissioners for taking this into account.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). it is therefore good that the european commission is once again making efforts to restart the negotiations which are currently under way. the proposed development round must not fail, it must be completed successfully. after all, there's a lot at stake. the risk of a complete erosion of the world trade organization and the multilateral trading system is latent. bilateral and regional trade agreements are not an alternative in an increasingly globalised world and a system that has contributed to stable and sustained economic growth for almost 55 years now. it is therefore high time that, in addition to the substantive discussions, which we welcome, the working methods of the world trade organisation should be improved. negotiating and deciding by consensus in a forum of 148 members requires procedures that are modern, simple and efficient, and that is exactly what the wto procedures currently lack. i remain firmly convinced that the world trade organisation is more necessary than ever, because for the european union in particular, further liberalisation of world trade and the removal of barriers to trade are crucial to improving economic growth and employment.
- mr president, commissioner, the recent statement by the us representative to the wto is perhaps the only new element we have heard since our last discussion. i think this is an interesting statement, as it seems to indicate a change in the us attitude and the possibility of resuming negotiations within the wto. it also supplements the initiatives taken by the commission itself to relaunch these negotiations. but to revive does not mean to let go, to facilitate does not mean to let go of everything and i must confess that after the speeches this morning i am a little concerned about the attitude expressed by a number of our colleagues, particularly with regard to the so-called singapore issues. we have always spoken here in the european parliament in favour of a regulated trade facilitation. we are in favour of trade liberalization with standards, with rules, and it is obvious that the singapore issues are issues which must lead the world trade organisation to establish a number of rules. it is regrettable that these do not include a number of other dimensions. i would have liked to see the social dimension integrated into this context, but in doha we were forced under pressure to abandon the relevant standards. what worries me is that today we seem to want to abandon the singapore issues. what chance do we have, if we adopt this attitude, of seeing subjects such as social matters returned to the negotiating table, if the few subjects which had been accepted as a potential basis for negotiation are now abandoned? i believe that the european union, through you, has taken a number of initiatives to make things easier. i think we should stick to that. today's debate is not about starting a doha negotiation again but about implementing all the agreements, including those that concern us in relation to the type of globalisation we want to develop.
- madam president, commissioner, iran has just experienced two earthquakes in a few weeks. the first, the bam earthquake, killed 40,000 people. the second, of a political nature, makes more than 3 000 candidates inadmissible for the elections on 20 february. is it not indecent to compare these two events, one of which is a natural disaster and the other, simply, a political-religious coup? i don't think it was. the catastrophe in bam has shocked the whole world. the european union has already provided €2.3 million in humanitarian aid and is considering further action. we will support them unreservedly and whatever happens to alleviate the suffering of the victims and to show our solidarity with all the people of iran. but the inadmissibility of 3,000 reformist candidates for the next legislative elections has stunned the world. europe, confident in the democratization process set in motion by the iranian government, had made progress in bilateral negotiations, and agreements were on the horizon. while it is not our place to dictate the policies of other countries or to interfere in their internal affairs, we reserve the right to choose our friends, those with whom we want to cooperate and those whom we trust. if the current crisis does not find a just solution acceptable to all iranian opinion, it will not affect humanitarian aid but will have a profound and lasting impact on relations between iran and the european union. it would be another catastrophe with incalculable consequences.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have a bit of a double feeling when we look at the history of nepad. the report by our colleague is positive - and we can largely agree with it - but we have some doubts, and they have to do with the experience gained recently. the nepad story was the african leaders' response to the globalization of the world economy. it is understandable, for africa is in many ways in danger of becoming the continent that is out of the prize pool, whereas everyone else is going to run out of supplies. it's a testament to vision, but it also has the downside of big plans that didn't grow from the ground up. a great fear is that nepad will eventually lead to the enrichment of those who are already rich and the challenge is to see the nepad story as not contradicting the millennium development goals, such as halving the number of poor who have to survive on less than a dollar. this is a question which cannot be solved by large trade flows, because trade has never been a guarantee of a truly equitable distribution.
commission - madam president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first report that the european parliament has adopted on cultural diversity, but it is part of a long series of ideas that complement, repeat and reinforce each other. this is precisely what makes reports like this one so important, because they remind us every time that parliament is here and that it is vigilant and not ready to be put to sleep: it is making sure that cultural diversity is a given in the internal and external policies of the european union. i would like to thank mrs prets very much for this report, which is in line with what the european parliament, as the voice of the european citizens, has always wanted. you are right, mrs prets, cultural diversity is a struggle, a daily struggle, and we are not fighting this struggle alone, we need allies. in this connection, i welcome the continuous, permanent support of the european parliament, a support which warms my heart and which does not weaken, a support which helps the commission to move forward in its actions for the implementation of the treaty in the field of cultural diversity. in this respect, madam president, the prets report invites us to reflect on the issues at stake, which are many and which mrs prets has mentioned. firstly, there are national policies, with budgets that are becoming increasingly difficult, but a part of these budgets must continue to go to culture, to its diversity, to the protection of the weakest, especially in the context of cultural production, so that what we have as great cultural wealth in europe can continue to live. then there is our foreign policy and i welcome, like all of you, this battle, not the war but the battle, which we have just won internationally by persuading a majority of the nations of the world to join us in our fight so that, in international trade too, we can preserve the cultural stakes. so yes, we need principles to follow so that the union's action, inside and outside its borders, can reflect our commitment to this cultural diversity which is our source of life. i believe that this process, which is absolutely unique in europe - which we had to invent because it was not possible to copy it, it did not yet exist anywhere else - has served as an example throughout the world. i hear this often when i travel, in countries, big and small, where people say to me, "the way you protect your minorities, the way you support your cultures, big and small, important and less important, is a way for us to go". what more beautiful thing can we give the world than to show the way forward in this preservation of cultural diversity, the preservation of what is most important to people; the way forward in the will to give priority to the heart in the market. this is what it is all about: preserving our traditions, our cultures, our talents of tomorrow, our young people who express themselves, preserving them so that, yes, they can still express themselves tomorrow. it is this human dimension of politics that we must strengthen, locally, regionally, nationally, internationally, because cultural diversity, ladies and gentlemen, is universal, and we cannot say 'my cultural diversity'. no, it is also the other person's, it is also the person who normally cannot express himself unless we help him to express himself. i think it is important that this report on cultural diversity should come right after a report on development aid. it is a good symbol because development aid also helps to preserve the culture of those who cannot afford to preserve it. so our universal action in this direction is very important. it is clear that within the union we must preserve our capacity to support our cultures through local, regional, national and european funding and the commission is committed to the full implementation of article 151 (4), which requires the horizontal consideration of cultural diversity in all other cultures. i can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that it has become a natural reflex for the commission, even for commissioners who have responsibilities in areas such as the economy, foreign trade or international affairs, to take into account the fact of cultural diversity, this fact of citizenship. so our action in this respect is very important, and, excuse me, we are not sparing our efforts in this respect. i don't have the human resources to commit to reporting on what we do. i prefer to invest the few human resources i have in action rather than in commenting on a possible action. that is why i will not be able to make any further reports, but we are in the process of making a report on cultural expenditure under the structural funds. i think this is very important because the largest expenditure within the union on culture does not come under the culture 2000 programme but under the structural funds. so i think it's very important to put the numbers on the table. i also fully agree with the need to increase diversity in our cooperation and development policies with third countries. there can be no diversity without exchange, and that in all countries and with all expressions, and i am committed - which is quite easy because they are already convinced of it - to remind the commissioners responsible for external relations every time of the importance of providing, in our external policies, a cultural component which is the human component and which is of paramount importance. i do not need to remind you of what we have been doing for many years with our acp partners, what we have started with our mediterranean partners. but what we are doing with all our partners is new and is perhaps becoming, thanks also to parliament, one of the new policies that are moving forward. i was in china recently, and what did we talk about? we talked about culture, cultural diversity. the chinese are supporting us at unesco. we also talked about education, all this with a huge country like china that is counting on europe to help preserve its cultural diversity. so you can see that we have embarked on a very important global path, which is why i am pleased that the battle has been won at unesco. it was not easy, but we at unesco have managed to persuade the nations of the world to stand with us to protect what we all hold most dear. i have no doubt that, since the general assembly of unesco decided to create an international instrument for the preservation of cultural diversity, this instrument will be born and will be a strong instrument. we will work on this, not only within europe, but also in our international relations, and as we have done to win the battle, we will continue to work to win the war. you know that we are only at the preliminary stage of these negotiations, but i must also tell you that we have sent a very strong signal to our partners with the publication, for the first time, by the commission, that is, by the whole of the european executive, of a communication to the council and parliament on the relations of the european union with unesco. this was a strong starting point for our partners, who could support us in this respect. we still have time before we can act. unesco will take some time, and i ask you to use this time to reflect in depth on the various aspects that could be developed in this future convention to listen to our interested partners, to listen to cultural professionals, to listen to the cultural industries. we must work together to define the modalities of cooperation with the successive presidents of the union who will conduct the negotiations at unesco so that the european union shows unity on this occasion. it is important that the rest of the world, the other continents, expect us to speak with one voice, that europe's cultural diversity, the example to follow, should not be scattered, that it should not be a cacophony. that is what we must work towards, ladies and gentlemen, and i would like to conclude, madam president, by expressing my satisfaction at having been able to enjoy the unfailing support of the european parliament. it has helped me immensely and the successes that have been achieved are also yours. thank you very much, you have well deserved the cultural diversity of europeans.
the committee on foreign affairs, human rights and common security and defence policy has adopted a report on the situation in the middle east. mr president, cultural diversity is a popular concept in the european union. but we tend to avoid the problem of cultural identity because it is much more sensitive, especially when it comes to definitions. that's why i want to talk about it. my ideas, along with those of my colleagues, have largely found their way into mrs prets' report, and i thank her for the way in which we have been able to work together. i therefore join the great speeches made here by both the rapporteur and mrs reding. my point is that respect for the cultural identity of a community is a prerequisite for peaceful societies. it is also a prerequisite for the integration of persons into another cultural community without leading to frustration and alienation. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. the preservation of a culture of its own should not lead to exclusion, xenophobia or racism. on the other hand, we must be aware that the market will not save diversity. we therefore need the tools and means to preserve diversity, as well as the means to ensure that cultural identity is preserved. however, languages and cultures are disappearing very rapidly and i therefore welcome the emphasis you have placed on this principle which should guide us, for example, in our relations with the developing countries. i am convinced that every community must have the opportunity to protect its own culture from oppression, for example, against colonial imperialism. respect for languages is one of the great assets of european enlargement, and we have had the pleasure of experiencing that from all our colleagues. finally, i hope that the instruments being developed at international level and those which you and the union will develop will be able to serve diversity and enable a well-understood cultural identity.
in writing. i come from a country, flanders, whose culture has been undermined for many decades by the domination of the belgian francophone. even today, the dutch-speaking culture and language, especially in the flemish region around brussels, is ignored by the numerically dominant french-speaking minority. the dutch language is also sometimes misunderstood within the union. for example, dutch disappeared as the working language of institutions such as the european trade mark office. i am therefore in a good position to know that the european institutions themselves are wrong when they talk about not respecting cultural diversity or when they say that linguistic diversity must also be respected. this report, which contains many commendable recommendations, is by no means premature, and i sincerely hope that the good intentions to protect all the languages spoken in the europe of 25 member states after the enlargement of the union will not remain a dead letter this time. i would stress that minority languages such as gaulish and breton also deserve to be nurtured with european support. europe must first sweep its own door in the field of culture before it wants to play the moral knight to the whole world.
mr president-in-office, the priorities you have set out for us today deserve general applause and the few highlights i will mention. but it is the programme, in its richness and complexity, that shows us that there is now a european programming acquis, a common heritage of ideas and objectives that increasingly make the union an institution needed by europe and the world at large: the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a programme of measures to promote the development of the regions of the community, to promote the development of the regions of the community and to promote the development of the regions of the community. in recent months, we have seen too many signs of a selfish interpretation of the european adventure, of a reduction of the union to a self-service institution, in which each country, from time to time, recalculates its membership on its own short-term objectives. the breakdown of the stability pact by france and germany, which was allowed by ecofin on 25 november, or the cross-border vetoes which prevented the launching of the european constitution are only the most striking examples of a kind of euro-egoism which must be fought immediately and forcefully, before everything becomes more difficult in a europe of 25. mr president, please make every effort to ensure that the intergovernmental conference concludes its work by adopting the constitution this semester. i am sure i can say that parliament is with him in obtaining immediately that constitution, largely based on the work of the convention, which all sincere europeanists expect. it is with the primary aim of giving new impetus to the great european project that i would like to highlight two aspects of its work programme: the first is the lack of attention paid to cohesion policies. the second is the need and urgency to build a real physical european integration, enabling mobility in all parts of its places through the creation of the european transport network. the cohesion of the whole of europe, the involvement of all regions in the sustainable european process is an expression of that solidarity which i believe is fundamental for european citizens to recognise themselves in the process we are leading. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, we welcome the irish presidency with all our hearts, because we know that it is an opportunity for europe when a small country like yours, fully aware of its european and global mission, gets to work. you are also an example for the new member states. you made your own accession a success, both for your own people and for the whole of europe. as regionalists and representatives of stateless peoples, we expect ireland to be more understanding of our aspirations to autonomy and the preservation of our own identity, as well as our desire to participate directly in european decision-making. whether we are scotland, wales, the basque country, catalonia, galicia or flanders, we expect the same respect from the union as the baltic states or the scandinavian countries. you can count on our enthusiastic support for your priority of a good european constitution and for your ambition to make europe an effective player on the world stage, for the sake of peace and sustainable development. we therefore hope that you will, for example, keep the arms trade under control and that it will be conducted in accordance with the rules of the code of conduct. ireland has a long history of dialogue with the peoples of the middle east and as a donor and partner to the countries of africa, but the millennium agenda needs to be better integrated into our daily endeavours, including as the european union. it is not a small thing to have the ambition to halve the number of poor people who have to live on less than a dollar a day by 2015. where are we on that? i could, however, also mention the other objectives. i would like to make a specific appeal here in relation to debt relief, because many poor countries are swimming in this global sea with a millstone of debt around their necks. finally, i hope that sustainable development will not be a dead letter when it comes to our own european policy on sugar, cotton or rice, because we will be judged on that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this gave rise to a cacophonous vote. should this 'mixed product' be supported, which 'emphasises the fact that liberalisation has not damaged the supply of public utilities', which 'considers that the previous liberalisation of the gas market is insufficient', while stating that the problems caused by liberalisation in certain sectors require a pluralistic and contradictory examination of the impact on employment? the rapporteur, who was standing with his flawed draft, was taken hostage by the ultra-liberal forces in this parliament and found that the proposal, all things considered, deserved our support. i, for my part, and all those who were not victims of stockholm syndrome, kept a cool head. the amendment cannot be defended and i have therefore voted against it.
mr president, the european parliament is of course pleased to see the council and the commission taking its opinion into account before the geneva session. he has expressed during this parliamentary term a number of concerns which he would like to see reflected in this session, and i will limit myself to mentioning five of them. the first is to avoid subjecting human rights to the principle of 'double standards'. the lack of denunciation of the flagrant violations of human rights in great powers such as china - torture, disappearances and the death penalty -, russia - with chechnya -, the united states - with guantanamo -, for example, would be unacceptable to public opinion. big and small must be accommodated in the same sign. secondly, the decisions of the european union and its votes must reflect the concerns that parliament has expressed through its annual reports and resolutions, and in particular the strengthening of international law as the guarantor of human rights in the world. parliament has repeatedly stressed the importance of the adoption by all countries of international conventions dealing with the abolition of the death penalty, torture and anti-personnel mines. it deplored and strongly condemned the pressure exerted by the united states on certain countries to force them not to ratify the statute of the international criminal court. it also stressed specific issues, such as violence against women and children, which you have mentioned as thematic aspects. thirdly, the denunciation of terrorism and of countries harbouring terrorists must be accompanied by the denunciation of all the abuses and violations of human rights which are being perpetrated today in many countries in the name of this struggle. the fight against terrorism is important, but it must not be conducted in defiance of international law or in violation of human rights. this concern of the european parliament, already expressed in its resolution of january 2003, will be strongly reflected in the 2003 report on human rights in the world for which i am the rapporteur. fourthly, the right to reproductive health, which concerns all services relating to sexual and reproductive life, was considered a priority in the same report. it should also be remembered that maternal and infant mortality, epidemics of sexually transmitted diseases and deaths from clandestine abortions now kill more people than any armed conflict, and that these tragic and unnecessary deaths remain the lot of the third world, especially africa. we expect the council and the commission to make a very firm commitment to this right to reproductive health. fifthly and finally, the european parliament wishes and welcomes the continuation of coordination between the commission and the council. it would like to see an ad hoc delegation attending the next session in geneva, as was the case in 2003.
- mr president, the report we are discussing is a catalogue of utopian views which, like all utopian views, have proved in practice that they do not work. first of all, migration flows are not an inevitable reality, as the rapporteur claims. it is not because he and his political friends want immigration to be an inevitable fatality. on the contrary, member states will still have the right to determine for themselves who enters the country, when and under what conditions, until further notice. and it's not because most governments are extremely lax in enforcing their own immigration and integration laws that the public is okay with it. for example, there is no democratic majority among the population for the right of foreigners to vote or for new waves of immigration, as the report advocates. it is not a matter of the member states being able to do so, but of the member states being able to do so. what legitimacy does the european union have to decide on matters which go directly against the will of the people? the discourse of rights without obligations, as unfortunately expressed in this report, has come to an end. it is outdated and urgently needs a thorough evaluation, as in the netherlands where a committee of inquiry has been set up into the integration policy pursued and where two government parties have now concluded that the hugging policy has failed. the report does not mention the socioeconomic and social problems that exist today. in flanders, for example, unemployment among people of north african origin is four to five times higher than among the native population, so that the question arises as to who is really interested in a new form of immigration. and what about the indigenous people who already don't feel at home in their own city, their own street? what about the rise of islam and the conscious reluctance to integrate? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
- mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating both the european commission and mr moraes. it is time for europe not only to look at how to limit the flow of refugees, but also to make a positive voice heard. that positive tone is necessary because we already have a very large number of migrants in our countries at the moment. the previous speaker rightly pointed out the very high unemployment among migrants. if i look at the european union figures for 2002, i see that the unemployment rate for european union nationals is 7.1% while for non-eu nationals living in the eu it is more than double that, almost 16%. and then if i look at my own country, it's 33.5%. that means that one third of the immigrants are unemployed. if i look at the governance of those countries - and i say this without wishing to be polemical, but i do want to say it because on the other hand there is very often polemic - i see that the countries with left-wing governance are doing absolutely no better than the countries with right-wing governance. the same applies, by the way, to the right to vote. i am always amazed at the ideology that some people in the european parliament promote when they are unable to translate that same ideology into policy in their own country, where they are in charge. in all these countries there is no voting right - and you may put it 77 times in your notes or in your documents - but your governments do not want voting rights and your parties do not want voting rights. it is therefore very easy to come here and advocate it without any obligation. i say this because i have tried to make the text refer to political rights in a moderate way, without directly linking the right to vote to it. it seems that for a lot of people whose countries are ruled by a left-wing government, even though they don't get it in their own country, that is still not enough. why am i now speaking specifically about employment? because work is the best way to integrate. everything else follows from that. i think that the european union and our countries are not paying enough attention to this. people who have jobs, have income, can look forward to better housing and are usually given legal status. they learn the language at work and can send their children to study in the countries in a normal way. work is therefore one of the most important ways of integration. unfortunately, we find that the european union is failing to do so. i am in favour of the solution proposed for the future, namely that we manage migration on the basis of the work we can provide. this means, of course, that we must also give jobs to the present migrants and that the management is not only focused on the future migrants. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i would also like to draw attention to another point. when it comes to highly educated migrants - and i am not speaking specifically of migrants from african countries, but of americans, for example - we never ask them to speak our language, because they end up in companies where the main language is english. it's so easy, the highly educated are supposed to know the language of the company. we have very high standards for the low-skilled - they will have to take exams in the future - and this makes it very difficult for them.
council. i thank the honourable member. in some respects i think the points that she made in the latter part of her supplementary question are matters that should be put to the domestic administrations both in ireland and perhaps in spain. i fully understand her concerns and, as she knows, we have actually discussed it. i have outlined the council's position on the issue, which was also the subject of a question to the commission.
- mr president, in my country too there is a group of people who are very concerned about these practices and who want to put an end to them. they go so far as to adopt these dogs and pay 150 euros for the adoption. there's a shelter in spain as a stopover. in the end, however, the council must turn to the member state which is being accused here, because there is indeed abuse of these dogs. it's not just about transporting the dogs. i think the council should take a stand on this and make it clear that animal rights apply throughout the union. these dogs, who later become companion animals to people in my country, deserve a fair chance and deserve respect and good treatment.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) although the report contains positive and necessary elements, it is deficient in a number of crucial areas. for example, there is no mention of the need for member states to actively implement a policy to detect illegal immigrants. the effect of the tolerance and naturalisation policies of several member states (collective or not) is that they attract more foreigners living there illegally. it is fine to release information in countries of origin to curb potential illegal immigrants, but if a country's policies remain lax (for example, by tolerating illegal immigrants occupying churches to gain media attention), it is a waste of time and effort. most illegal immigrants are not 'victims of trafficking', they have come to europe of their own free will in the belief that they can receive certain social security and other benefits in a number of member states - even though they are living there illegally. as a result, they are not the "people in danger" they are described as being. it is also an illusion to think that opening the borders to new legal immigrants in a limited number of labour market sectors will prevent illegal immigration. the attraction associated with this will always be greater than expected, and we will end up with exactly the same number of illegal immigrants as before.
mr president, we did not actually co-sign this resolution and i will tell you why. we are absolutely in agreement with the description of the misery in zimbabwe, we are also absolutely in agreement with the strongest condemnation of the mugabe regime but we have a problem with pointing the finger at the surrounding countries and saying that they should remove mugabe from power. we all want mugabe to be removed from power. we know that there is a well-structured, courageous opposition, but we expect things from the south african countries that we cannot do ourselves. what are we getting out of our own sanctions? so far nothing, and i must also tell you that the countries in the region are particularly vulnerable. it is true that violence is threatening to spread to south africa, it is true that there is land reform and that homeless but armed people are now moving to the white farms to take the law into their own hands. not just in zimbabwe, but in south africa. the land reform in zimbabwe is a disgrace. it has not ended the misery of the people, on the contrary, it has made some of the rich richer. we are very well aware of this, but we must stop pointing fingers unilaterally. we must look for effective measures. even the elephants are fleeing zimbabwe because they know that the natural parks are being plundered, that the wildlife living there is being deprived of all protection and is being slaughtered. it is not only poachers who do this, but also the people who are hunting these animals in desperation. like the people fleeing zimbabwe, they are now arriving in neighbouring countries. i therefore call for a vigorous resumption of dialogue and we must examine how we can help the south african well-intentioned regimes.
president. - no one will ever know exactly how many people were killed in the stealthy genocide in burundi. the number 300,000 is mentioned and for a small country that is a huge number, but the reality is that we do not know. the murder of the nuncio is one of the last acts of senseless violence. the violence has been reduced by the signed peace agreements, but the situation is very unstable. the fnl remains outside the agreements and is strengthened by the continued resistance of all the dissatisfied members of the previous rebel movements who did agree to them. there are the returning armed militias from the congo, the many other armed gangs that are running around, and the huge quantities of small arms that are circulating among the population because the government has distributed them to the population itself, supposedly for protection. the inclusion of the last rebel group, which we are calling for, is of course an obstacle, because what is the real motivation? those who have agreed to the peace agreements must then give up their seats in the government, and those seats are already a strong minority of the hutu group in relation to the tutsi group. i know that these are all very sensitive issues in burundi, but it is obvious that the groups which have agreed to peace should themselves be bringing in the new members of the peace agreements at the expense of their own seats. you understand that in africa this is a very difficult matter. there must be a real human rights agenda in burundi, because there are still scandalous human rights abuses. finally, the peacekeeping force which we are sending on behalf of the united nations is probably needed above all because the african peacekeeping force does not have enough resources and cannot act effectively enough. perhaps we can improve that already, because that is very necessary. perhaps that will reduce the need for a foreign peacekeeping force.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to thank them for the way in which they have worked to promote the common interests. it is clear that we in this house, from left to right, are calling for more european powers to guarantee security. i think our national governments will have to answer for this. if there is ever an accident, it is because the national lines are still so strong. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we often use the principle of subsidiarity - and i am a great supporter of this principle. but that subsidiarity must also apply to the top. if it is necessary for the sake of aviation safety, the national authorities must be prepared to cede competence to the european union. otherwise, this is irresponsible. i have just had a conversation with the federal authorities of the united states, where no less than 48,000 people under one federal umbrella are active in air safety control. i think that the degree of security should not depend on our great love of diversity. if there is one area where diversity should not apply, it is in the area of safety control. we therefore agree with you that we are taking a step forward today with the single sky, but in fact we should have been able to take this step 20 years ago and we should be able to go much further today than we have done at the moment. we are not, of course, blind to the improvements that have been made in the negotiated arrangements. at the same time, we would like to stress that when an accident like the one at lake constance occurs, it is a further incentive for us to move on to these cross-border space blocks in order to avoid more accidents of this kind happening as a result of poor communications. all in all, commissioner, mr president, we are faced with an improvement which is still too weak. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a priority for this entire parliament.
the president, the president-in-office and the commissioner. the report is a positive response from parliament to the commission's outline of relations between the eu and the united nations. we agree with that, but we would like to stress a number of specific points. firstly, and certainly not in contradiction with the report, we want to emphasize the institutional reforms that are necessary. we must be able to reform the security council. africa, asia and latin america must be allowed to become permanent members. it is not just the rich and the rich countries that have the say in the world. while two thirds of humanity live in poverty. secondly, the veto system must be reviewed and it must be used only in the event of a threat - a real threat - to peace and in the event of aggression. thirdly, the european union must become a full member of the security council and the general assembly. we want effective multilateralism and we believe that this requires an effective united nations organization, capable of taking effective decisions. in the past this has not always been the case, and then the consequences of this have been tragic for the world. i am reminded of the bad mandates sometimes given to soldiers who are called upon to act on behalf of the united nations in peacekeeping operations. they are given such a rigid mandate that they cannot be operational. i am reminded of the tragedy in rwanda, which kofi annan recently recalled. fortunately, things have gone better in the congo, but we hope that the united nations will continue to work in a more transparent and, above all, democratic way.
the un peacekeeping missions in east timor, sierra leone and liberia, the reconstruction of afghanistan, as well as humanitarian work for children and the fight against hunger and disease, all demonstrate that the un continues to play an essential role in promoting peace and security. i also join kofi annan in calling for a radical reform of the un: today, this organization is far too bureaucratic and not adapted to the geopolitical realities of the 21st century. the eu, which together with its member states contributes almost 50% of the un budget, should take the lead in this reform. the eu must be able to speak with one voice in the security council. it is commendable that the eu continues to urge the un to assume its responsibility for conflict prevention and peacekeeping. but it can 't be just lip service . the risky operations in africa have to be carried out by poorly equipped and unmotivated troops from bangladesh, pakistan or india. this sometimes creates more problems than it solves! why can't the eu as such deploy more troops under the un flag with a un mandate? i therefore call for a european union which will take the lead in the reform of the united nations, not just with loud statements and symbolic contributions, but above all with concrete commitments and real solidarity on the ground.
- mr president, when i was a law student, my teachers, including my father, taught me the fundamental difference that german philosophy has created in learning to distinguish between the sollen - the world as it should be - and the breast - the world as it is. this morning, in adopting the resolution on relations between the european union and the united nations, it is quite possible that our parliament has discerned the contours of the world as it should be. unfortunately, it is clear that the same resolution does not take sufficient account of the world as it is, for better or for worse. in particular, it would be weakening the world, and it would be weakening europe, to renounce, without guarantee, the permanent membership of britain and even more so that of france. that is why i voted against.
mr president, in the context of its legislative activities, the european parliament must play the difficult and delicate role of controller of the executive in all its forms in the community. in the performance of his duties he must appreciate the gravity of the inevitable failings which human nature causes at all times and in all places, he must exercise serious control but without stifling initiative and, above all, he must act in the general interest by excluding any partisan bias. unfortunately, the european parliament has not been able to meet these requirements, either in the eurostat case or in the case of the committee of the regions. that is why i voted against.
- mr president, by adopting today the new resolution on the draft european constitution, the european parliament is acknowledging without saying that it has gone astray in asking the italian presidency to do the impossible, as was the proposal we adopted in december. the european parliament would be enlarged by explicitly recognising this, but nobody is perfect. it also implies that the european parliament should at least examine the written results of the naples conclave before deciding on their value, which it did just now, since these written results were submitted to the heads of state and government by the italian presidency. i regret that after almost two months parliament has still not thought of doing so. however, the draft constitution remains bad and dangerous and i still see no reason to wish it to be adopted either at easter or at trinity. that is why i voted against.
mr president, both mr philip claeys and i electronically registered ourselves for the 1 minute speaking list this morning and it now appears that we are not on the list.
mr. chairman, i have an electronic confirmation on the computer that i've been enrolled.
mr president, on the occasion of the visit of the chinese president to france, the french foreign minister, dominique de villepin, has come to brussels to advocate the lifting of the arms embargo against china. france is dreaming of increasing the turnover of its arms industry by concluding lucrative contracts with beijing. that's why the chinese president was received in france like an emperor. human rights were not discussed. apparently, the french president doesn't know where the oppressed tibet is. if you can sell your friend dassault's mirage planes, you'd better not think about a bunch of annoying monks. jacques chirac, who can make such a lyrical plea for greater tolerance in his own country, no doubt also did not have time to read the reports of the various human rights organizations, which every year again denounce censorship, arbitrary arrests, overcrowded prisons, re-education camps and the lack of freedom of expression. jacques chirac even went so far as to describe the forthcoming referendum in taiwan as an act of aggression against china. we must be able to accept that the european union can do nothing but trade with china, but supplying arms is another matter. we therefore fully agree with mr watson when he says that this arms embargo is one of the last means available to the european union to force the chinese communist dictatorship to respect human rights. (applause from the left)
i would like to congratulate you, madam rapporteur, particularly on the tone of your positive and critical remarks in your explanatory statement. i have a little more difficulty with certain euphoric elements which i will touch on in the text itself. the new rules of procedure of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly have created structures which allow for a genuine and fruitful dialogue. mrs kinnock has made this point at length. now that it's a world model, that seems a little premature. it can undoubtedly become a world model in the future in the field of development cooperation and in the field of open and transparent dialogue between equals, including on democracy and the protection of human rights, so that we can also reach binding agreements with each other. we're not always that far along. structures are there and must now be used effectively on both sides. this will require an increase in resources on the acp side and it may also require a change in mentality on both sides, because the eu partner will also change after the accession of ten new countries. i wonder whether the good results already achieved in the joint working group, including the report on child soldiers, will be reflected in our general assembly soon, where the atmosphere of discussion has already been improved considerably, even though i sometimes miss the equal participation of the acp countries. our forum must become an effective north-south parliament with a real impact on the orientation of our attitude, for example, to world trade. we want fair trade and not just free trade. i think we should define our policy in advance with the acp and not always meet only among the rich before going to a conference in cancun or anywhere else. the major issues listed in the united nations millennium declaration and where we want to make real progress, for example on the halving of world poverty and on good governance, health, education and an end to the oppression of women, all of these should also be on the agenda and we can measure progress on them in the acp-eu meetings. we must become true partners in the development of the north and the south and i would like to stress that consultation is always necessary if we are to avoid such disastrous issues as the zimbabwe incident.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mr modrow's report rightly highlights a number of weak points in the privatization craze that has been sweeping through many developing countries. the period of nationalisation in the decolonisation era was followed by a period of wild privatisation of enterprises, which were now often impoverished. often it was the political elite in both eras that pocketed the profits and put them into foreign bank accounts. often it was also western multinationals that acted as corrupting corporations to get their hands on vital national industries, such as mines and raw materials, for a small fee. i often feel ashamed when i come to africa, in their place, of their unethical actions. for example, the closure of the copper mines in zambia has dragged with it a whole social fabric, an economic fabric that has disrupted an entire region, an entire country. i realize that the development of a country requires investment. but can the european union not play a more positive role in helping to create the conditions for a more development-friendly reform of state-owned enterprises? i am not advocating dogmatism but genuine partnership. a poor country is often no match for the financial power of a multinational whose budget is many times larger than the national budget of the country itself. if we are not yet able to enforce the ethical codes of conduct for the companies, how can these poor countries do it? i also agree with the rapporteur that more attention and more resources should be devoted to enabling the transition of small businesses in the informal sector to the formal economy. it is also important for the women, who are often active in this informal sector. they must be helped first and foremost, because their small businesses are perhaps the most direct way of joining them in the fight against poverty.
mr president, i think this report is a modest sign of a positive development. one of the great problems in the third world has been and still is, for the most part, the absence of a genuine free market economy. in practice, socialist and collectivist experiments have usually caused problems to worsen rather than provide solutions to poverty. apparently, there's a growing consensus that government isn't just about saving lives, and we've allowed free enterprise to play a role. that is a positive development that can only be applauded. as the report states, there are several ways of reforming state-owned enterprises. no one can be against gradual evolution. the only thing to be warned about is the obstacles caused by all the intermediate levels of government intervention that one might try to build in. it is in any case a good thing that the aim is to give small and mediumsized enterprises a role, both locally and in the european union. i think it is essential that we have a thorough and timely review of the situation, without any taboos such as corruption, excessive bureaucracy, administrative inefficiency or even outright incompetence. this should apply not only to local authorities but also to ngos and similar organisations, because they are unfortunately rarely held accountable in the event of a failure.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank our colleague hans modrow for the relevance of his report, since the idea is to make everything dependent on the fight against poverty. but it must be said that one of the two commission communications - the one entitled 'public service-oriented reform of soes in developing countries: the need to evaluate all possible solutions' - was for me both an interesting and welcome read. it shows that many of the liberalizations and privatizations that have been carried out in the developing countries, under the pressure of often imposed structural adjustment plans, have had disastrous consequences in terms of job losses and the degradation and increase in the cost of the services concerned. we would like the commission to be as clear-sighted and objective when it comes to services of general interest within the european union itself. a first step in this direction would be, as the draft report calls for, for the commission to finally agree to undertake a transparent, public and contradictory assessment of the effects of liberalisation on employment, the quality and coverage of services provided and working conditions in europe. this exercise would be of benefit both internally and to better understand the situations in the countries of the south. i would remind you that our aim is to fight poverty and that this should not be left to words. a closer look at the various examples cited in the communication reveals that among the positive experiences are cases where public enterprises have remained public but where waste and corruption have been combated, where the management of the enterprise has regained dynamism and efficiency and, above all, where a regulatory and political framework has been put in place with clear, ambitious objectives in terms of development, accessibility and quality of service and financed, in particular, by a high tariff rate. these various elements do not amount to commercialisation of public undertakings, as defined by the commission, but are, in my view, the factors of good management of public services which we should also address at european level, perhaps by means of a framework directive. one final point: supporters of general liberalisation of services through the gats argue that the opening up of public services in developing countries can only be to their advantage. a more pragmatic analysis should favour a different economic development strategy, focusing on local economic and social actors - small and micro enterprises, with a focus on women and basic public services - without, above all, abandoning them to the reckless appetites of multinationals. but now, if you'll excuse me, i think we're talking about ethics.
- mr president, commissioner, it was here, a little less than a year ago - others have mentioned it before me - that in the midst of the sars epidemic we called for the creation of this european centre, inspired - as far as the missions are concerned - by the cdc in atlanta, to deal with the epidemics of modern times. this is obviously something that must be done at european level, first and foremost because since 1976 no less than 19 new emerging and deadly viruses have appeared, viruses that know no borders and that circulate at the speed of an airplane: aids, ebola, west nile virus, sars, to name but a few. this action must also be taken at european level, because here we must defend the europe of health whenever we can and we must do better than the other levels: the municipalities, the regions or the states. and this is clearly the case in the present case, when it comes to combating these viruses which can be transmitted to humans. the outbreak of atypical pneumonia has confirmed the courage of researchers and doctors who, at the risk of their lives, alerted the international community and even if europe, in this case, was relatively spared, we must remain vigilant. sars has not been eradicated and other viruses, as was widely reported this morning, are on the lookout for a possible new mutation in humans, such as avian influenza. that is why the common sense, the relevance of the proposals made by our rapporteur, mr bowis - whom i also warmly thank here - and the quality of the compromise reached with the irish presidency should lead us to welcome the rapid establishment of this european centre for disease control and prevention as of tomorrow. this organization, as i said, will have specific, vital and numerous missions: the ability to react quickly in the event of a viral epidemic or one deliberately caused by a bioterrorist attack, information to the public on the full risks of contamination, strengthening international cooperation, mainly of course with the who. the centre will also have to - and i am not the first to say this and to repeat it today - set up a european network of laboratories and contribute to the search for vaccines for these diseases which are still resistant to antibiotics. i would point out that the marketing of a vaccine or antiviral medicines is always a race against time and in some cases takes decades. that is why it is essential to continue to invest as much in screening tests, i would say, as in inactivation technologies. i take note of commissioner byrne's commitment to push the limits of the treaty as far as possible in this area, as he said earlier. in the meantime, and in the short term, in 2005, the europe of 25 will have its centre for disease prevention and control, and beyond this very strong symbol, we must remember the sign of a europe of health that is moving forward.
commission. civil society participated in the world summit on the information society preparatory process and in the summit itself, according to the rules of procedure. this is largely the result of the european union's efforts during the preparatory committees. moreover, the summit's executive secretariat set up a civil society bureau organising 23 families in order to facilitate the participation of various civil society constituencies. it even held formal meetings with civil society representatives in geneva on various occasions. it has allowed a broad convergence on key themes such as human rights, freedom of access to and communication of information, media or gender issues. i personally participated in a number of those. civil society adopted a declaration on the information society, which is available on the official summit website. although the commission has received rather positive feedback, some civil society representatives could estimate that their views have not been fully taken into account in the final documents adopted by the summit. even if the proposals of civil society were not fully taken on board in the final documents, the commission is convinced that they have played an influential role. as was also pointed out by the conference of non-governmental organisations in consultative relations with the united nations, some common language is emerging between governments and civil society representatives, paving the way for a better understanding and cooperation in the future. nevertheless, we must remember that the world summit on the information society remains an intergovernmental process under united nations rules, benefiting from the united nations' legitimacy and united nations principles of representation. in its upcoming communication to the council and parliament, the commission intends to propose to convey to the summit's executive secretariat a clear message in favour of a stronger role for civil society and to relay that position in its participation in the conference bureau as well as in its contributions.
i should like to thank the commissioner for his very detailed reply. i understand that he greatly appreciates the contribution of civil society organizations. i only find in my contacts with these organizations that there is still some doubt as to their real influence. i take note of what the commissioner is saying about that. preparations for the 2005 tunis summit are well under way. i would like to invite the commissioner to continue his dialogue with civil society organisations. as the commissioner knows, we have already had a meeting with a number of organisations in the european parliament at the beginning of march on this subject. he was invited to attend, but unfortunately he was unable to attend. i would like to invite his cabinet or members of his cabinet or his administration to attend that meeting in the european parliament on 1 march.
- mr president, the area of freedom, security and justice unfortunately raises more questions than it provides guarantees. with the accession of 10 new member states in a matter of weeks, that is a matter of concern. fort europe is unfortunately nothing more than a political fantasy of the left. in recent years there has been much talk of a common immigration and asylum policy, and of judicial and police cooperation, but little has been done in practice. in fact, there is a decline in certain areas. i am thinking, among other things, of the guaranteed fundamental rights. the way in which the future member states deal with this is rightly receiving a great deal of attention at the moment, while in belgium restrictions are being placed on freedom of expression, freedom of the press and freedom of association. the fight against so-called racism is being misused to silence the main opposition party in flanders and to stifle any criticism of the failed integration policy. in a few weeks, when all the other parties will be starting the election campaign, the flemish bloc will have to defend its right to exist in court against a government agency that falls under the direct jurisdiction of the prime minister. colleagues, we are rightly concerned when a presidential candidate disappears in russia. in belgium, the so-called heart of the european union, a party of some 50 members of parliament, which according to the latest polls has 20% of the voters, is in danger of disappearing. all this is happening under the auspices of a prime minister who has ambitions to become president of the european commission. you will understand that this kind of europe will not be approved by the majority of citizens.
- mr president, despite the many measures taken by the european union, ranging from the powers of europol to the issuing of a european arrest warrant, i find that little or no progress is being made in the area of freedom, security and justice. figures show that crime is increasing in several member states. moreover, crime is increasingly characterized by an increase in aggressiveness, which is strongly contributing to the feeling of insecurity in public opinion. unfortunately, it is no longer unusual for robberies to kill or seriously injure innocent civilians. the european union has a duty to ensure that the citizens of the union are protected, and that the european union is able to provide them with adequate guarantees, especially as enlargement approaches. the same citizen is dismayed by the inadequacy of the various police authorities in dealing with increasingly criminal behaviour. it is of the utmost importance that the european commission should propose measures to remedy this particularly painful evil. the first task of the public authorities is to ensure the safety of citizens in all circumstances. the new member states will have to be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the union's external borders are not blocked by unwanted and illegal immigration. it is a growing problem within the union which also undermines the necessary integration policy. what is the commission's position on the question of the right of asylum? until a strong stop is put to illegal immigration, there can be no real area of freedom, security and justice.
council. mr president, it gives me great pleasure, on behalf of the presidency, to respond to the question that has been asked. the european union is committed to the multilateral treaty system, which provides the legal and normative basis for all non-proliferation efforts. on 12 december 2003 the european council adopted an eu strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. the strategy incorporates and bases itself on the texts adopted by the european council at thessaloniki in june 2003. the wmd strategy underlines the eu’s particular commitment to the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons – npt. the eu believes that all our efforts should be aimed at preserving and strengthening this fundamental instrument of international peace and security. the eu supports wholeheartedly the objectives laid down in the treaty and is committed to the effective implementation of the final document of the 2000 npt review conference and the decisions and resolution adopted at the 1995 review and extension conference. the eu has repeatedly stated that the non-proliferation treaty is the cornerstone of the global non-proliferation regime and the essential foundation for the pursuit of nuclear disarmament under article vi of the treaty. the eu statement to last year’s second preparatory committee for the 2005 review conference of the npt, recalled that member states continue to attach great importance to achieving the universality of, and universal compliance with, the npt. in this regard we welcome the accession to the treaty by cuba, in 2002, and by timor leste in 2003, which brings it closer to universality. however, there are three countries – india, israel and pakistan – that remain outside the regime and we continue to call upon them to accede unconditionally to the npt as non-nuclear weapon states. on 17 november 2003 the council adopted a common position on the universalisation and reinforcement of multilateral agreements in the field of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery. article 4 of the common position confirms that achieving universal adherence to the npt is of crucial importance. to this end, the european union will firstly call on those states not yet parties to the npt to accede unconditionally to the npt as non-nuclear-weapon states and to place all their nuclear facilities and activities under the provisions of the iaea comprehensive safeguards system. secondly, it will urge those states not yet having entered into safeguards agreements with the iaea to fulfil their obligations in accordance with article iii of the npt and to conclude such agreements as a matter of urgency. thirdly, it will promote all the objectives laid down in the npt. fourthly, it will support the final document of the 2000 npt review conference and the decisions and resolution adopted at the 1995 npt review and extension conference. fifthly, it will promote further consideration of security assurances. finally, it will promote measures to ensure that any possible misuse of civilian nuclear programmes for military purposes will be effectively excluded. there is no common council analysis of the progress on the implementation of the 13 steps. the european union is however committed to encouraging the progress made towards systematic and progressive efforts towards disarmament. the european union will continue to encourage all efforts to implement article vi of the npt, as well as paragraphs 3 and 4c of the 1995 declaration on 'principles and objectives for nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament' and the practical steps agreed in the 2000 final document. the eu’s commitment to the comprehensive test ban treaty is also clear and was reiterated most recently by the eu common position on the universalisation of multilateral instruments adopted in november 2003. the eu will continue to promote the early entry into force of the ctbt. pending its entry into force, we urge all states with nuclear capacity to abide by a moratorium on nuclear test explosions or any other nuclear explosions and refrain from any actions which are contrary to the ctbt. the eu has acknowledged the importance of nuclear-weapon-free zones, established on the basis of arrangements freely achieved among the member states of the regions concerned. they enhance global and regional peace and security. we welcome and support both signature and ratification by the nuclear weapon states of the relevant protocols of nuclear-weapon-free zones. on the question of verification and safeguards, the eu believes that the safeguards serve as a technical tool in support of the political goal of sustaining an environment in which there can be peaceful use of nuclear energy without the threat of proliferation. in this connection we strongly support the verification role of the international atomic energy agency. the union also takes the view that adoption and implementation of comprehensive safeguard agreements, and additional protocols to them, is a prerequisite in the effective and credible safeguards system. the eu also continues to attach great importance to the fight against terrorism and strongly supports all measures that are aimed at preventing terrorists from acquiring nuclear, biological and chemical weapons. the wmd strategy emphasises the eu’s commitment to strengthening export control policies and practices within its borders and beyond, in coordination with partners. the eu will work towards improving the existing export control mechanisms. it will advocate adherence to effective export control criteria by countries outside the existing regime and arrangements including in the nuclear field. as regards the proliferation security initiative, the council has not adopted a position on this issue. not all member states participate in the psi. the question of the international mayors’ campaign has not been considered by the council. the third preparatory committee for the 2005 review conference of the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, which will be held from 26 april to 7 may 2004, will be a pivotal event in terms of disarmament and non-proliferation in 2004. as presidency, we will work within the union and with key partners, to seek agreement on a solid basis for the successful outcome of the review cycle. this work will take place in the first instance within the working group on non-proliferation and in its troika meetings with third countries. the work will include the preparation of eu common statements on various aspects of the treaty for delivery by the presidency at the preparatory committee. the presidency will inform the european parliament on the progress achieved in this field in accordance with article 21 of the treaty on european union.
commission. i welcome the opportunity to contribute to this debate today although, inevitably, i will traverse some of the ground that has been so ably covered by the presidency. recent revelations on the proliferation of nuclear weapons technology to iran, libya and north korea have highlighted the importance of maintaining and strengthening effective controls. it is a matter of historic record that the clandestine acquisition of nuclear weapons by india and pakistan in the 1990s and the consequent impact on regional stability gave rise to grave concern. north korea’s withdrawal from the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons last year was a further dangerous and destabilising step, both for the immediate region and the international community as a whole. the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons – npt – which entered into force in 1970, established the international nuclear non-proliferation regime as we know it. this regime established the basic norms for behaviour. it provides – as the house will know – a legal ban on nuclear proliferation beyond the five nuclear weapons states recognised by the treaty and makes nuclear proliferation activity illegal in the international community. with it came the principle of regulated nuclear trade, the concept of nuclear safeguards and, of course, the international atomic energy authority, whose excellent work underpins the regime. understandably, much of the focus has been on the regime’s failures, but we often underestimate the success. in a 1960 presidential debate, john f. kennedy envisaged a world with perhaps 20 nations with a nuclear capability. that his vision was never realised has been due, in large part, to the creation of the npt. south africa, argentina, brazil, taiwan and south korea, for example, have all turned their backs on the proliferation of nuclear weapons, partly because of international pressure, but also as a result of sensible and wise decisions taken in response to domestic debate and opinion. we also have positive recent developments with iran, which has now accepted the additional protocol, and libya. against this background, while recognising the challenges that the npt faces, particularly on nuclear proliferation and disarmament, we believe the forthcoming third preparatory committee can be approached with some confidence. there may well be shortcomings in the non-proliferation regime but they are certainly not terminal and they can, in our judgment, be addressed. we must continue to pursue the universal adoption of the npt by countries that have so far refused to do so, and in particular india, pakistan and israel. north korea must return to conformity with the treaty. we must also extend the ratification of the important additional protocol to the treaty. this protocol provides the iaea with enhanced and tougher powers to perform inspections. in this context, the commission's role is first in assisting the presidency, which sees progress in this area as a high priority, and second in encouraging the maximum degree of eu coordination. the last 12 months have seen the eu take enormous strides in strengthening its approach to non-proliferation. the european security strategy that was adopted at the december 2003 european council identifies weapons of mass destruction as one of the most dangerous threats to today’s europe. at the same european council, the eu strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction was approved. this strategy is now being followed up by concrete action. work on implementation of the strategy is proceeding in a large number of areas which are too numerous to set out today, but i will highlight a number of important examples. the first was last november’s adoption by the general affairs and external relations council of a text aimed at mainstreaming non-proliferation policies into the european union’s wider relations with third countries, among other things, by introducing a non-proliferation clause in agreements with them. this new commitment on non-proliferation is important, because the new eu strategy aims to include provisions on non-proliferation in all agreements with third countries. this is now part of ongoing negotiations, for example with syria, placing non-proliferation on a similar level to human rights and the fight against terrorism. the eu joint action for disarmament and non-proliferation in russia was established by the council in 1999 to enhance cooperation with the russian federation in the latter’s pursuit of a safe, secure and environmentally sound dismantlement, destruction or conversion of those wmd infrastructures, equipment and materials. the projects support chemical destruction and the disposal of weapons-grade plutonium. these projects, which are implemented by the commission in close cooperation with a number of member states, are a small but important part of the community’s eur 1 billion contribution to the g8 global partnership, launched at the meeting in 2002 in canada. the interparliamentary conference hosted by the commission under the non-proliferation and disarmament cooperation initiative on 20 and 21 november 2003, which took place here in strasbourg, highlighted the considerable future challenges ahead if we are to safely dispose of the dangerous remains of cold war wmd programmes. the conference’s significance was confirmed through its status as an interparliamentary gathering of figures from key national parliaments, including the united states congress and the russian duma. for the wmd threat to be removed it must become and remain a high priority issue for national governments, regional organisations and the international community as a whole. from a community perspective, we are grateful for the increased attention given by the european parliament to the need to adequately fund threat-reduction activities in the next budget cycle. the commission, in cooperation with the european parliament, is seeking to define future non-proliferation priorities and, thanks to a recent decision by parliament, will be able shortly to launch a pilot project to further this work. i am grateful for the opportunity to have taken part in this short but important debate on a matter of such international significance.
- mr president, the director of the international atomic energy agency, el-baradei, recently stated that the risk of nuclear conflict has never been greater than it is today. as iraq was brought under control, the rest of the world was transformed into a kind of supermarket of private proliferation. a supermarket where all countries and possibly even terrorists with nuclear ambitions can strike unseen. despite recent successes with libya and iran, there is little reason for optimism. both the united states, russia and france have begun preparing a new generation of nuclear weapons. with tensions rising between the us and saudi arabia, the latter is now opting for a nuclear option as well. the european-trained father of pakistan's atomic bomb, khan, spent years passing nuclear information to dictators and possibly even terrorists. this mix of commercially minded nuclear experts, unscrupulous firms and government agencies lowered the threshold for nuclear war of destruction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the capacity of the international atomic energy agency needs to be strengthened urgently to enable effective monitoring. on the other hand, the european union must have the political, diplomatic and economic courage to take action against countries which ignore or circumvent nuclear proliferation controls. we must not only tighten these controls, but also be prepared to enforce them collectively. i therefore welcome the commitment of the council and the commission to continue to work towards the full implementation of the nap and to strive for ambitious results at the next prepcom and the 2005 review conference.
- mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, if i were to hear you both speaking on behalf of the council and the commission, i should be reassured, but i am not, because since hiroshima we have been living under the threat of nuclear war and that threat is only increasing. the lip service to non-proliferation and control must be ended. the area of hypocrisy is clearly here. since the npt, however, the number of countries with nuclear material has steadily increased. it is clear that this was done with the cooperation of countries of our own union which have never been punished for it and have never been held to account. how did israel develop an atomic bomb? first with the help of france. belgium, luxembourg, germany, all of them worked together to create that atomic bomb and now we complain that israel is kept out of the zone because of course the united states does not want to force the country to accept non-proliferation. this has also been a constant stimulus to the arabs to get their hands on nuclear weapons. we see that mr khan, the father of the pakistani atomic bomb, has been able to get away with it for thirty years despite all the controls. meanwhile, the material has become increasingly available on the black market. in five years, a pound and a half of fissile material has disappeared from georgia. the implosion of the soviet union has opened up a market, a black market, of nuclear materials. i hope you will vote for enforceable measures and not give us fancy speeches to put our people to sleep, because they are very much awake.
in writing. - (fr) i am pleased that mr zappalàs' report on the recognition of professional qualifications in the european union has been adopted today. just before enlargement, in the context of the free movement of workers, a simplified and harmonised system of professional qualifications is needed for doctors, dentists, nurses, veterinarians, midwives, pharmacists and architects in the eu. i believe it is important to preserve the results and thus maintain high standards of qualification, especially for doctors, in a 'european' spirit that respects personal values. that is why i voted against amendment no 155. it would have been more appropriate to have a flexible and flexible mechanism which takes account of the evolution of university education in determining the length of specialist training. finally, i voted against amendment no 156, which does not clarify the scope of automatic recognition of professional qualifications and does not leave the member states free to choose which specialties are to be recognised in the medical profession. on these points i expect a strong signal from the council that it is listening more to professional associations, in particular medical associations, and finally we must not forget the most important ones, namely the patients.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the international protest against the anti-terrorism or apartheid wall is beginning to bear fruit. israel is apparently going to shorten the wall or separation so it cuts less far into palestinian territory. in this way, sharon is trying to turn the international tide against his policies. however, he will try to use the dismantling of the settlements in gaza as a pretext for the settlements inside the wall in the west bank. that way he can still keep the largest settlements there and leave the difficult gaza strip. he's rebuilding goodwill in washington and can quietly continue his annexation of palestinian territory. he also crosses the road map and makes his own plan the only feasible one. he doesn't recognize the green line. this is unacceptable to the united nations and, as kofi annan said in november, it is highly counterproductive for peace. this should also be unacceptable for europe, and i regret the council's attitude. a viable palestinian state needs the agricultural land and water resources that are now being demarcated. so we must continue our international protest against the wall. israel has the right to seek protection from terrorism behind the green line, but a new iron curtain will not solve anything in the long run. if you want to build a wall, build it on your own land, or your neighbor will bring in the justice of the peace. this will soon be the case in the hague, where the international court of justice will rule on the legitimacy of this wall. sharon is now trying to put up a smokescreen to deceive the world and make it forget the geneva peace initiative. the question now is whether the international court of justice can act as a justice of the peace here. in any case, the problem is now in the spotlight internationally and international pressure is being felt, including in israel where the supreme court is now hearing the case. i hope that the right decision will be taken there.
- mr president, commissioner, i do not want to dwell on the tragedy of parmalat - the eighth largest italian company - which is likely to cost thousands of workers their jobs and some 10 billion euros to the italian budget, according to the latest estimates. you yourself have seen, as is clear from your statement, that we had a joint resolution in parliament on this subject. in the context of the various initiatives you are announcing or are in the process of announcing, i would like to hear more from you about the responsibility you will have to assume as commissioner and ask you to tell us whether the proposals for directives you are making seem sufficient and up to the challenge, particularly on two points. i would like to say to my liberal colleague that we need rules because there are fraudsters. if everyone was honest, there would be no need for rules. so we need rules for fraudsters, rules that apply to everyone. on the instrument of directives itself, we need extremely short transposition deadlines and we need to ensure that all states actually transpose these directives. it is your own departments which, semester after semester, year after year, draw up evaluation reports on the internal market strategy and which actually find that quite a few directives are not being transposed. i would therefore ask you whether, in matters such as those we are discussing, there should not be legal instruments directly applicable to the member states and without excessive transposition delays. if we do not, we may find ourselves in a similar situation in a year or two. and on this point, i believe that your responsibility and that of the college are directly involved in the choice of instrument. i come to my second reflection and i must say that i regret again that the council is not present - i do not understand why the council is present at certain times and not at others - because i have already asked the irish presidency what it intended to do in this area. but in the economic and monetary committee the minister for finance gave me a very evasive reply, saying that if people wanted to cheat, it was difficult to counter them, a view which i obviously cannot share. as regards offshore centres, commissioner, why not raise the issue of effective international regulation in the wto negotiations? the question affects trade as well as trade. a number of countries are calling for new wto rules on financial services. do you not think that the european union - the council and the commission - could take this debate to the wto, where we have binding arrangements? for years now, in the fatf, in the oecd and in un committees, we have been discussing the problem of the regulation of offshore centres and, to put it simply, the abolition of tax havens. do you not think it is time to move up to the next level or are we going to have to wait for ten more financial scandals? i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that i believe that we have a unique opportunity here to demonstrate to the citizens of europe the usefulness of the european union. the parmalat case is truly scandalous, as is the fact that the political authorities are not moving more and faster, which i encourage you to do.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as is unfortunately too often the case in national politics, european politics too suffers from the syndrome of being too often reactive rather than proactive in the development of adequate measures in the event of environmental disasters. the disaster of the oil tanker erika was necessary to move towards the creation of a european maritime safety agency. less than a year after the adoption of this regulation, france was confronted with the disaster of the oil tanker prestige. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we can only applaud such an agency that is functioning well. i would like to make a few reservations, however. firstly, it is good that the agency will have sufficient financial resources to fight pollution with special ships, if a member state requests it. the environmental aspect is one which my party can unconditionally support. secondly, we also support the proposal to give the agency a role in the certification process, provided that the quality of the current training is guaranteed. i would like to make a point of order on point three. it should not be this agency but the competent port authorities themselves who should be responsible for implementing security measures against the threat of terrorism. in this respect, as an antwerp resident, i can say that the port of antwerp, for example, has made a great deal of effort in this area to bring the security of its infrastructure into line with the requirements of the us customs authorities. as was the case with self-handling a few months ago, we must here oppose the european commission's drive to introduce a single centralist model for all ports in europe and we remain in favour of the age-old hanseatic model which has ensured the prosperity, expansion, employment and security of our northern european ports.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank mr stockmann for the work he has done and to tell him that this proposal is a proposal which clearly aims to facilitate and promote intermodal transport. we believe that this is an essential element if we are to maintain sustainable development in the european union, combining economic growth with quality of life, competitiveness and environmentally friendly, competitive transport. we need to use the possibilities we have better and in a clearer way, by combining different modes of transport, which will allow us to optimise the infrastructures we have. when we talk about the intermodality sector, we need a more coherent and rigorous approach to the maintenance and control of the units, because it is the units that will enable us to transport the container - the principle of the container, which, as we have seen, is a carrier for the future - by boat, train or lorry across our territory. hence the need for a more consistent and rigorous approach to maintaining unit control in order to increase safety, the harmonisation of certain characteristics of mobile crates to improve the efficiency of transhipment and handling, and the development of a european intermodal cargo unit combining the advantages of current sea containers and mobile crates, i.e. stackability, strength, together with an optimal size of european pallets within the framework of european road legislation. i would like to stress that transport must also be possible by road. the commission intends to create a more harmonized and efficient system of load units for intermodal transport. while rail transport will undoubtedly benefit from the proposal, a key objective is to give more opportunities to inland waterway and short sea shipping in the european intermodal market. it is therefore only by harmonizing the loading units more closely that we can achieve the necessary efficiency to reduce the cost of transport and transhipment and make maritime transport more competitive, since it has to be replaced by lorries or trains. in presenting this measure, the commission has not set out to invent anything revolutionary - we do not intend to reinvent the wheel - we are relying on the tried and tested approach with which we are creating the internal market: a framework directive which sets out the essential requirements and leaves the technical details to the european standardisation bodies, which bring together experts and, in addition, those responsible for the sectors. they are the ones who know what the sector needs to achieve the political objectives. we have had a very useful and thorough debate on this with the rett committee - once again i have to say this - and i want to thank them for the time and effort they have devoted to this measure to allow this first reading to be a fully mature decision. in the council, however, things do not go as fast. i trust that the council will study carefully the results of this first reading by parliament and that it will therefore be able to arrive at a common position soon and, if possible, a common position supporting the proposal that is to come from this very parliament.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on behalf of the epp and thanking him for his work. he has helped us, especially through good cooperation, to understand this subject, which has not always been easy - especially from a technical point of view - to get down to business without getting caught. it was, in our eyes, i think, a very interesting experience of cooperation. the report - and the commission's proposal - had, in my view, a number of challenges, and i think we have dealt with these challenges well in the committee. a new product must be attractive, that is to say, it must be fair to the market and also be suitable for modern and efficient use. i believe that this result will be achieved. the product should be easier to use and therefore faster, and the product should take account of the new but also the existing handling and stowage methods. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. security is to be guaranteed. the commission's proposal and your report in committee have been very well received. intermodal transport of course, the specific example of short sea shipping was given here, where intermodal transport already exceeds 40%. of course, these figures have not yet been reached for the other modes of transport. i regard today's initiative as one which should provide an incentive for investment in multimodal transport, particularly in the economic and transport sectors. we believe that we will be able to convince not only with subsidies but also by proposing efficient means, by proposing here the all-round container, the super-container as you call it, which takes account of the optimum load contained there, but also of what is happening on the international market, and which can also bring about openings, as you yourself have just mentioned. on the whole, we are very much in agreement with your proposal. the only difference is that we continue to believe that if the product is this good, the market will regulate it and we will not have to invest public funds there, although we all believe that it is good for the development of transport as a whole if many players become multimodal. so let me conclude by saying that today i see this as a technical contribution to this concept that we all share. if the loading units we are planning to use are efficient on water, in the air, on rail and on the road, then what is rolling underneath them must also be efficient. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. if one of the players in this chain slacks off or plays weak, the whole concept will not work. so we see this as a good step in the right direction, but also as a clear call to railways in particular to think in this concept, to invest in it and to rethink its structure and efficiency.
- madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group i would like to thank mr brie for the excellent work he has done, which gives us a clear and precise picture of the work that afghanistan has to undertake and the challenges it has to meet in the coming years. but above all, i would like to thank him for the special attention he has paid to respecting women's rights, for the vigilance he asks us to exercise in view of the fragility of the acquis. the advances are considerable, it is true, in the constitutional text at any rate: political power exercised by constitutional representatives, representation of women, equality between men and women enshrined in the texts, respect for linguistic diversity considered as an asset and not as a threat and finally, a constitution that will also be based on respect for the charter of the united nations and the universal declaration of human rights. even if the islamic state is pronounced, i think for this part of the world, it's remarkable. but this challenge is one shared by the international community and the european union. we must uphold our own commitments to ensure this democratic transition and it is essential that we have a clear presence to support all processes of establishing the structures for the civil and economic rehabilitation of afghanistan. the climate of insecurity must not destabilise the efforts made, hence the need, no doubt, for a multiannual framework programme which would make it possible to structure the judicial system and put in place specific rules for reconciliation and an educational system. it also seems to me that it is essential that the process of pacification should go hand in hand with the process of economic and social reconstruction. however, we must beware of the slowness of this reconstruction, because it could be a danger to the stability necessary for the development of the country. we have made many commitments, we must keep them quickly and, above all, we must understand that any setback on our part could be exploited by others to establish their control over fragile structures, with the help of funds from the drug trade. we must also work to make the progress made visible to the people so that they do not sink into despair after 25 years of war. if we lose this bet, not only will our credibility be lost, but also a peaceful area which is fundamental to the balance of this region.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report which gives a good overview of the many problems still facing afghanistan. but let me go into the commissioner's statement in more detail. commissioner, you have overwhelmed us with figures, and i admit they are impressive. but i ask myself: we are facing a country which must be reconstructed, which must first of all reconstruct itself, and for that an economic base is needed. as you have said, the fight against opium cultivation is a very important aspect, but i have not really heard what alternatives the producers have in the various measures taken in the context of the strategy against opium cultivation. i've seen documentaries of military personnel invading farming communities and destroying everything for the opium crop. i understand that it's necessary, but how do you expect it to stop if people have no other income? same with the warlords. how can they, as warlords, ever stop when they are constantly fed a stream of money from the opium circuit? finally, i wanted to talk about the women, but i can't because my time is up. but i'll give you one example. the construction of a women's centre in kabul has been in the works for only a few months. it stood there, it was flooded by women seeking education and health care, a place where they could take off the burqa in peace. it is possible. why is it that international aid is so slow to produce results?
mr president, the european union has a vested interest in the establishment of a zone of stability, security and democracy across the mediterranean. all the european union's efforts in this direction have been well spent. but there's still a lot of work to be done. the situation in this region remains precarious. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the situation in the middle east, which is a very important subject for the european union. we cannot continue to maintain taboos as the european union. the major obstacles to achieving our objectives include the further rise of islam on the one hand and the continuing problem of immigration on the other. we must make it clear that further waves of immigration are neither in the interest of the maghreb countries nor in the interest of europe. brain drain and other phenomena do not make those countries any better. further immigration also makes it difficult to integrate the immigrants already present in europe. we need to make this a permanent issue. it is important to continue our efforts to achieve greater democracy and stability in these countries, both in their interests and in our interests, including in the framework of the good neighbour policy now in the making.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: the exclusion of reform-minded mps from participating in the elections threatens to lead to a massive number of non-voters, especially among the young. it's the only way for them to express their disappointment. they fear more than ever to fall victim to the conservative forces. the constant and flagrant undermining of the forces of reform is a danger to a new revolutionary movement. furthermore, iran is threatening to further isolate itself internationally. this is particularly worrying, especially with regard to the conflicts in the middle east region. iran's positioning is making the middle east more vulnerable than ever. the european union should use all diplomatic channels to try for the time being to persuade the iranian regime to reverse its exclusion of the reformist parliamentarians from the elections. it should be a condition for giving new impetus to the existing cooperation between the european union and iran in areas of mutual interest. the european union must also develop new initiatives without delay to cut off the drug route between iran and europe.
- mr president, iran is putting us in front of our own contradictions. it is undoubtedly, as mr tannock said, a great country with a prestigious past. it is also a potentially rich country, with oil reserves, and it has shown its desire to return to the international level by abandoning its nuclear programme for military use and by enacting a moratorium on the death penalty. iran is strategic because it has a border with afghanistan and another with iraq. in short, iran is indispensable to us and yet, in one month, it has destroyed our hopes of seeing it progress democratically. on the eve of the parliamentary elections, the coup d'état of the conservatives is succeeding: only about fifteen of the reformist deputies who were excluded were picked up by the council of the revolution. the provincial governors who threatened to resign will not do so. president khatami will not resign. the students will not rise up and the member states, sensing the change of wind, will not openly declare themselves hostile to neo-conservatives who, they think, will be able to distance themselves from religious fundamentalism. so there is total hypocrisy. i ask you, commissioner, will we also turn a blind eye in the name of economic and geopolitical interests to this serious violation of human rights which is destroying the hopes of so many iranians and what will be our attitude towards the cooperation agreement?
- mr president, on behalf of the green group, i should like to make a few comments in three minutes, in the style of a telegram. first, as regards the diagnosis of the situation, i will not insist on the fact that the conventional economic, social or environmental indicators are not very good. the commission's reports are quite clear on this point. there are three points i would like to stress which are not often mentioned in the debate. first of all, what strikes me is the diversity of situations between the different countries of the union. if you take countries like denmark, sweden or finland, you have economies that have high social and environmental standards, but are also globally competitive. they provide examples that we should meditate on. any very general discourse on the state of the european economy must therefore be qualified. the second point that strikes me about the diagnosis is the creation of jobs. i never hear any reflection on the need for differentiated strategies depending on whether these are sectors of activity which are completely immersed in international competition, market sectors which are relatively protected from international competition or sectors belonging to the non-market sphere. many analyses show that it is in these sectors that significant job creation can be achieved. finally, a third point which is rarely mentioned in the diagnosis is the evaluation of liberalisation. is there any assurance that this liberalization will actually lead to better offers, that it will encourage innovation and that it will, as mr monti likes to say, lead to lower prices? i'm not so sure. i think we have a lot of oligopolistic situations. our concern, mr president-in-office of the council, with regard to this european council is as follows. reading your presidency documents, and also reading the letter from the conservative and socialist prime ministers or heads of state meeting in berlin, we fear a retrogression from the achievements of the gothenburg european council, that is, a return to the old opposition which can be summed up as follows: high environmental standards and social standards which allow for a certain quality of life are contrary to competitiveness and job creation. there's an old saying coming back. this is the case, for example, with the reach programme. in order to make positive proposals, i would therefore encourage the european council to adopt an industrial policy which is in the interests of the environment. how is it that the commission proposes a good paper on environmental technologies, but that paper is not accompanied by any roadmap on funding or implementation? why not, in addition to the european investment bank financing, launch the idea of a large european public loan for sustainable development, since we are in areas where savings are in excess and are used to finance us deficits? finally, on price policy, mr solbes, and more specifically on the reorientation of subsidies and state aids, ecofin was to propose a plan to phase out environmentally harmful subsidies over five years. nothing is coming. internalisation of costs to achieve true prices is also a task for the ecofin council. finally, it would also be desirable to use the european public procurement legislation which allows the use of ecotechnologies to move things forward. i would have much more to say, but three minutes is really not enough time for such a subject!
mr president, i would like to ask you to vote for the report. in relation to the new staff regulations for eu officials, there are two problems to be highlighted. firstly, there is the fact that eu officials do not pay municipal taxes. in places where there are large concentrations of civil servants, such as in some municipalities in the brussels area, the local population rightly questions this. the eu officials, like the local population, use the municipal infrastructure and other facilities. given that these people have the right to vote in local elections, there is a situation of representation without taxation which is not acceptable. the commission and the european council must find a solution to this. another problem is the fact that the commission refuses to offer its officials living in flanders positive incentives to learn dutch so that they can better integrate into their local communities. this problem too should be tackled in the coming years, especially in view of the forthcoming enlargement.
mr president, the women who speak for the women here are already in an exceptional position. yet, we too often complain of lack of appreciation. we have the opportunity to work here, not always to see that work appreciated. i want to draw attention today, on this international women's day, to the millions of women who are barely getting attention. amnesty international is calling for this international women's day to be devoted to violence against women, to sexual violence against women, to the humiliations they suffer on a daily basis. i thank you for the efforts you intend to make at the level of our institution, and i would ask that we as an institution send the message to the council and to the commission that we must actually see to it that the situation of these women improves and that the humiliations and exploitation stop. we have a great responsibility as development donors in the world, but often the money gets stuck in consultants and doesn't get to the women who deserve it.
mr president, this week we are meeting survivors of the war in the congo, which has already claimed 3,500,000 lives. the international community has remained completely indifferent to the conflict there for years, and it is still going on. i am happy to say that peace is supposedly on the way. i hope that the people involved feel the same way, because at the moment the conflict in kivu is still going on. the situation remains hopeless, especially for women. i have heard horrific testimonies from children as young as 10 years old and from grandmothers in their 70s and from women of all ages in between, mothers and others, who have been victims of systematic rape as a kind of weapon of war. i believe we must do more to prevent the trivialization of this kind of violence, to condemn it and to help the victims. for justice will never be done, if the source of life is killed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this morning the news in belgium began with the news that a man had slit his wife's throat in the presence of their three children. i thought this was a harrowing beginning to international women's day and the message was intended to have this effect. then our minister onckelinckx said that in belgium 70 women are killed by their partners every year. if this is an example of equal opportunity ... i think that in equal opportunity, first and foremost, the integrity of life must come first. equal opportunities also means that women should have opportunities for training, but also that they should be able to use their training in their professional lives. it is a structural flaw in our society that women have to make more sacrifices than men to have children. when a man wants children, it doesn't have the same consequences for his professional life. for example, despite the greater participation of women in university life, women are still handicapped in their occupations. we see the glass ceiling against which it is running both in our universities and in business and politics. women have to fight to get to the top, but they have to fight even harder to stay there. because there is such a thing as the maid. not the alibi woman we used to know, but the young woman who does well in the media, but wears out very quickly. i think we should give the women the solidarity that can be offered by a movement. at that time, feminism was a women's cause as a movement. more and more women who are now reaching the top have to let go of that movement, and that's not good, because the media makes victims too quickly, they digest women. women need to be able to traverse a path to flourish, just as men need to be able to do so. we must respond to cultural differences by working within each culture to remove the specific obstacles which this culture in practice raises against women's emancipation. equality exists in law, but it has to exist much more in practice.
- mr president, i would have been very happy and very proud of this day, 8 march, because we are finally going to make all our aspirations come true, since we are heard in this parliament and the president has honoured us with an address. but in a few days and a few minutes we shall be voting on another report which considers, once again, that discrimination between the sexes must be maintained. studies show that sex cannot be the main determinant of life expectancy and other factors have been shown to be more important, such as family situation, socioeconomic factors, employment or unemployment, geographical region, smoking, eating habits. lifestyle can be seen as a multidimensional factor, which has a much greater impact on people's life expectancy than sex. studies that have excluded lifestyle, social class and environmental factors have shown that the difference in average life expectancy between women and men is between zero and two years, so that the growing gap in life expectancy among the population of some states cannot be attributed to biological differences. but beyond this, we must also admit that lobbying pressure, even on the issue of women's rights, remains extremely strong and, of course, in the coming weeks, insurers will try to convince us that the report, which concludes that men and women must be insured in a fair and just way, is not possible and is not acceptable. so, since the commission is firmly behind this proposal, we will be forced to accept a new discrimination. i am sorry for that and i would like to see people stop saying things and do things.
- mr president, today, on the occasion of women's day, we must identify and assess certain points which concern equality between men and women. this is equal treatment, equal opportunities in all areas of life, which, let us remember, should be a fundamental right. in the field of women's political representation, for example, the under-representation of women in the political decision-making process is a fundamental deficit which unfortunately characterizes our modern european democracies. that is why we must continue to build this democratic europe. for both women and men, this process should be characterised by balanced representation in the european parliament. the governments of the member states and acceding countries should assess as soon as possible the differential impact of electoral systems on the political representation of women in elected bodies and the possibility of adapting or reforming these systems. this means adopting measures to ensure balanced participation. the aim is to maintain at least 30% of women among the elected meps for the next elections. the under-representation of women in the acceding countries is likely to reduce this percentage, which has been so difficult to achieve since the 1979 vote. we must raise awareness among the acceding countries to implement governmental actions to combat the inequalities suffered by women. although progress has been made, more resources still need to be deployed. in conclusion, i would also like to express my solidarity more generally with all those women who are struggling around the world and whose rights are regularly violated. i think of all those women who are subject to barbaric traditions and customs, victims of war, aids, abuse, trafficking and, more generally, of human stupidity.
madam president, the regulation on the statute and funding of political parties at european level contains a number of provisions which are unacceptable from a democratic point of view. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the european union. worse still, the content, political and ideological conditions for obtaining european party funding are being set. what does the obligation to respect the principles of freedom, democracy and respect for the rule of law, as well as human rights and fundamental freedoms, mean in practice? who decides that? in a democracy, isn't that up to the voter? the door is thus wide open to arbitrariness, as has already been shown by certain press articles when parliament adopted the leinen report. in fact, they are simply targeting parties that question the politically correct thinking on taboos such as the immigration issue. it is therefore regrettable that the provisions of the regulation are incorporated into parliament's rules of procedure without the opportunity being taken to prevent arbitrary abuses. several complaints have been lodged with the court of justice against the regulation. those complaints are well-founded. it's a little painful that we have to pretend they don't exist here. one of the reasons for the report is as follows: 'it is important that the decision of parliament in plenary is prepared with the utmost impartiality and objectivity and that the rights of the defence are respected.' that is cynicism at its finest, because the groups are both the judge and the party. in a state governed by the rule of law, such a thing is impossible. it is also inconceivable that there should be no right of appeal in a state governed by the rule of law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary reforms.
- madam president, i understand that the report could only refer to the definition of a political party at european level, as laid down, as has just been said, in regulation no 2004/2003. the consequences include the requirement for representation in one quarter of the member states. but this unfair situation is aggravated by the delegation of powers to the bureau, both general and exclusive, in the management of subsidies, which is totally contrary to transparency. i deeply regret this delegation, firstly because it is far from certain that it is in accordance with the letter and spirit of the european regulation referred to above and, secondly, because it will inevitably give public opinion the impression not of democratic progress but of a sharing of the spoils.
the compromise reached between four political groups ensures that this control regulation can be published in the official journal and can largely enter into force on 1 january 2006. my group was very pleased to take part in the discussions on the compromise, not least because of the reference to criminal law in amendment no 206. i now hear that the council is very reluctant to do so. i regret that the council is not taking part in the debate at the moment and is not commenting on the compromise we have reached between four groups. that is why i am actually supporting mrs klaß's request, albeit for reasons other than language, to postpone the vote until tomorrow, so that we can give the council the opportunity to consult and to express its views here in the plenary on the reference to criminal law in amendment no 206. i would like to stress a number of important elements of this regulation for our group. firstly, as the rapporteur herself has said, it is of course important to extend the scope of the regulation from animal feed to animal welfare and animal health. secondly, the explicit mention of the need for unannounced checks. thirdly, the need for public controls on self-monitoring and labelling. fourthly, very practical, to avoid conflicts of interest among auditors. we learned in belgium that it still exists. there are still independent veterinarians with their own practices who carry out checks. fifthly, the imposition of quality requirements on laboratories. sixthly, the need for cooperation between national and regional authorities, as the mpa case has taught us. finally, mr president, since international networks are very often active in this field, it is extremely important that there be international cooperation between the control services and the customs authorities, as well as between authorities, and that there be contact points. i believe that this regulation is a great step forward and i hope that we can approve the compromise of the four groups by a large majority.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her persistent efforts to reach compromise amendments and to produce a compromise text through the necessary contacts. that's how we avoid a second and third reading. the harmful effects of counterfeiting in various fields and the dangers to public health and innovation have been pointed out many times. in three years the situation has become even more serious. now all products are affected, even everyday consumer goods. the scale of the phenomenon is becoming more alarming and organized crime is increasingly involved. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. the report's positive points include the fact that the directive will apply to all infringements of intellectual property rights. in addition, member states will have to ensure that all serious infringements of intellectual property rights are treated as criminal offences, which give rise to criminal sanctions. creativity and innovation are, as we know, the main drivers of our european economy and must therefore be adequately protected. i therefore call on you to support the rapporteur in her struggle.
mr president, commissioner, products from the occupied territories are not israeli products under the association agreement. that's how we should look at this case. it's a symbol file, and symbols are important in matters of war and peace, especially at this time. the wall israel is building now is more than a symbol. it has nothing to do with preventing terrorism, but is aimed at depriving the palestinians of the water and water sources on which they depend for their agriculture and for life in their villages. the right to water is a human right and because this human right is being violated, along with other human rights, i ask for the suspension of the association agreement.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected by the community's financial instruments. it is therefore legitimate to provide for adequate specific legal means to combat this problem. but some have wanted to introduce too much flexibility into the scope of the directive, no doubt under pressure from a number of lobbyists. this is very dangerous because it opens the door to the abuse of anti-plagiarism procedures against individuals who are guilty of, for example, downloading music they have found on the internet. the procedures also risk being used by the large companies to harass their weaker competitors (e.g. smes). finally, there is a fear that some will use this directive to go back on topics on which the european parliament has already spoken, such as generic medicines or the non-patenting of software. that is why i voted against this proposal for a directive, which the european parliament has not been able to amend satisfactorily.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, those who are in favour of the enlargement and deepening of europe have one common concern today, or should have one: how can the enlarged europe be prevented from stalling? how can it be avoided as a quagmire of indecision? europe has always been a source of hope for its citizens. even governments, which regularly fail to find solutions to problems, point to europe as the place from which solutions must come. but today europe is fearful. unemployment is rising and people fear that it will get worse with enlargement. the member states, large or small, cannot tackle this problem alone. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the creation of a european network of national experts in the field of employment. at the same time, this should be an effective response by the member states to globalisation. that's why it's their goddamn duty to see that there's a constitution. it is not difficult to explain to 14-year-olds or to 70-year-old pensioners that we need a constitution. why is it so difficult for our leaders to muster the courage to put this constitution into practice?
- mr president, no one can deny that an impressive amount of work has been done in the ten future member states in preparation for accession. still, it would be inappropriate to become euphoric. there are still many unresolved problems. the committee on agriculture and rural development, for example, in its opinion on this report, expresses its concern about the widespread corruption in the agricultural sector and the way in which subsidies will be paid. another problem is cyprus. we are faced with the unprecedented situation of the applicant country turkey occupying a part of another future member state by military means. to this day , we don 't know if the entire island will join the eu . another major issue is the immigration that may arise from the new member states. most of the current member states have announced a transitional measure, but the question remains how far it will be respected. i hope i am wrong, but when i look at the figures the commission is using, i think the problem is grossly underestimated, as are the other problems that enlargement will cause. most of the new member states are not yet ready for accession. everyone knows that, but hardly anyone dares to say it out loud. jacques delors is one of the few who have said it and he deserves all the credit for it.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, for the last time, as rapporteur for the committee on social affairs and employment, i can give an opinion on the preparations of the applicant countries in the social field, and i can do so together with mr ettl. i must say that all these countries have made an incredible effort to make progress in various areas, including social progress. they have a number of assets which are far too little known, especially in our countries, where it is often thought that the new member states are still in the early stages of development. this is not the case, of course. for example, the population is very well educated: 88% of 20-24 year olds had at least a tertiary education. this is higher than the 74% in the 15 current member states. in addition, the population in the 10 new countries is younger than in the 15 current member states. so the ageing process will be delayed. in short, these countries have a great potential for human capital. the full exploitation of this potential must be high on the agenda. today, human capital is still under-invested. unemployment is high and employment is low in the acceding countries. 14.3% of the working population is unemployed, compared with 8% in the european union. unemployment among young people under 25 is rising dramatically: at 32%, it is twice as high as in the european union. a standout is poland, with a youth unemployment rate of 41%. in addition, youth unemployment rose in seven of the 10 candidate countries in 2003 compared with the previous year. it is therefore clear that these countries must develop an active and sustainable employment policy in line with the european employment strategy. lifelong learning should keep workers employable in the evolving labour market. the number of people aged 25 to 65 who were in training in 2002 is 5%, compared with 8% in the european union, and there is also a risk of brain drain for skilled workers. another point is occupational safety and health. some countries prefer higher wages to safety and health facilities at the workplace. purchasing power and gross income are still well below the eu average, but they have increased, whereas in our countries they have decreased. in fact, the increase is considerable. the performance in this area is quite outstanding. a major problem, however, is that wages remain too low to escape poverty. in the ten countries in question, 40% of the population is working. social security must be developed more. the social partners must organize themselves better, because they still do not have the organizational capacity to organize social consultation in their respective countries.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the comments made by our rapporteurs show that the accession countries have made a great deal of effort, but that they still have a great deal of work to do in the fight against corruption, fraud and trafficking in human beings and especially in the area of the application of the law. the most painful paragraphs in several reports are the remarks on the roma. they are discriminated against, marginalised and treated as second-class citizens everywhere, including in present member states. in slovakia this has already led to riots and even a fatality, in particular because of the reforms that slovakia has implemented, which result in, for example, the introduction of an absolute maximum for social assistance that is no longer dependent on the number of family members, so that roma families with large children are directly affected and feel that the measure is directed against them. i would therefore urge that we should encourage more effective measures to improve the situation of the roma, not only in slovakia but everywhere. moreover, the measures must not be taken for the roma alone but must be implemented by the roma, who have too little to do with improving their own lot and their own emancipation.
council. – the supplementary question goes rather beyond the question from mr martínez martínez. if mr ortuondo larrea wants to table a question on a specific issue he may have in mind, i will answer it.
- i'd like to convey the following to the council. i have just returned from cuba, where i have had an unbiased view of the situation on the ground, and given the way in which human rights violations are discussed here, a visit to the site is not a bad idea for some. we are leaving a treasure behind in our policy towards this country. cuba is presented by some in a specific way, but the country has much to offer us. we can learn a great deal from cuba, especially in the field of actions for specific target groups in selected areas. it is also regrettable that many european ngos are now having a very difficult time because of europe's attitude. they would like europe to repair and improve relations with cuba and to look at the country through a different lens, without being influenced by third parties. there are many rumours about cuba and we have a different perspective on this country than other countries. i won't name names, but there are other countries where the death penalty is still in place. in short, there are all kinds of interesting things happening in cuba and it would be useful to visit the place and see the country through ordinary glasses.
the rapporteur. - the president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i shall not take more time than is necessary, because there is a broad consensus on my report and that of mr clegg and mr nicholson. i can be brief about my report. the commission considered that the security measures at very small airports needed to be adapted because they were too difficult to apply in practice. it was necessary to address the emergency situation created by the implementation of regulation (ec) no 2320/2002 of 16 december 2002 establishing common rules in the field of civil aviation security. aviation safety has always been an important issue for the people and therefore also for this parliament. after september 11, 2001, this was even more so. the committee on regional policy therefore studied the issue in depth in 2002 and insisted on 100% control, appropriate technical standards and attention to who should pay for all this. a regulation was adopted on 16 december 2002 and entered into force about a month later. i was a newcomer to this parliament at the time and could hardly follow the discussions. the regulation in question was prepared by the commission in a short time in response to the increased feeling of insecurity in civil aviation. parliament was very cooperative in its efforts to adopt the regulation as soon as possible. initial experience with its application showed that some aspects could be improved and that some terms needed to be clarified. that is why this proposal was amended, which is mainly technical. it was found to be inefficient and costly to apply the same safety requirements to airports for small aircraft only and to adjacent zones for sport aircraft at larger airports. but even there, safety must be guaranteed. therefore, national safety measures will now apply whenever the regulation provides for measures which are objectively impractical or disproportionate. for example, for general aviation with small aircraft, demarcated zones are introduced which are separated from the rest of the airport. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 28 june 2012 and that the agreement was signed on 27 june 2012. the word control is also clarified and some inconsistencies are eliminated. i think it is important to clarify the regulation and correct errors in the legal text, but above all to ensure that the rules are practical and applicable. we are working very well with the commission again, but if the council adopts a position at first reading which substantially changes the regulation, we may have to change our attitude. i propose at this stage to vote in favour of the proposal to amend the regulation and to thank the services for the support they have given me in the preparation of my report.
the commission (es) madam president, thank you very much. unfortunately, we have to go back to work at the moment, but i would first like to express my full solidarity with what president cox has just said. madam president, the aim of the commission's proposal today is to update community regulations (eec) nos 1408/71 and 574/72 to take account of developments in national legislation, to clarify the legal situation in relation to certain articles of these regulations and to take account of recent case law of the court of justice. this proposal, which is based on criteria endorsed by the council, contains a new list of non-contributory benefits which are the subject of specific coordination. this coordination, based on the principle of residence, was confirmed by the court of justice in the snares case. in its judgment, the court established, first, that the benefits in question were not exportable and, second, that the new state of residence was under an obligation to provide the benefits in its territory. in the light of this case-law, it was necessary to review the list in annex iia in order to verify whether all the benefits meet the criteria of special nature and non-contributory nature. the court has held that the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security is not precluded by article 3 of the sixth directive, which provides that the right to equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security is to be guaranteed by the legislation of the member state in which the worker resides. examination of annex iia has shown that many of the benefits currently listed therein should not be maintained. these are those which, although intended for disabled people, have as their main objective to alleviate the dependence of these people, improving their health and living conditions as people in need of special care. what is the commission's position on the amendments? first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs gillig on her excellent report on a delicate and technically complex subject. the commission can accept amendments nos 1 to 3 of parliament, since the benefits they mention correspond to the criteria mentioned above. the commission cannot, however, accept amendments nos 4 to 8, which seek to exclude from annex iia two dutch benefits: the disability benefit for disabled young people and the supplementary amounts or minimum incomes for social assistance recipients. the commission is including these two proposals in its proposal, the first of which is already included in the current annex iia, because, on reexamining its characteristics, it finds that they are special non-contributory benefits. however, the commission cannot accept amendments nos 9 to 12, which seek not to exclude but to include in annex iia four benefits covered by swedish legislation, since they are family benefits and therefore exportable. the regulation defines family benefits as those intended to compensate for family burdens and this definition was interpreted in a very broad sense by the court of justice in the combined hoever and zachow cases. as regards amendments nos 4 to 12, which the commission cannot accept, the commission stresses the importance of giving all benefits, both those whose inclusion in annex iia is accepted and those excluded, the same treatment with regard to the analysis of the special and non-contributory criteria. this is the view taken by the commission in the negotiations on this annex for the applicant countries and we believe that it should be maintained for the member states. therefore, to remove the dutch benefits from annex iia and to include the swedish benefits would undermine the balance proposed by the commission in relation to the annex. for all the reasons given, the commission can adopt amendments nos 1 to 3, as i have already said, but not the others.
madam president, first of all, on behalf of the european people's party, i would like to express my sympathy to the spanish people and government. fighting terrorism is a very difficult business. today we are discussing a proposal which comes up every year and which concerns all the member states, because every year a clear distinction must be made between exportable and non-exportable social rights. the former are linked to social contributions and premiums. it has always been europe's wish that the services for which contributions and premiums are paid in the field of social security should be exportable. as regards non-exportable social rights, there is a continuous search for a better definition. the report on the proposal for a regulation submitted by the commission has again attempted to clarify the definition of non-exportable duties. this is necessary every year because each year the member states update their regulations and something new is constantly being introduced into the market. therefore, it is also necessary to re-examine at regular intervals whether the duties are exportable or non-exportable. the commission's report states: 'the first element of a 'special non-contributory benefit' is essentially the 'special' nature of the benefit. this applies to all branches of social security to which the performance analysed relates. the 'special' benefits are halfway between the 'classic' social security and welfare benefits and are related to welfare 'since need is the essential award criterion'. " i think that for what is listed in the annexes, the need is indeed the essential award criterion. on this basis, my group believes that the countries which export rights which europe considers to be non-exportable will have to adapt their social legislation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the netherlands has clearly made a request and has also tabled quite a few amendments. in other countries, including belgium, the situation is probably not so different from that in the netherlands. i therefore believe that the oral amendment tabled by mrs gillig, which agrees with the position of some of my colleagues in the group of the european people's party, should be supported. we are prepared to accept mrs gillig's text and to meet the commissioner's request. that is how we get an agreement in this parliament.
i would also like to express my condolences to the spanish people, and in particular to the families of the victims. i think that this house cannot condemn enough such acts of violence. ladies and gentlemen, this annual update of the coordination regulation is a bit unusual this year, because we are not only discussing technical adjustments but also making an attempt to formulate a coherent vision for non-exportable performance. i would like to echo the words of marie-thérèse hermange, who points out that the court of justice has always stressed that exceptions to the principle of non-exportability must be interpreted strictly. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social security system is not distorted. the commission also feels that a strict interpretation is necessary and i therefore support the proposal now in annex iia. i would like to make two crucial remarks, however. firstly, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we must soon reach an overall agreement on the modernisation of the coordination regulation, including an agreement on non-exportable benefits. i have already heard that there are serious attempts being made in the council to extend considerably the list of non-exportable benefits, which will undermine the coordination regulation. the adoption of these annexes today is a signal to the council that parliament will not tolerate this. secondly, ladies and gentlemen, it is interesting that a system is logically constructed, but we must also be aware that changes affect specific people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the minimum income is not exceeded, and that the member states are not obliged to take any further action to ensure that the minimum income is not exceeded. i am therefore appalled, commissioner, to find that once again such a verification has not been carried out. this parliament has been asking for a marginal impact assessment for years, a very valid question, as it has now been demonstrated once again. the addition of the dutch law on benefits, which i think has been rightly included in the list, means that some 200 belgian frontier workers are losing their allowance. some of them receive compensation under the belgian law on assistance, but others lose part of their income, and that is why, commissioner, i urge you to carry out a thorough investigation of the impact on those affected, possibly through the eures networks. it is also necessary that the member states responsible, in this case belgium and the netherlands, agree on transitional periods and compensatory measures, for example through a bilateral agreement. the amendment tabled today in the plenary must be supported. i am going to join my belgian and dutch colleagues in writing letters to the ministers responsible to find solutions for those who risk losing part of their income and falling below the poverty line.
i am speaking to you, mr president, at the request of our colleague, mr eurig wyn, who is in turkey as an observer for the local elections. he asks me to inform you and the other members that he has not been allowed access to the polling stations in several places in eastern turkey. i think that this experience will be further illustrated by him and should be added to the reports of violence in these recent elections in turkey, which even resulted in deaths. this is a further indication that turkey does not meet the copenhagen criteria.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. this article is about the dissemination of so-called price sensitive information. the compromise proposal, as adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, creates a new problem in my view. the amendment refers to officially designated mechanisms for the central storage of regulated information. i am of course not opposed to a central repository for price sensitive information, but i am concerned about whether it should be officially designated on a national basis. i believe that this will open the door to the creation or maintenance of monopolies in the field of information dissemination. in my view, monopolistic behaviour is totally contrary to the objective of the directive, namely to remove national barriers to transparency requirements and to improve the efficiency, openness and integrity of the european capital market.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to stress, however, certain points which i consider to be essential in this matter and to make a number of observations again. a disproportionate majority of the world's poor are now women. there is a strong link between gender inequality and poverty, as well as between poverty eradication, women's empowerment and gender equality. the four countries that rank lowest on the un's gender equality index also rank lowest in human poverty. if poverty is to be effectively reduced, gender equality must be improved. moreover, given the important role played by women in the societies of developing countries, it is widely recognised that the full participation of women is a prerequisite for sustainable development. for many years, women have been recognised as key actors in project success, change and development. it would be illusory to carry out actions in favour of development and sustainable development without taking women's views into account and making them actually involved in projects. the development cooperation policy we are pursuing must not be reduced to financing projects to give ourselves a good conscience, but must be an investment in the future so that the people and the countries concerned may one day become partners and drivers of their own development. women play multiple and varied roles in many societies. they are wives, mothers, educators. they develop small businesses, they grow, they sell; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. however, in many cases they are also victims of a decaying society. they are the victims of war, disease, patriarchal societies. our action must be to promote and support women's participation in economic, social, political and environmental fields. similarly, we must work to improve access by women of all ages to all resources and services such as health, education, training and infrastructure. by empowering women, we empower them to take charge of their lives so that they can set their own goals, acquire the skills they need, have more confidence in themselves, solve their own problems and learn to become self-reliant. in this way, women and men are enabled to participate in social and political life and thus acquire citizenship, a fundamental element of any democracy. in this way we also consolidate the rule of law and finally allow human rights and fundamental freedoms to be expressed in territories other than our own. for some years now, gender equality has been an integral part of the european union's development cooperation policy framework. priorities and objectives have been defined. however, there is still a long way to go to achieve concrete results and improve the situation of women in developing countries. the aim of the regulation we will be voting on this week is therefore to strengthen the implementation of measures to promote gender equality in the european union's development cooperation policies, strategies and operations. activities funded under this regulation should act as a catalyst to complement and strengthen existing policies and programmes in developing countries. the financing of this regulation is the only sticking point we have had. the solution found, i hope, is that the sooner the projects are approved, the sooner the money will be released and the actions carried out on the ground with ngos and local women's associations. we need concrete action, not just words and nice words. finally, i would hope, madam commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that when this regulation is renewed, we will finally have a substantial increase in the budget, as well as an impact assessment of the type of work carried out and a summary by country and by theme of actions. it is only by working ourselves into the future that we can have prospects for democracy.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my support for mrs prets' report. we are faced with a report of great importance for women. the european union and its member states share the principle of non-discrimination between persons. our choice, which many seem to be denouncing, is not just a question of money, it is a question of respect for european values and treaties. it is also a requirement not to have privileges when it suits us, as some often seem to criticize us. the view of our institution must not be electoral or partisan, but a political act in the sense of greater respect for gender equality. we had long hoped for a broader directive, covering many areas in which to promote gender equality. we are, however, dealing with a directive which is rather limited but nevertheless very important for this equality between persons which is in itself a step forward. we expect more solidarity and gender equality from this directive. i would like to stress that we must oppose any discrimination based on criteria which do not depend on the will of people, such as sex, race, ethnicity and age. the proposal for a directive does not concern the calculation of premiums according to risk, but only the inclusion by insurers of the sex factor in this calculation. excuse me, i'm a woman and i don't consider that a risk. other lifestyle factors, regardless of gender, could be taken into account in the calculation of certain insurance policies. furthermore, i would stress that the right to equality between women and men is an individual right enjoyed by women and men as individuals and not as members of a group. some of them are making arguments to frighten our fellow citizens. before we make a quick amalgamation on the possible implications of the directive, it should be stressed that the possible and not probable reductions or increases in certain branches of insurance will only be for new contracts and not, as some suggest, for contracts already subscribed. moreover, this directive does not only concern women, but also men. it will therefore have repercussions on the calculation of insurance premiums for men and also in the other areas covered by this directive, i.e. access to and provision of goods and services. equality in the access to and supply of goods and services is essential. even today, discrimination is still common in our civilized societies. it is common to see posters specifying that the rental of an apartment is only open to women or men, to see places or services that are only open to one sex. in a previous debate, we discussed gender equality in development cooperation. i think that the report in question, which was intended to enable women to play a more important role and to combat discrimination against women in third countries, should be an example that we should also apply here at home. some hope to empty the directive of its very substance by amending it. i hope that will not be the case in the votes and that we will support this report. i also hope that the european union and the member states will implement and enforce the directive. although community law affirms the principle of equal treatment between women and men and a directive has already been adopted, the implementation of this principle has always proved difficult in practice. goodwill is not a factor. the gender gap in the labour market still exists. this inequality, however, is now being denounced as an obstacle to european competitiveness and the achievement of the lisbon objectives, as explained in the european commission's latest report on gender equality. i hope, mr president, commissioner, that in the next parliamentary term the european commission will submit a directive to us which will fill in the gaps in the principle of non-discrimination between women and men in the other areas not yet covered. finally, i hope above all that tomorrow the european parliament will make a strong and clear gesture in favour of non-discrimination and affirmed equality between women and men.
as a woman, i have always been proud of what the european community has achieved in the field of equal treatment for men and women. we have been pioneers in this field, especially in the area of equal treatment in what i would call the work and occupational sphere. it's never been easy. now that we have a legal basis to go beyond the professional and labour sphere, i think we should do the same. i think it is wise for the commission to provide for an exception in the field of taxation for the time being, or at least for the time being. i think that is important because we are moving directly into the field of family policy in taxation and i believe that we must continue to give member states the freedom to make their own choices in this area. the insurance industry's request for an exception is understandable, because the proposal requires very large adjustments on their part. i would ask the insurance industry to understand that we want to include insurance in the scope of this directive. i accept the legal reasoning that unequal treatment of what is different does not constitute discrimination in the strict sense. but that should not prevent us from taking positive steps to achieve equality of treatment between men and women in the broad sense of the word in society. this means that we must go beyond employment and occupational schemes and in this sense i can support the commission's proposal to a large extent.
the transport of live animals for slaughter over long distances is a barbaric practice which must be combated. three million animals are still transported each year within the european union and to third countries. slaughter animals must be slaughtered as close as possible to the farms for breeding and fattening. animals are not goods that can be transported without any further consideration. meat is a product and it can be transported. the transport of animals not intended for slaughter must comply with all animal welfare rules. in sparsely populated and remote areas it may be necessary to allow exceptions, but the transport of animals for slaughter over long distances should be prohibited. the aid for this transport must be abolished. at present, this amount is still eur 60 million per year. the report by mr maat is a worthy attempt to improve transport arrangements, but it does not correspond to our principles and our expectations.
in writing. - (fr) despite the efforts made by mr maat to improve the council's position, i was forced to vote against the proposal because almost all the amendments seeking to strengthen the protection of animals during transport have been rejected. unfortunately, we have not achieved what i consider to be a proper transport that takes account of the animals.
the president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after madrid the danger of a clash between the western and the islamic world is growing. we just let this happen? both in israel and among the palestinians there are forces that seek mutual destruction. what could a so-called military solution be otherwise? sheik yassin didn't want peace based on negotiations, but does sharon? the military occupation of palestine has repeatedly provoked violence on the part of the palestinians. with the construction of the wall and the murder of yassin as the final provocation. and more and more violence came out of that violence. it is a source of frustration, so much so that the export of the conflict to other regions is constantly approaching and is becoming a danger to world peace and to the security of our cities. we therefore ask you to give a new impetus to peace efforts, to withdraw from the association agreement and to start the debate on an international peacekeeping force in israel without delay. only self-determination can really provide a solution for peace.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, we are here, at the hour of the hour, to make statements of great importance and to condemn the violence in the middle east. is there really nothing more we can do? why can't the european union play a more active role in this conflict? the european union must now take a leading role in the peace process, and there are several reasons for this. unfortunately, further radicalisation between israel and the palestinians is more than likely after recent events. the united states' status as a good international negotiator has been seriously undermined by afghanistan and iraq. the implementation of the international roadmap seems very far off. the european union must therefore act. it has a vested interest in peace and stability. we are the region's largest trading partner and the largest provider of humanitarian and financial aid. when will action finally follow words?
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: with cyprus on board, on 1 may tel aviv will be half an hour's flight from the union and we will be a direct neighbour. the recent visit of the parliament's delegation to israel has shown us that many israelis have high expectations of the union. they expect us to play a leading role in the region. israel is led by a man who has trampled on international law and has added fuel to the fire in this conflict. he is doing great damage to his country and also giving international terrorists an excellent alibi to do what they do. i read in the council statement that the union is consistently opposed to extrajudicial executions. the only consistent approach, in my view, is to review trade relations and use our economic power as a carrot and a stick. but not just against israel.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me first make it clear that i condemn all forms of violence. let me also make it clear that i am absolutely in favour of a multi-ethnic kosovo. i prefer to say kosova, because that is the albanian term for kosovo. i agree with mr lagendijk when he says that it was written in the stars that sooner or later there would be outbreaks of violence in kosovo. anyone who has ever visited the divided city of mitrovica knows that it took little to start a rebellion. the riots and the lynchings were perfectly imaginable. it is therefore necessary to put the hardliners among the kosovo albanians to the test. to do that, we need to remove trauma. traumas from the past, the traumas of the exodus of 1999, the traumas still alive among albanian kosovars about the nearly four thousand missing friends, acquaintances, brothers, sisters, fathers and mothers. there are still 4,000 people missing. they have disappeared or are still in serbian prisons on very vague charges. trauma from the present, too. is it not true that the international community in the north is in fact implementing the secret pact between milosovic and the russian generals, with the north of kosovo becoming indeed serbian territory? the albanian kosovars in mitrovica, 85 per cent of the population, are still, no matter how you turn it around, in fact, the hostages of the serbs. unemployment in the albanian part is two and a half times higher than in the serbian part. the albanian kosovars in mitrovica in the southern part earn two and a half times less than the serbs in the northern part. the official position of the international community is still: standards first, then status. well, i'd like to advocate a one-on-one approach here. we must strive for both standards and status. only an independent kosovo will contribute to real peace in the region. at least, if the multiethnicity is also respected by the albanian kosovars.
- mr president, given the short time i have, i should like to confine myself to one aspect, and that is the problem that many in europe have in defining the problem of terrorism. terrorism is not just a problem in itself, it must be situated for the most part within extreme islam. this is a worldwide phenomenon, and i need not give any recent examples. we must learn to recognize this fact and take it into account when defining strategies against terrorism. we must therefore stop the growth of extremist islam, first and foremost within the eu. in belgium, for example, the state security service complains that it does not have the necessary resources to monitor muslim fundamentalism. the belgian government recently appointed eight well-known fundamentalists to the muslim executive, so they will make up at least half of it. meanwhile, in some mosques, as elsewhere in europe, calls are being made for jihad. the report by the eumc on anti-semitism is being presented in this parliament today. this is the refined version, because the original version pointed out that anti-semitism is mainly found among muslim immigrants and that is why we are now beginning to censor our own reports. as long as we remain stuck in this politically correct autism, we will not be able to develop an effective strategy against the terrorism that threatens us.
commission. mr president, the commission believes that there is a good basis for agreement between parliament, the council and the commission on this amended regulation on development cooperation with south africa. amendment no 3 is the only obstacle to approval by the commission and – i should note – by the council.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i thank the commissioner for his statement. in these circumstances we can withdraw amendment no 3 and we can also announce that amendment no 2 will be replaced by amendment no 4.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a great many reports on fundamental rights have already been passed over in this parliament. it is always striking how the rapporteur succeeds in outdoing his or her predecessor in criminalising the millions of europeans who are faced with the dramatic consequences of uncontrolled immigration. it is not the few politicians and governments who are making more timid attempts to address the massive consequences of asylum abuse that are going to be blamed for the lack of solidarity. it is intellectually dishonest for politicians who believe that our densely populated societies cannot tolerate new waves of immigration without catastrophic social consequences to systematically throw the blame on racism and xenophobia. less than two weeks ago, gangs of young immigrants here in the state castle, as they have done for years at christmas, caused senseless destruction of numerous private properties. perhaps some rapporteur could include in a report on fundamental rights a passage on the right to physical integrity, the right to safety and the right to property of europeans living in the suburbs of our cities. it would be more useful than any other empty and irrelevant rhetoric about how badly we europeans treat our fellow men.
- mr president, i would like to join in your congratulations and thank the rapporteur for his report, because the inclusion of the european development fund in the budget is a long-held wish. not only because of the lack of transparency, both in decision-making and in implementation. we must admit that the procedures were very cumbersome and we have noted that there were hopeless delays, to the extent that a surplus of 11 billion euros in appropriations was created for which payments had yet to be made. it is particularly shocking to public opinion to find that poverty in the developing countries is constantly increasing and that there is no efficient way of channelling the money and supporting the necessary projects directly and efficiently. we are very much in favour of this budgeting, although we are aware that this is not a magic formula. so far it has been voluntary contributions and we wonder whether we will get guarantees that the funds will be kept up. the commissioner has promised us that this will be the case, but the mechanisms for this have yet to be established. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. i am not in the least interested in reducing the autonomy of the acp countries in this respect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i understand the anxiety of our acp partners in part, but it would be disappointing if budgeting did improve transparency but efficiency in the spending of resources fell behind. i therefore hope that we will succeed in maintaining the standard and in increasing efficiency and transparency.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are here at the end of a directive which has been in the works for years and which has been a disaster all along. i hope this does not apply to the follow-up and the final result. as early as 1996, the commission first put forward a proposal for a directive which should improve the safety of aviation in our community, including aircraft from third countries. at that time the procedure could not be brought to a successful conclusion because of a dispute between the united kingdom and spain over gibraltar. it was not until after the tragedy of 11 september 2001, when the crisis in aviation broke out, that everyone realised that it was time to get to work on ensuring safety and reassuring citizens. we then moved with skillful urgency and, following parliament's first reading on 3 september 2002, the commission tabled an amended proposal on 26 november, incorporating 13 of the 19 amendments adopted by parliament. that wasn't bad. the council adopted its common position in june and parliament closed its second reading on 9 october with the adoption of five amendments. the commission's powers to impose and extend to the whole of the community measures imposed by a member state, such as denial of access to the territory or operating conditions for an airline, and the acceleration of enforcement procedures. then it was another disaster that sped things up. this time it was the crash of flash airlines, which killed 149 people in sharm el-sheikh. we were able to hold a trialogue meeting very quickly afterwards, in which the question of transparency, which had now been raised in all circles and by public opinion, was discussed. we then adopted a compromise proposal from the council on the condition that a few more amendments would be made. the council was not very keen on this at first, but we have succeeded in bringing the process to a successful conclusion, and we are happy about that. there will be an annual report with aggregated data, which will contain all the information. at the insistence of parliament, the report is also made available to interested parties. it should also be simple and understandable and should make it clear whether there is an increased risk to the safety of travellers. we have stressed this point very strongly. i am therefore pleased that the commission's powers in relation to states or companies which do not apply international safety standards have been considerably improved. however, the council's common position would be that it could only be a recommendation. we have now, however, succeeded in considerably strengthening the commission's powers in this area. we welcome the procedure followed, because it is precisely this procedure that guarantees us that we will be able to work very clearly, transparently and in public. of course, we are not blind to the fact that we have not yet come all the way. i would remind the commissioner of her own words in connection with charter companies. often we do not know who is operating the flights of travellers who have been informed of all the details of their journey. here, a new initiative will be needed. i also think we should take into account the comments of the people who are currently running the safa procedure. i find that in a report on belgian aviation inspections under the safa procedures. it says that we should not expect too much from it, because there is actually too little time to carry out these inspections very thoroughly and regularly. i therefore believe that the further implementation of the procedure and the directive, as well as the way in which the public and those concerned will be informed and will be able to play a role in signalling around airports, will give rise to further refinement of the procedures. i hope that the other directives which need to be amended will include the same safeguards so that this directive fully guarantees that all travellers who board an aircraft, whether from a third country or from a member state, will have the same safeguards in respect of their safety. that requires political will and, i hope, no new disasters.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, the past period has been a difficult one for turkey in the social and employment fields. there's been a financial crisis, earthquakes, drought and a terrorist attack. this has obviously had an impact on the social situation and the welfare of the people. turkey's overall level of wealth in terms of purchasing power is barely 23 percent of the level in the european union. compared with five years ago, the gap has widened, as in 1997 it was just over 30 per cent. unemployment has risen and is hovering between 9 and 10 percent. the employment rate is below 50%, while in the european union it is above 60%, although we are aiming for 70%. there are two possible explanations for this decline in employment. women are not in employment, only one in four women is employed and many low-skilled rural women choose to stay at home because of a lack of opportunities to work. there is also a growing informal employment, and paradoxically, this is partly caused by rigid labour laws. the dismissal system in turkey is very strict and as a result employers try to evade the dismissal system by recruiting illegal workers. child labour also remains high. it is estimated that there are still 750,000 child laborers. according to eurostat, a quarter of the turkish population has an income below 60% of the median income. poverty remains high and the social indicators are not very good. that does not take away from the fact that turkey has made a great effort. labour legislation has been developed and an unemployment scheme has been developed. efforts are therefore being made, but it should be noted that, as a result of the crisis and the lack of investment, these have so far had little effect on the social situation. i support turkey's application to join the european union on the terms agreed in copenhagen. i hope, therefore, that we can all help turkey to take this step.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). it was only a matter of time before this was not the case! the point is not whether candidate countries make progress, but whether they meet the criteria for accession. that's clearly not the case. i could list here the list of fundamental problems which are still occurring. i'm afraid i don't have time for that. the human rights situation remains precarious, despite reforms, which are mostly on paper and not translated into practice. the social and economic gap between turkey and the european union is so wide that it would be totally irresponsible to even consider turkish membership. i do not understand why some speakers say that turkey will join the european union anyway. this attitude is a perfect symbol of what is wrong with the european union. the inclusion of a non-european and islamic country in the european union is being advocated without any fundamental debate on this. we want to include a country which will be the largest member state in terms of population and in terms of area within 15 years. it will also become by far the largest net recipient, but the people of europe are not consulted at any time. the european parliament has been refusing to hold a referendum in the member states. the european parliament has already been given a mandate to vote on the report. in other words, they want to take fundamental decisions over the heads of the european citizen. the democratic deficit is being squashed. the bottom line is that turkey is not a european country and therefore does not belong in the european union. we have never had the courage to say that to the turks, but sooner or later we will have to. turkey must and can be helped as a friendly country, but this can be done perfectly well with an association agreement and in the framework of the neighbourhood policy.
mr president, both the latest interim report from the european commission and the opinions of the various committees of this parliament show that turkey has made important progress towards the copenhagen criteria. the country has made tremendous progress in recent years. i am thinking here of the abolition of the death penalty and the changed attitude towards the kurdish minority. all this is happening under a turkish government which at the time was feared to be transforming turkey into an islamic state. fortunately, the reality is different. the turkish government is unhesitatingly calling for good governance, greater transparency and equality between men and women. the experiment being carried out by the akp is unique and of global significance. the european union must not leave these signals unanswered and must offer a concrete prospect of accession as soon as possible, otherwise we risk facing the threat of an islamic fundamentalist state with which no dialogue is possible at our back door in the long run.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this report makes it clear that, although some progress has been made in the right direction, turkey still does not meet the copenhagen criteria. these criteria are the basic prerequisites for partnership and membership of the eu. it is an illusion to think that these criteria will be met by the autumn, and it is therefore too early to fix a date. the most important thing for us is that there can be no real democracy under the supervision of the army. it is also essential that the kurds should be able to exercise their rights as a cultural minority without hindrance. a constitutional state is unthinkable without an independent judiciary. although we are still not convinced that turkey should ultimately be a member of the eu, or that the eu can accept turkey as a member state, we do not want to rule out the possibility at this stage. this should also be discussed within the eu. a final decision in favour of an association agreement and against membership seems to us equally hasty. we want to continue to encourage the turks to move towards more democracy and greater respect for human rights, as well as greater autonomy for the kurds in their culture.
- mr president, multilingualism is guaranteed for better or for worse in the european legal order by the founding treaties and this guarantee, applying to every citizen of the union, naturally also protects the members of our parliament in the exercise of their duties. it follows that the rules of procedure of our assembly cannot in themselves derogate from an obligation which is established by the treaty and it will therefore be important, in the application of the provisions which we have adopted by mutual agreement, that the bureau should pay strict attention to the obligations which have become its own.
mr president, as you are aware, the resolution on the european council contains a lot of information. it again contains an approval of the draft european constitution, which would have led me - since i have not changed my mind in this respect - to vote against it. but there are so many other important and positive things in the resolution, particularly with regard to terrorism and the terrible attack in madrid, that i did not want to refuse to vote for it.
mr president, i regard mr bourlanges as one of the most cultured members of this house. i am therefore surprised at his peremptory statement that turkey is not a european country. to say that, mr bourlanges, is to say that byzantium is not european and never was. make the pilgrimage to ravenna and we'll discuss it. but the problem is not the past, the problem is the future. it is a question of whether or not we want turkey to be part of the european construction. it is not the lessons of history that will enlighten us, but our own will and the will of our peoples. i agree with mr bourlanges and many of my colleagues. i am one of those who wish to see discussions, including in our house, to enable a well-considered decision to be taken. i would say, however, that all those who have spoken today have spoken prematurely and at a time when all the reservations about turkey, whether they are justified or not, are undermining the difficult task which the community has undertaken with the united nations to find a solution to the cyprus problem. it is not the time to discuss these problems, let alone to take decisions, and that is why i have unreservedly supported the proposal put before us.
president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. waste prevention, reuse and recycling are all topics to which we have devoted considerable attention in recent years. i should like to thank mr florenz for his contribution to the debate and for his interesting report. the european directives have done a lot. we sort and collect our packaging waste and we ensure proper disposal of our appliances. there are now recycling plants all over europe, and people are working all over europe to recycle the waste that we all produce. it's hard work, and it's intense. but we must do this for the environment and we must continue to do so, because the waste mountain is still growing. we must not therefore turn a blind eye to some of the difficulties in european waste policy. firstly, the wide disparities in the implementation of the directive between the member states. sometimes this is due to laxity, but often it is also due to real difficulties, such as the lack of sales outlets. these differences in implementation also lead to competition problems. in some countries the government and the taxpayer collect the money, and the industry pays little. in other countries, the opposite is true. secondly, the environmental return. it's not always clear. we think recycling is good for the environment, but there's a limit to it. for example, if transport distances are too long, the environmental benefit becomes a disadvantage. thirdly, we are still not doing enough to prevent and reuse. packaging is important to protect the product, but a double layer of plastic around a small piece of bread is a bit excessive. the socialist group is not in favour of expressing prevention targets in terms of weight, because this encourages the use of lighter materials such as plastic, but we recognize that, for example in belgium, reuse targets certainly work well. germany too offers much inspiration with its deposit system. as regards the amendments, we wholeheartedly support all those which promote reuse and prevention, except those which express prevention in terms of a percentage, as in amendment no 13. as regards the definition of waste, i think we should have in mind the objective of reducing the environmental burden of production and consumption. this requires an examination of the whole chain, from raw material to waste. i do not think it is useful to argue constantly about the definitions of waste and prevention. i agree with mr florenz that waste recycling is an essential element of sustainable waste management. what we call it is of secondary importance. finally, i would like to make a comment on the economic and social aspects of waste prevention. our main theme is the environment, but there are other aspects to it, particularly economic and social. it is precisely these aspects that have been given too little attention, even though we have been talking about costs regularly in the committee on the environment recently. we have previously called for the establishment of a super commissioner for sustainable development. this is a good time to reiterate that plea. the lisbon objective needs a new impetus, and that must come from a new parliament and a new commissioner.
the fact that we are able to close this part-session with a debate on three important consumer issues is not merely symbolic. it also gives us the opportunity to stress once again that we really want to strengthen the human character of the internal market and it also gives us the opportunity to make it clear that the internal market is also for consumers and that we want and must increase consumer confidence. as regards the framework directive, our group takes the view that a high level of consumer protection is a prerequisite for the effective application of the principle of mutual recognition. we accept the restriction of the scope to the relationship between business and consumer. however, in order to make the link between this framework directive and the competition aspects clear to everyone, we would like to amend it. for our group, the average consumer remains the point of reference. we accept that there will be further amendments, but these amendments must not go so far as to abandon the option altogether. we also maintain that the blacklists of aggressive and misleading commercial practices must be explicitly exhaustive and that the harmonization objective of the directive must not be undermined. if the blacklists are amended, we believe that this should be done in accordance with the codecision procedure. we also maintain our view that a dual legal basis for the framework directive is not justified, not necessary and superfluous. we therefore follow the legal advice of our legal service and we agree with the reasons we have explained in the various committees before. mr president, we have passed many fine laws on consumer protection in this parliament and before. we have only been able to do that because of proposals from the commission. i therefore join all those who today wish to thank the commissioner for the proposals we have received, because without the commission's proposals we could not have done that work. of course, no matter how many fine laws we make, the rules stand or fall with their effective application and enforceability. i therefore very much support the commission's proposal to develop a network of administrative bodies to ensure the application of all these fine consumer directives. i think the commission's proposal is excellent. i hope that the members will reconsider the amendments, because i know that there are people in our group who would be very sorry if we ended up in an overly bureaucratic arrangement with a lot of red tape. that would make the case undigestible to us. so let us ensure that we approve the network proposal with as many votes as possible. let us ask the council to reconsider the matter. it is not always necessary for us to conform to the council's position. we are on the same page on a lot of things. let us ask the council to conform to parliament and to respect democracy.
first of all, mr president, i would like to thank mr sturdy for the good cooperation. this has enabled us to reach important compromises on a number of crucial points. i think it is good that there is a harmonized, simpler and more uniform legislation on pesticide residues. it would be even better if we could take the opportunity to raise the level of consumer protection. half of our fresh food contains pesticide residues, and there are increasing cases of multiple residues, up to 14 in one product. we therefore want to see more consideration given to vulnerable groups when setting mrls, by introducing additional safety factors and by introducing aggregated parameters for additives or synergistic effects. in this context, we have asked that mrls be established on the basis of best agricultural practices, in particular integrated farming methods using the lowest possible doses and spraying frequencies. not only does the setting of mrls need to change, but more and better residue studies are also needed. financial penalties for exceeding mrls should improve their enforcement. finally, i believe that consumers have a right to information on ingredients and therefore also a right to know what and how much pesticide residues they are exposed to. with measures like these we are contributing to healthier food of higher quality for everyone.
in writing. in the coming days, mr president, events will be held in various parts of the world to commemorate the turkish genocide against the armenian people. it is a genocide that has claimed the lives of over a million people. in the period 1915-1918, the turkish army evacuated almost all armenian villages within the ottoman empire. hundreds of thousands of civilians were killed immediately or later died in horrific circumstances during hunger marches to syria. it is the first genocide of the 20th century. however, to this day turkey refuses to recognize this genocide. that is a very important point for a candidate country. it is illustrative of the way the turkish government thinks about human rights today. i would remind you of the resolution voted by our own parliament in 1987 which clearly states that turkey cannot claim membership of the european union as long as it does not recognise the armenian genocide. i would urge you, mr president, to remind the commission and the council of that resolution, which is still valid.
in writing. - alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative diseases affect the european population heavily, namely according to current estimates: 5% of 50-60 year olds, 8 to 10% of 60-70 year olds and 10 to 20% of 70-80 year olds. these diseases that affect the brain are listed in third place in the sad hit parade of diseases, after cardiovascular disease, first place, and cancer, second place. alzheimer's disease and related diseases therefore affect millions of european citizens who are no longer able to manage themselves, not to mention their relatives who, when caring for these patients, have to significantly reduce or even stop their professional activities. these diseases have dramatic human, economic and social consequences for our society. in addition to the psychological suffering they cause, specialized care homes are almost non-existent, often too expensive for the patient or his family and not covered by the social system or by insurance. it is therefore urgent to develop, on all fronts, a genuine plan for the organized fight against this scourge which affects us all directly or indirectly. the economic and social burden of brain diseases accounts for 35% of the total disease burden in europe and is expected to increase further in the next 10 to 20 years. this should lead to a redefinition of policies in research, education, health care, prevention and social protection. since one third of the overall burden of disease is attributable to brain diseases, the following measures would be necessary. dedicate a significant share of life science research funding to the brain and its diseases, and in particular to alzheimer's disease. the 7th framework programme currently under negotiation should be drafted in this way. a significant share of health care expenditure (prevention, diagnosis, treatment) should be devoted to these diseases. to redirect medical study programmes proportionally towards these diseases. to set up a social protection system which provides material assistance (home care) and financial support for disabled people and their families. establish a european observatory for diseases of the brain. the scourge is so widespread and its impact on our society so severe that it is incumbent on the various european institutions - the commission, the european parliament, the council - and on the member states, each in its own right, to take all the measures in their power to combat, stop, prevent and help those who suffer from these neurodegenerative diseases, such as alzheimer's disease.
i am sorry that mr sterckx is not here, but that is the fate of a party leader. i would like to congratulate the commissioner on her work in the field of maritime safety. mr president, sending the weak prestige into the ocean in a storm was a capital blunder by the spanish government. the failure to admit mistakes was symptomatic of the asnar government and it is not surprising that this government has now been voted out. the cover-up was the result of a misunderstanding of democracy, which is still felt in galicia. i went with the volunteers to help clean up the oil myself. i support this report and hope that it will make this the last disaster of this magnitude. this report proposes measures. a european coastguard will play a crucial role in the future. i'm proud to be able to end with the cry: "nunqua maize" is the name of the cereal.
mr president, the main points have been said here and i understand the anger of my good friend mr turmes. a radical change in the pricing structures is needed to allow the internalisation of the social and environmental costs of transport. greenhouse gas emissions are mainly due to road transport. this is well known, and yet it was difficult to get others to see that this was not "truck-bullying". some texts speak of a dramatic increase in traffic and a corresponding dramatic increase in exhaust emissions. we simply cannot continue this drama in the same way. i would like to draw your attention to amendment no 24 by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. it looks like a new committee is being formed. i hope that when this committee is set up in a few years' time it will be able to consult properly with the ngos in the field of the protection of privacy and the environment.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal before us today is part of this package of measures and aims to make road transport measures, such as the one we have just discussed, more safe and to increase the frequency and quality of checks on compliance with social legislation in the road transport sector. this is a concrete response to the many requests made by parliament for greater control and compliance with social legislation by the road transport sector, particularly in the area of rest, since fatigue can at any given time become a risk factor and therefore affect safety. it is the only angle from which, as transport manager, i can take action in this field. the specific provisions set out in parliament's opinion following the first reading in january 2003 of the legislative proposal on driving and rest periods are a good example of parliament's concern and position on this matter. the commission has taken up many of the recommendations made by parliament last year, including the one on the control of working time rules, both on the road and on company premises. the proposal increases the percentage of checks, from 1% to 3%, of the working days of professional drivers, introduces various measures to improve the quality of control activities in the states and also establishes a common approach to the most serious infringements. the proposal also aims to ensure that all inspection services in the member states can apply the same type of sanctions, including restraint, restriction, suspension or even withdrawal of the driving licence or licence of the undertaking concerned. ladies and gentlemen, this proposal you have on the table should undoubtedly contribute to greater compliance with the current rules and thus to improving safety on european roads, all within the framework of promoting and continuing to support the reality of our internal market. i would ask, however, that this proposal not be turned into a catalogue of documents to be checked, that inspectors, especially those who are involved in road checks, are not given excessive data collection tasks, because simply by making a regulation which is difficult to enforce we are making a mistake: we must make a regulation which is, moreover, realistic and applicable.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the creation of the european internal market and the liberalisation of road transport in the european union have led to a huge growth in intra-community trade and a significant increase in transport between member states. the accession of the new member states will considerably intensify this development. and mr. turmes is right: in the white paper, the european commission noted that the rules on working conditions and rest periods in road haulage were not being fully respected. in addition, the european commission has noted a steady increase in the number of infringements in its biennial reports on the implementation of regulation 3820. ensuring that social rules are strictly applied in road transport is not only a matter of social and competition policy but is also of crucial importance for road safety. this is evidenced by the large number of accidents involving buses and lorries, which are mainly due to non-compliance with these regulations. the commission proposal should aim to modernise enforcement measures, improve the quality of inspection methods and increase the quantity of control measures. we have already agreed in previous debates that a directive or regulation only makes sense if it is also monitored. what are the main changes that the commission and the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism propose to make to the current arrangements? i would like to make a positive observation that the proposed directive is not only to apply to employed drivers but also to self-employed drivers. the directive also introduces special controls on micro-enterprises on farms. the scope of on-the-spot checks has been considerably extended, for example to cover weekly driving times, cumulative driving times during two consecutive weeks, weekly rest periods and compensation periods. this will significantly improve both social standards and road safety. the commission has not taken into account in its proposal what parliament has said at first reading on the enforcement of rest and driving times for professional drivers. the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism has, however, agreed to incorporate parliament's proposals from the first reading into the present proposal, in particular the definition of the driver, the scope of the directive and the subject of the checks. i am well aware of the difficulties involved in delaying the introduction of the digital tachograph. unfortunately, there are no firm commitments from industry to date that there will be enough equipment available at the scheduled date. in this respect, i think the committee's solution acceptable, namely to increase the controls to 2% instead of 3% as originally envisaged, as already stated in my report on the revision of regulation 3820, but in conjunction with the option of further increasing the controls with the introduction of the digital tachograph. i very much regret that a narrow majority of the committee did not follow my proposal to reduce the thresholds for classifying serious infringements. it is true that colleagues have agreed to reduce the maximum weekly working time from 20% to 10%. i am particularly struck by the fact that the percentage reduction was not observed when the maximum and minimum driving times were exceeded or the minimum interruption was exceeded. it is therefore to be feared that this is a direct invitation to drivers and companies not to comply with the legal standards. that is why we have tabled the motions again, and i would ask you to help us to get a majority. finally, i would like to highlight the good cooperation with the rapporteur responsible for the committee on employment and social affairs, mrs schroedter, in the context of enhanced cooperation. i would also like to thank the relevant staff of the commission and the secretariat of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, and in particular mr hauck, for their very effective and helpful support. the representatives of the various trade union organizations, business associations and the police authorities responsible for monitoring compliance with social legislation are also to be thanked for their valuable information on the practical implementation of such a directive.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur on behalf of the epp for his work. this directive repeals the 1988 directive. it is a question of control in social legislation. the adjustment was more than necessary because in the meantime a great deal had been done in the field of the regulatory framework as such, but also in the field of the technical possibilities of control. we all agree on one point, namely that social measures are essentially intended to improve working conditions, to avoid market distortions and also to improve safety, and that the guidelines we have drawn up in this respect only make sense if they are implemented and controlled. as border residents between belgium and germany, where we see several thousand lorries passing each day, we know that transport is cross-border and requires solutions at european level. not only the drivers, but also the companies expect that they will be taxed and controlled in the same way in different countries. a few days before enlargement, this directive has a special significance in my view. it is partly a response to the question whether this enlargement will lead to market distortions due to differences in working conditions in the various countries. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to combat this. we agree on the basic considerations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the rapporteur has just mentioned this, and it also concerns the division between road and factory inspections. these controls are designed to be efficient and not to overburden the farms. the data to be checked are of course the driving and resting times. as regards working hours, we are well aware that unfortunately the interpretation of the rules varies so much from one member state to another that in some cases it is rather difficult to control this correctly from one country to another. sanctions as such have also been part of a debate about what is and is not to be considered serious. but it is clear that there must be exchange between countries, that the inspectors must check uniformly and that their equipment must be correct. in conclusion, i would say that this directive raises a very fundamental question in my eyes: are all these details we are discussing here necessary? would these details be necessary if member states were to put into practice the belief that directives only work if they are controlled? almost all member states have their sights set on safety, improving working conditions and reducing unfair competition. why do not all member states carry out the same checks and why do not all member states give the control authorities the same technical facilities as would be required? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
the committee on foreign affairs, human rights and common security and defence policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, in telegraphic style, first of all, congratulations to mr wynn on his report. on behalf of the afet committee, i have four points to make. the first is the fear that a budget that is too tight will actually prevent the european union from playing its role on the international stage. the second point is that, while we have supported a transparent, flexible and simplified budget, we also strongly want the european parliament to be able to keep a check on it before any decision is taken. we therefore call for a budget allocation for external relations that is both thematic and geographical. the third point is the fight against poverty. it seems to us that in the world today, one of the ways to prevent terrorism, but not the only way, is also to eradicate poverty. so this is one of our priorities. the fourth point is that we want relations with the arab world to be maintained and broadened with enlargement and the barcelona process and the neighbourhood policy to be relaunched. it's also our last priority.
the commission. on the question of cooperation with the criminal court, i would like to confirm once again that the judgment on whether croatia is fully cooperative in this cooperation can only be made by the criminal court itself. we are not in a position to make a judgment here on our own knowledge and experience, and - as chris patten has just said - we have agreed to the international criminal court itself as the arbiter on this issue and we now have a clear picture. if this clear picture were to change in the future through the opinions of the criminal court, this would have repercussions on the process we are initiating with croatia today. it is self-evident, and i repeat that this cooperation with the criminal court must not be considered satisfactory only once, but must of course continue. i can only say, with regard to mrs pack's question, that, to my knowledge, the european council intends to deal with this question in june. but this is a question for the irish presidency to decide. the commission will not interfere in any way. we have timed the submission of our report to give the council sufficient time to prepare and then to take its decision at the european council in june. the european council, as i know it, is always grateful for the guidance and advice it receives from the european parliament. i didn't mean that ironically. i am sure that such a reference from the european parliament would be helpful.
president. - as co-chairman of the social affairs committee of the stability pact for south-east europe, i am naturally pleased that croatia has the prospect of accession. i have always wondered, especially in the socioeconomic sphere, that romania and bulgaria could join in 2007 and croatia, which is more advanced in the socioeconomic sphere, could not. i have two specific questions. firstly, the technical assistance office for the western balkans was to become operational in march. my question is: has that finally happened? the european parliament has been promising to do some things for a long time, but it usually takes a very long time. my second question concerns the regional social policy coordination centre for the balkans. that was supposed to be installed somewhere this year, too. my question is: where will this happen, when will this happen, and so on?
to replace the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am here to replace heide rühle, the real rapporteur, who unfortunately cannot present her report herself. i would like to join mr mulder in his words and i too would like to thank mrs schreyer for the commitment she has shown over the last five years and for the courage with which she has entered the debate. although we belong to the same political family, we have not always been in agreement. we sometimes had differences of opinion, but i have always greatly appreciated the way in which we have been able to work with the whole of parliament. i would like to thank you very much for that, mrs schreyer. ladies and gentlemen, just a few days before enlargement we are debating the implementation of the budget of the european coal and steel community for the financial year ending on 23 july 2002. let us be frank and frank, the ecsc was the first concrete cooperation in europe between partners who had fought bloody wars against each other three times in the previous sixty years. wars that have caused great personal suffering and millions of needless casualties. the stories of my own grandfather, who, as a young married man, fought in the trenches of the iron curtain near ypres in the war of 1914-1918, and the stories of his experiences in our family have always affected me very strongly. they have made me a convinced pacifist, a convinced flamingo and also a convinced european. the cooperation between france and germany began with cooperation in the two major industrial sectors of the time, coal and steel, and was later extended to economic cooperation and a european agricultural policy. all in all, this cooperation has ensured that we have been living in peace here in the european union for 60 years. i think that this should be emphasized very explicitly, especially in the run-up to the european elections on 10 and 13 june. the report by mr rühle, which is before us today, is not controversial. there are no amendments to it either. the report rightly pays tribute to the merits of all those who founded and shaped the ecsc and thus made a very concrete contribution to the unification of europe. the ecsc is now, after fifty years of operation, in liquidation. the ruhle report clearly indicates what action the commission and the court of auditors will have to take in the coming months and years. commissioner, the european parliament is counting on this to be done very carefully and that will also be shown by the vote tomorrow afternoon.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i am very pleased that the house has the proposal from the committee on budgetary control to grant the commission discharge for the 2002 budget and to close the accounts. the draft discharge decision highlights the thorough work of the european court of auditors and the excellent professional and comprehensive report of the rapporteur, mr bayona. the european parliament's resolution on discharge for 2002 is thus a true balance sheet and a guide for further action. this is in line with the intention of the treaty and the financial regulation. i would like to congratulate mr bayona on his extremely comprehensive report, which is almost a compendium, and i would like to thank him very warmly on behalf of the commission. i also welcome, on behalf of the commission, the reports by mr sjöstedt on the european development fund, by mr mulder on the agencies and by mrs rühle, mr staes on the ecsc. all the reports recommend discharge, are thorough and detailed and give the commission a wide range of recommendations on how to further improve financial management in these areas. the draft decision on discharge expressly recognises the work done by the commission in the reform. the commission's proposals are not, however, a mere attempt to make the community more flexible. that is, with respect, incomprehensible. let us take stock of the situation and recall what it was like five years ago. the report by the independent experts of the council, the european court of auditors and the vast majority of the european parliament unanimously concluded that it was not enough to make some adjustments to the management of the european commission, but that a fundamental reform and modernisation was needed. the prodi commission has taken up this task with great determination from the outset. the white paper on reform, adopted in the spring of 2000, contains 98 measures, and i can now say that 95 of the defined actions have been implemented and that the implementation of the remaining three actions is well advanced. what are the key elements of this reform? firstly, the regulatory framework for human and financial management has been completely renewed. secondly, the whole of budgetary management - from the establishment of the budget to the structure of the budget, from budget implementation to budgetary control and accounting - has been fundamentally reformed. thirdly, rules and organisational structures must be made effective by people, and the prodi commission, with the support of the european parliament, has not only remedied blatant shortcomings in the staffing of financial managers, controllers and auditors, but has above all made financial management and internal auditing a profession in the commission in the first place. in 2003 alone, 7100 participants took part in the financial sector training courses. 29 courses have been offered here, and more will be added in 2004. this is all window dressing? let me go into some of the details. the modern rules: the prodi commission has redesigned, negotiated and introduced two key management frameworks. the first is the staff regulations: after four years of hard work, this proposal was finally adopted by the council in march under the leadership of neil kinnock and his team. we now have a fundamentally new, merit-based civil service statute in all the european institutions. i would also like to mention the new arrangements, such as the regular rotation of senior officials and officials in sensitive positions, which are now being introduced. the second is the new financial regulation: allow me to take a little pride in the fact that this work, a fundamental new financial regulation, has been achieved in two and a half years. the old budgetary system was 25 years old. i am glad that we have achieved this together, the commission, parliament, all the member states and the european court of auditors. it is an excellent work by the committees of this house and the council's committee on budgets. we now have a new structure of financial management, a transparent legal framework for grants and for public procurement, clear definitions of the responsibilities of financial actors and, if necessary, of sanctions. of course, i was particularly pleased to hear the praise from transparency international. all this makes the financial regulation a big deal. the management and control structures required modernisation, some of which date back to the founding of the european institutions. in financial management we had central control of the commitment and payment order. this was a relic of the time when the budget was small, when it hardly mattered. the main weakness was that the responsibility was shifted from the directorate-general for the management of intermediate-rate finances to this central financial control. it was high time to change that. we now have at last, at european level, a responsibility for correct and economic management, which is generally taken for granted by the executive bodies of the member states, namely that the responsibility for sound financial management lies with those who manage the funds. as authorising officers by delegation, the directorates-general now have a clear responsibility to ensure that the appropriate financial circuits are in place within their directorates-general. and of course, this decentralization on the one hand requires that on the other hand, we have to set the same standards for financial management, and that's what we've done. by the end of 2003, 90% of the dgs had met these standards. the setting of uniform standards for financial management was no small thing, but amounted to a cultural revolution in this international organization. each director-general shall draw up an annual activity report on the management of the funds entrusted to him and shall give an account of his activities in that report. he must provide an explanation of any deficiencies in his field of knowledge and of the measures taken to remedy them. these reports are sent to parliament and made publicly available on the internet. please give me other examples of such transparency. the commission's handling of the eurostat case is also an example of transparency. where is this coming from, that an executive, in the case of irregularities dating from before its mandate, has so ruthlessly investigated, exposed and drawn conclusions from the errors? the prodi commission - my colleague has said it again today on behalf of the commission - acted immediately when it became aware of the scale of the problems. and of course there were political risks involved, but the motto of this commission was and is zero tolerance for fraud. this currency is no guarantee that fraud will not take place. but it's the guarantee that nothing, nothing at all, is swept under the carpet, but exposed and acted upon. and that is precisely the responsibility that the prodi commission has assumed. two offices played a major role in the elaboration of the eurostat case. first, the office of the internal auditor. the office was re-created in 2000 and was subordinate from the outset to the vice-president of the commission, underlining its importance. secondly, we have olaf, the european anti-fraud office, whose main task is to detect fraud and irregularities within and outside the institution with complete independence by means of administrative investigations. the commission has also been active in the fight against fraud, and has been involved in the fight against fraud in the member states. last but not least, let me mention the reform of accounting and bookkeeping as an essential element of the reform, although i can go into much more detail in the quarterly reports i present to you. it is an important component of modernisation. the modernisation of accounting will bring substantial improvements: the introduction of accrual accounting, alignment with international accounting standards, the generation of all accounting data from an integrated system. the commission has already done a great deal of work on this project in the last 15 months, as mr bayona de perogordo, mr sørensen and other members of the committee have seen. we are on track to meet the high standards of the financial regulation in 2005 and from the beginning of 2005 . i would like to make this point again. the modernisation is a cutting-edge project for public sector accounting. many of the commission's measures are the result of proposals and requests from parliament, particularly the committee on budgetary control. the reform was carried out by hundreds of people, commission officials, members of parliament, staff of the court of auditors, the council. the report by mr bayona de perogordo shows the extent of the reform. is there anything left to do? i'm sure you do. this is also reflected in the report by mr bayona de perogordo. i would just like to mention the amendment to the olaf regulation - it is on the table - and i would also like to mention, above all, the project to set up a european public prosecutor to protect the financial interests of the european union. this project should finally be given the opportunity to be realized. the new constitution of the union should finally lay the foundations for a european public prosecutor. if this is finally achieved, it will be above all a success of mrs theato's work. you have been a consistent and competent advocate of this. they have had a major influence on the work of the european parliament in the field of budgetary control and have become synonymous with european parliamentary budgetary control. i would like to thank you very much, on behalf of the commission and personally, for your critical but very good cooperation. the prodi commission was the first european commission to treat its management and administrative tasks as equivalent to its conceptual and negotiating tasks. it has thus, with the active participation and encouragement of parliament, the court of auditors and the council, created the conditions for management in the commission in the 21st century. this management will have to prove itself in a union with 25 or 27 or more member states, with 20 or more official languages, with ever new tasks and expenditure assigned to the union. i am convinced that the reform work carried out by the commission has provided a sound basis for this and i would like to thank the european parliament very much for its support of this process.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. madam commissioner, speaking on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, i am going to make three comments which are obviously intended for the next budget and not for the previous one, because that is over. firstly, the commission and the european parliament decided long ago that gender budgeting would be applied to the budget. i note that this did not happen in 2002. there is a good report by fiorella ghilardotti, who gives a very technical explanation of what gender budgeting could be. it is already being applied in a number of states, so it should be possible for the european commission to apply it as well. secondly, i am pleased that the women's programme has been opened up to the acceding countries. we want an evaluation of what has happened in the accession countries in connection with this programme, and we want gender budgeting to be applied to all community programmes for the accession countries.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, i have three comments. first and foremost, a comment for you, mrs theato. mr kuhne said that he had only seen half of you in this parliament. i've seen both halves of you. the first half as an employee, the second as an mp. many times our eyes have crossed in committee meetings. i often begged for some attention to speak. i thank you for the way you have led our committee and i say with all my colleagues: you'll be fine in your next life. my second comment concerns the report by mr van hulten. i think mr hulten's report is very good. he has rightly paid great attention to the follow-up to my report on discharge, which was adopted last year. my report also paid great attention to the seat of parliament, our travelling theatre, and to the fact that we have to work in three different locations. i think this is untenable. the ppe has tabled a number of amendments to delete those paragraphs. i hope that we, together with the other groups, will be able to prevent these amendments from being adopted. there's also a section on the relationship with the neighbors. i would like to stress very strongly, ladies and gentlemen, that this is of the utmost importance. we are coming to brussels, we are not living on a foreign planet. there is far too little contact between the colleagues and officials and the neighbours. we must have a much more constructive dialogue with the inhabitants of the leopold quarter. finally, the eurostat case. i am a little surprised that we have to have a special debate on this. we have a debate tomorrow on a compromise resolution which will probably contain almost all the texts which we have already adopted as a parliament. i share the view of jan mulder on political responsibility. mr kuhne says: we need to have more intercultural understanding. i think that in the hearings after the new parliament has been elected we should ask the new commissioners very specifically what they mean by political responsibility, so that we do not have to go through what we have had to go through with mr solbes in recent years.
president, ladies and gentlemen, unlike many other non-italian colleagues in the committee who are not by chance members of the moralising left, i do not wish to interfere in the internal affairs of a sovereign member of the union and i do not wish to make empty accusations against its legitimate government. as a fleming, i can only see the hypocrisy with which the champions of selective indignation once again think they have to give the italian government lessons in democracy. the rapporteur has set an example for them today, however, and i would urge her to investigate the systematic boycott of the opposition in my country, belgium, by the public broadcaster. the reporter might discover how the prime minister of my country is pressuring an editor-in-chief to report positively on the government. it could discover how the public broadcasting, in a kind of pravda-like slavery, is only serving to guarantee the cult of the star of that prime minister. it could note how the foreign minister recently tried to prevent the broadcast of a documentary on the crimes of belgium and the royal family in the former congo colony. finally, she could mention how my party, the flemish bloc, which represents 18% of the electorate, is being sued by a heavily subsidised public body for a pure opinion offense. that's a violation of freedom of speech. i do not find them in this report, however. this is not a balanced report that is genuinely concerned about any shortcomings within the union in the area of freedom of expression. this report is an attempt to intimidate the left, which cannot accept that the italian electorate has not voted politically correctly.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that europe has managed in helsinki to offer turkey the prospect of accession to the european union without requiring as a conditio sine qua non that it must immediately and unconditionally put an end to the illegal occupation of northern cyprus is a sign of the almost criminal recklessness of the european council. in cyprus, europe is simply putting the sacred principle of free movement of persons, which our union has stood for for decades, on ice for a moment. i can therefore only understand the unyielding attitude of the greek cypriots and their president papadopoulos, who reject the half-hearted compromise of the un secretary-general and will vote no in the referendum on the reunification of their island in three days' time. but this is not a reunification, because the turkish occupation continues. the military border remains, the 100,000 turkish settlers are allowed to remain in cyprus, the turkish army remains, and the cypriots do not become eu citizens with the same rights as others, because they are restricted in their property rights and in their right to enterprise. in short, the annan plan perpetuates and legalizes the turkish occupation. i therefore wish to express my full support for the greek cypriots and to reiterate that we believe that islamic turkey should never be allowed to join the european union. (applause from the left)
- the president, mr commissioner and mr president-in-office of the council, the coexistence of two peoples and two cultures in one country is often a delicate matter. it involves not only reason but also emotions. the annan plan is a good plan, but it's the solution to reason. but the cypriots are not only choosing with their minds, they are also choosing with their hearts. thirty years of occupation is a long time. i heard a radio broadcast in which a turkish cypriot girl was interviewed. she said that when she was a kid, she thought that the house across the street was all men. we call on the cypriots to say yes to the annan plan, because we are convinced that it will bring peace, reconciliation and a future for them too. but do the people have enough confidence in the countries which are to guarantee the implementation of this plan? turkey, greece and the united kingdom, have they not always had their own agendas in the history of cyprus? has there been enough work on trust between people during those 30 years? we call on the cypriots to vote 'yes', but let us remember that it is important to win the confidence of the population in view of the accession of some other balkan countries. i just heard mr. verheugen say: 'we are organising the accession of cyprus to the eu, but greece must make the unity of cyprus possible.' i'm a little freaked out by that. where are the people of cyprus in all this? well, that people will speak. we call on them to say 'yes', but even if they do not yet have enough confidence, we must build on that confidence and ensure that the process of unification succeeds and that what is not possible today can become possible tomorrow.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as vice-chairman of the delegation to israel, i am deeply ashamed of the unilateral policy of prime minister sharon, who is throwing more and more oil on the fire in the middle east. in fact, it is all over the world, because this is not an isolated conflict, on the contrary. the unlawful executions of hamas leaders will have a boomerang effect and new leaders are always ready. sharon can only do this because he has the unconditional support of president bush. what was agreed in washington is an insult to the quartet partners and to the eu in particular. as far as i know, there has been no consultation with the european union. we as a parliament must ask javier solana to strike a hard blow at the quartet. if the americans are now seeking support for iraq, they must also come across the bridge with support for an international force in gaza, if it is already being evacuated, and in the west bank as the next step. solana could also put the geneva agreement on the table. colin powell has agreed to that and he supports it. that too must now be clarified. i quote abraham borg, who was in this house yesterday: "with the road map we must end up in geneva. i think we can send a signal to the palestinian people by asking for an increase in the humanitarian aid we give to the impoverished population.
mr president, there were various amendments which deserved consideration, but any amendment would have led to a conciliation procedure which would certainly have risked a fundamental change and would have also ensured no less important delays. that is why i did not support any of the amendments, but not the proposal for a link between italy and sicily, which i supported.
in the light of the above, i would ask the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the programme is implemented in a way that is compatible with the objectives of the community. enlargement will ensure political continuity until new measures are developed in the light of the new financial perspective. when the extension of the life programme was first discussed, the court of auditors informed the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy that an audit had been carried out in eight member states. this audit apparently revealed that when private bodies use eu support to buy land for their nature reserves, there are insufficient guarantees that these areas will continue to be managed sensibly after the end of the support period. however, there were no specific examples. the proposal by the court of auditors that private bodies should in future be excluded from receiving eu aid for the purchase of nature reserves did not receive the support of parliament, and i welcome that. the court of auditors is of course in its right to make suggestions to us. we cannot accept abuse under any circumstances, but that does not mean that private bodies which function satisfactorily should be affected. we cannot and must not let down the many thousands of volunteers in the european union who are tirelessly devoting their energies to the management of nature reserves. we should encourage these people instead of the opposite. i am very pleased that i have made an effort to ensure that functioning environmental organisations can continue to receive eu support for the purchase of nature reserves in the future.
- although elected by the people of the belgian regions of wallonia and brussels, mr president, i have, as always, supported the continuation of the european parliament's activities in strasbourg. my support is based on my conviction that the presence of the european parliament in strasbourg, despite the passing of the years and even despite the enlargements that are taking place and those that are to take place, retains considerable symbolic value. it's all too easy to think that old wounds are gone because they're not mentioned anymore. history should instead warn us of the ability of the past to resurface, and sometimes abruptly, when we least expect it. that is why everyone in europe, and above all the young people, need the presence of european democracy to be maintained in the capital of alsace.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i have not voted today for or against the directive on unfair trading practices. it is not because i am opposed to this type of legislation in principle, but because it is the 117th compromise that has been put forward with regard to the internal market. four years after the lisbon summit, i can see that no major progress has been made. every day parliament speaks of following the lisbon strategy, but when it actually has the option of choosing the implementation of the internal market through mutual recognition and, if possible, the greatest possible harmonization, it backs away from it. when we talk about the consumer, emotions flare up. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. in my view, the current legislative proposal does not yet strike the right balance.
- mr president, since the war in iraq, transatlantic relations have soured. this has created a lot of tension within the current european union. it seems that these tensions will not diminish after enlargement, especially in the initial phase. this is a particularly regrettable finding, because it is my conviction that europe is mistaken in its enemy. the debate is not about how europe can counterbalance the power of the united states, but about how we can best combat international terrorism. in my view, the only way to effectively tackle terrorism is through transatlantic solidarity and collective action. that is why the political leaders of europe have an important role to play. the european parliament must in particular emphasize more forcefully how much europe has to lose in the event of continuing tension and how much it has to gain in the event of effective cooperation with the united states. i take this message to say goodbye to the european parliament.
- mr president, this morning, when i listened to mr patten, i was struck by the fact that he said that, at the end of his five years as commissioner, he considered the international situation to be more dangerous than it was five years ago. i agree with that. perhaps it should be stressed more than we do in this resolution that one of the components of this dangerousness is the unilateral policy and, above all, the new american doctrine of unilateralism. i think that is very much lacking in the motion for a resolution. that is why we support most of the amendments tabled. i will take three very concrete examples of expectations from the eu. we did indeed hear mr burg and mr abed-rabbo yesterday in the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. there was a very explicit request that the european union and the foreign ministers support the geneva initiative much more strongly than they have done so far. there was also a call for the european union to be proactive in supporting free organisations, under international control, in palestine. these points should be clearly stated in our draft resolution. finally, i would also like the european union to pay more attention to international studies. some of them have been mentioned. this summer, a report was published under the auspices of the international labour organisation, which made concrete proposals for good economic governance and rules on globalisation. if we do not understand, as we have often said here and as commissioner patten has also often said, that the fight against poverty is one of the fundamental elements of the fight against terrorism, and if we do not follow the recommendations of the international reports in which we ourselves participate, we lose all credibility. this is the kind of message that needs to be sent to the bush administration as well.
- mr president, my report deals with four subjects which i shall briefly discuss. the first theme is the human rights record of the legislature. it's in half shade. it welcomed the cooperation established with the council and stressed the influence of parliament in the fight against all forms of discrimination, against the death penalty, for women's rights and for freedom of belief and conscience. but it regrets that too many of these resolutions remain unenforced and that the dialogue on human rights in some countries is empty of any substance and without effect. one example is the tragic case of leyla zana, the sakharov prize winner, whose conviction was confirmed today by the turkish judiciary in an unfair trial. perhaps in the future we should build a genuine human rights governance in partnership with the country concerned, a partnership that respects its culture but with specific objectives and timelines, as was recently initiated in bangladesh and could be in the future in morocco and vietnam. the second theme is terrorism. the report unequivocally condemns all forms of terrorism. it stressed the need to organise the fight against this scourge. the council also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. the report highlights violations of this right which, because of the sense of injustice and despair they generate, can constitute an even more fertile ground for terrorism. the third theme is reproductive health. it's a little-known area of health. let us remember that in the last century we spoke of shameful diseases and, in anatomy, of the nerve that runs through the genital areas, of the shameful nerve. what is shameful today is not this nerve, but the fact that in the 21st century, men and women around the world are still deprived of sex education, access to information and effective contraceptive methods that allow them to choose and spaced the number of their children according to their desires, avoid sexually transmitted diseases and prevent aids. when we see the terrifying spread of aids in africa, in the countries of asia, in eastern europe, and even, as you know, in some of the countries that are candidates for membership of the union, we see the urgency of the response. when we see up close, as i have personally seen, the sexual misery in the camps of refugees and displaced persons - i would remind you that there are today 37 million displaced persons in the world, of whom more than 65% are women and girls, that these women and girls are often raped, infected with aids, forced to sell their bodies for food rations and that many lose their lives by having abortions in an artisanal way - when we see this - i appeal to mr gahler on behalf of the epp - we understand that contraception is a real instrument of survival. in fighting for reproductive health today, i am not fighting against any spiritual leader whose right to guide his followers i recognize. i'm fighting against some blind policies, like the one of president bush, who, by cutting funding to the reproductive health program including condom contraception, is going to kill thousands and thousands of people. i'm actually fighting for the right to life and the dignity of the body. fourth theme: the rights of disabled people. these people are trying to live as individuals and their rights, as we know, are still being violated in the countries of the union. but what about the exclusion of these disabled people outside the union's borders, their marginalization, sometimes even their confinement in institutions and in inhuman conditions? the epp, in the person of mr gahler, accused me of going too far on this subject and giving too much detail. one detail, mr gahler, the fact that disabled people represent 10% of the world's population and that this proportion is rising alarmingly in the third world under the cumulative effect of poverty and armed conflict? a detail when the epp wants to delete paragraphs 71, 72, 73, 77, 78, 79 and 80? a detail, the right to education, mobility, accessibility and the right simply to start a family? one detail, that of supporting programmes to treat children suffering from psychiatric disorders in conflict, this paragraph 78 which we want to strike out with a stroke of the pen? these are details which will no doubt be of particular interest to disabled people and those who support them. this report is a report of conviction, not provocation. it is true that he has a broad view of human rights in the world. but it is a vision of hope in a world torn apart, and i would not like to end without thanking all the groups who, with the exception of the epp, supported me in this vision.
- mr president, i have the unpleasant feeling that the fight against terrorism is as big a problem for the rapporteur as terrorism itself. this comment was made repeatedly during the committee's discussion of the report. it was certainly denied, but the final version of the report could not take away this feeling from me. formal condemnation of terrorism - there is still no indication that it is not - and then many paragraphs devoted to the human rights of terrorists or those accused of terrorist acts. the israeli-palestinian conflict is also lacking in nuance, and palestinian terrorist attacks are mentioned in the same breath as, for example, the construction of the security wall. we as the european parliament must begin to reflect seriously on the usefulness of such reports. we are talking about a report on human rights in the world, and that means the world outside the european union, whereas we should perhaps also sweep our own doorstep. today, the court in belgium is ruling in a case against the main flemish opposition party, the flemish bloc. this case was brought by a public authority in which all the traditional parties are represented, including the rapporteur of this report. what we are witnessing in belgium is the instrumentalisation of the fight against racism, or what must be done to prevent it, in order to restrict the right to freedom of expression. a few weeks before the elections, an attempt is being made to deprive a democratic opposition party of its funding and even to have it de facto banned by a court. you will understand, mr president, that i have my reservations when someone who approves of such practices is today the rapporteur of a report on human rights in the world.
- mr president, madam commissioner, my group, by a very large majority, does not support the initiative of a motion of censure against the commission. we do not think this is the right move, because it is completely disproportionate to vote for the commission's resignation every time we discover and acknowledge problems of mismanagement. in addition to individual disciplinary measures, what is needed is to strengthen the independence, powers and resources of olaf and to give the commission as a whole the human and financial means to fulfil its tasks. the reforms undertaken by the commission are moving in this direction, as the commissioner has just mentioned, and the european parliament has made specific recommendations in several resolutions, which we expect to be implemented. in the historic period which is opening up, mr president, of a union of 25, when we must succeed in enlargement, our group believes that we need a competent european executive and civil service subject to permanent democratic control by our parliament.
- mr president, i would like to speak because i think, of course, that the outcome of this trial is inadmissible. we've been through this twice. the supreme court, at the request of europe and the european court of human rights, has resumed the trial. the verdict is exactly the same. i think we could not be more disappointed and in the face of such a mess, i think there is nothing more to say. i went to see leyla zana in 1995 in her prison in ankara, with the other kurdish prisoners, prisoners of opinion, it should be remembered. that was the year we were supposed to vote on the customs union. i was very puzzled and thought that perhaps we should give turkey a chance, because i was in favour of its future membership. i went there to see how things were going in that country, and i wanted to give it a chance by voting for this customs union. i thought that maybe it would have an influence on respect for human rights, respect for minorities, freedom of expression! i must now say that unfortunately things have not changed for the better. i am, however, in favour of turkey's membership of the european union. however, i regret that it continues to commit these human rights violations and i insist that a considerable effort be made otherwise i fear that membership will be in jeopardy.
- madam president, commissioner, my colleagues will not be surprised if i tell you right away that i almost completely disagree with the speech of my esteemed liberal colleague. i think that at the end of this parliamentary term it is time to take a brief look at economic policy in the european union. economic policy has a lisbon agenda whose philosophy could be shared, but whose implementation is in fact deeply unbalanced, since it focuses all the attention on the liberalization of sectors and leaves behind the social and environmental objectives that are included. but there is also one aspect that is absolutely lacking, namely macroeconomic policy at the level of the european union, which in fact does not exist, except through a stability pact. the policy pursued in recent years, notably by france and germany, has been to make efforts in the area of fiscal policy, with the aim of reducing deficits and debt, while simultaneously reducing government revenue, in the hope of settling all this by a rise in growth. that scenario didn't work. we have very low growth, rising unemployment and increasing income inequality between social groups, without reducing exclusion and poverty, in one of the richest areas of the world. i think there are alternatives. we have discussed this, but without success, or at any rate without a majority, in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. there are alternatives, which include, of course, making efforts in terms of supply, but also making substantial efforts in terms of expenditure. is it normal for european savings to finance an increase in military spending in the united states? i put the problem in these terms, and that is how it should be put. there is therefore room for a neo-keynesian policy of recovery, which fully builds on the dimension of the internal market in a union of 25 and the need to increase public and private investment. the growth initiative may be moving in the right direction, but it is insufficient in terms of volume and quality. we need coordination of the budgetary policies of the member states, standards of convergence in social and environmental matters, particularly in terms of working conditions, wage increases - i say wage increases - and environmental matters. finally, i would like to conclude on the tax question. this is a point we have discussed a great deal. i would simply like to say to my colleague mr schmidt that i was struck by a dispatch from afp, a statement by the swedish prime minister, mr persson, which said that if the candidate countries continue to reduce corporate tax as they have done, we will no longer agree to finance these candidate countries through the structural funds. we should think about this kind of observation and i say, and i weigh my words: people who do not want to subject corporate taxation to the qualified majority system in the european constitution are irresponsible and will have to face increasingly severe tax competition scenarios, which will unravel our social protection systems.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) culture is an area that falls under the highly praised but little used subsidiarity category, in which europe should not interfere as much as possible. in reality, european cultural policy should be nothing more than encouragement in the form of support, for example when a city is designated as a cultural capital. the rapporteur has drawn attention to a number of practical problems in the system for selecting cultural capitals. we all agree that we must find a fairer way of ensuring that all member states have an equal opportunity to promote their culture, especially after the enlargement which will take place in a few weeks' time. the idea of two cultural capitals seems to be a sensible choice. at the european summit in brussels last week, belgium was not considered for the appointment of a director of the ecb. the large member states allocate the items among themselves. there is no real respect for the smaller member states, but rather a mere eye-service. i hope that the symbolism of the european capitals will not follow the same path. it is simply a wish that i would like to express here.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the media are not used for political purposes. but this report is not balanced at all. the title itself suggests that freedom of expression and information is under threat in italy under the berlusconi government. it's too far out. practically all varieties of political opinion in italy are represented by their own newspapers. rai, the state broadcaster, allows for both the majority and opposition views. even berlusconi's own media is critical of the government. in belgium, where the media, like in many other member states, is concentrated in a few hands, we can only dream of such a thing. a certain section of the left is very unhappy that they cannot completely monopolize the media. the existence of a right-wing or apparently right-wing counterbalance in the media is seen by them as an unacceptable provocation. that is the spirit of this report.
in writing. - i would like to stress the legitimacy of the report. indeed, one of the tasks of the european parliament is to use its legitimacy as the representative of the citizens of the union to constantly promote and defend fundamental rights. however, freedom of expression and information implies media pluralism, especially for the audiovisual media. we are therefore faced with a real european problem, because this media pluralism, which is essential for both cultural diversity and democracy, is still not secured! the italian example, characterized by a person who has almost total control of the media in his capacity as prime minister or private business owner, is unfortunately only the most conspicuous and caricatured example of what we all risk being exposed to if action is not taken quickly. in this respect, one can only wonder at the commission and the council, which do not hesitate to intervene forcefully to dismantle the public railway service, for example - as we are seeing again today - in the name of fighting monopolies in the single market and so-called benefits for users, but which appear paralysed when it comes to preventing private monopolies in the field of television!
- mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mrs karamanou on her excellent report on the situation of women in south-east europe. indeed, equal opportunities for men and women in this region merits our greatest attention in the face of certain problems arising from the exploitation of women in all its forms. the trafficking of human beings in south-east europe is our greatest concern and concern. unfortunately, many women are the main victims of this vile traffic. the countries of the region are therefore called upon to take all necessary measures to put an end to modern slavery. for my part, it is true that the fight against trafficking in women is a top priority in line with our european values based on the principle of respect for fundamental rights. we cannot tolerate the horror of some testimonies of romanian, moldovan and other women who were sold for a few dollars. the commercialisation of women must be condemned most strongly. the first thing that must be done is to strike hard at these mafia branches, to dismantle them and to bring the perpetrators of this odious traffic to justice. i repeat: we cannot tolerate the exploitation and abuse of women of full age, but also, and above all, of minors, who are slaves of unscrupulous networks; nor can we tolerate the indifference of government authorities, who too often tend to turn a blind eye and ignore the problem, let alone the scourge.
president. - mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mrs karamanou on her excellent report. i would also like to talk about human trafficking in this region. i've worked a lot in the balkans and i'm still working there. i see a lot of activity there. there are actions being taken and, as the commissioner has also said, there are a lot of programmes. i have a feeling, however, that there is a double feeling. on the one hand, there is progress in this area, but what about on the other hand? i also see more and more motivated young politicians, both men and women, who want to do something. in the cities, improvements are visible, but in the countryside there are still large differences. there's been a lot of talk about the humiliation of the victims. between 2000 and 2003, we identified 5203 victims, but there is talk of more than 175,000. that means there's a lot of work to be done. we've seen a lot less victims since 2003, and that's because the criminal sector is going underground more and more. what are they doing? they take their victims, the girls, not to bars or brothels anymore, but to private apartments. so the networks work much more sophisticated. they used to work in small groups, now they work alone - one victim, one dealer. that narrows it down even further. so there's a lot of work to be done. second, the blood feud has increased. not just among men, but also towards women and children. when you're an albanian woman and you're raped and abducted to the west, what's the consequence? the albanian customary law then says that this woman has brought shame on the family and that, even to this day, they have the right to kill her. that's the situation right now. so, commissioner, i'd like your support for actions for gender equality and actions and training in the police, military and government. we must also create jobs, jobs with a fair wage, so that the problem of corruption can also be tackled. let us also involve the balkan countries in the european institutions. invite people from these countries to internships so they can see that it can be done in a different way, and with less corruption.
- mr president, the mine is an economic weapon with both physical and psychological effects, the latter being multiplied by their insidious aspect. easy to deploy, inexpensive, landmines remain a recurring threat long after the fighting has ceased. the ottawa agreement banning antipersonnel mines has now entered into force, but only for future conflicts, while the fight against the approximately 110 million landmines scattered around the world is unfortunately still a reality. there are stocks which pose a threat of proliferation and several leading countries, such as the former yugoslavia, the united states, china and russia, should be pressed to ratify this treaty. humanitarian efforts to combat this scourge are not going away either, whether they are the work of ngos or the un. i therefore welcome the preparations for the ottawa conference. six years after the signing in ottawa of a convention banning the use, stockpiling and manufacture of antipersonnel mines, these mines, it should be recalled, are still killing between 15 000 and 20 000 people a year worldwide. children in particular continue to pay a heavy price for the proliferation of the poor's weapons, with children accounting for a quarter of the victims. it is therefore our duty to continue the fight and above all to do everything we can to ensure that the production of these mines is finally stopped.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. we were recently in sudan with a delegation from the european parliament. for 20 years, a civil war raged there. fortunately, in some parts of the country, such as the nuba mountains in the south, the war is over, but the people there now face the continued presence of thousands and thousands of mines. this not only leads to the regular loss of lives in mine accidents, but also hinders access to the fields and other villages, making it very difficult for people to get their economic lives back on track. i therefore want to address myself very specifically to all those in the world who bear responsibility for the manufacture of these mines. we have no idea how long the mines will be used and how long they will remain. i have noted to my shame in sudan that belgian mines are still being found 20 to 30 years after the date of production. this is despite the fact that my country, belgium, was one of the first countries to take a strong stance on mine action. that was in africa, but it's reaching even the borders of europe. for example, in cyprus, mines are still being used to secure the border between the greek cypriot and turkish cypriot parts. i hope that the major countries - china, the united states and russia - will also stop producing and using these mines. a general worldwide ban is absolutely necessary, because the poor are still threatened in their daily lives by the consequences of mines.
- mr president, an unprecedented wave of repression took place in cuba in march and april 2003, under the pretext of the active role played by representatives of american interests in havana among political opponents. nearly 80 members of civil society were arrested. they were tried and sentenced to very long prison terms, ranging from 6 to 28 years. those arrested were tried in very short periods of time - a few weeks - or even days - in closed trials. the defendants were assisted by lawyers who did not belong to independent bars. the conditions of detention of these persons are of great concern, since the cuban authorities provide virtually no information on this subject. in the face of this situation, we urge the cuban authorities to release these political prisoners and remind them that freedom of expression is a fundamental right. last month, a delegation of reporters without borders, accompanied by relatives of wrongfully convicted prisoners, came to protest and ask for the european parliament's help in this fight to defend freedoms. i would like to stress that cuba has ratified a number of conventions in the field of human rights and i call on the cuban authorities to respect their commitments. on the pretext of the disastrous consequences of an embargo that has lasted for more than forty years, cuba cannot claim to be responsible for the systematic violation of human rights against some of its citizens, who are described as mercenaries in the service of foreign countries.
i am speaking on behalf of myself and not on behalf of the group of the european people's party. secondly, i am not the author of this resolution, but i am more in opposition to this resolution. i would like to put the matter in a different light. i was recently in cuba to explore the possibilities for cooperation in the fight against human trafficking and smuggling. in cuba too, this phenomenon is an important and urgent problem and the cuban government is working hard to address it. in the first two and a half months of this year, no less than 30 human smuggling operations were stopped and some 70 attempts to leave the country illegally were thwarted. half of these were people smuggling. in addition, in a dramatic attempt to reach the united states, five people were killed, one person is still missing and three survivors were rescued. trafficking in human beings is usually done through sham marriages and false promises of employment. so why do ordinary cubans take such risks? in the context of human trafficking, there is always talk of push and pull factors. we know that the main cause, the push factor of human trafficking, is poverty. poverty in both social and economic terms. when we think of pull factors, we almost immediately think of the attraction of the rich west, in this case the united states. that image is not entirely accurate. what are the typical promises made by traffickers? as in europe, they promise opportunities to earn more or a lot of money and claim that their victims will be grateful to them. people are presented with a rosy picture that is far from reality. in 1966, u.s. president lyndon johnson signed the so-called cuban adjustment act. this law ensures that all cubans arriving in the united states after one year will automatically receive a residence and work permit. that is a clear pull factor and, as far as cuba is concerned, perhaps the most important. the assumption is always that life in the united states, even for people who have little or no access to justice, is much better than life in cuba. yet the world bank, not exactly known for its anti-american rhetoric, is waving cuba's health and education. compare this with the situation in the so-called promised land, the united states, where health care is far from universal, education is low-cost, and the prison system is largely privatized and removed from any democratic control. i've seen it myself. if we are to criticize the respect for human rights in cuba, we must bear in mind two things. who is making the criticism, and is it reasonable and balanced? if i hear the official voice of the european parliament in recent months, it is clear that there are two standards, because when it comes to values which we ourselves consider universal, we are suddenly very selective in the case of cuba.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in ancient greece, when the olympic games were held, all wars were stopped. it's a shame that's not the case anymore. it was a tribute to the human person and to human dignity. but now we are faced with the fact that sports shoes are the symbol of the exploitation of people. this resolution is therefore a just response to this exploitation. the standards of the international labour organisation should be binding throughout the world. now it's the other way around. ethical investors are punished because they are victims of unfair competition. we must develop inspection systems and raise awareness among our consumers and trade unions. the international olympic committee should no longer allow any advertising for items that have not been manufactured according to ethical standards. europe should not only use these ilo standards as a label for social equity and fair trade, but also as an organizational principle which we consider binding on imports and exports. it is not possible yet, of course, but i hope that we will develop a strategy for this, so that in a few years' time at the olympic games it can be said that the rules for fair world trade and fair production methods are integrated into the world trade system itself. people are often very farsighted. flanders, for example, is already bidding to host the 2016 olympic games. now, can we not say that by 2016 we want a fairer world trade system, one that is no longer based on market value, but on human dignity?
mr president, the olympic charter and its fundamental principles emphasize that the olympic games are the guarantor of a lifestyle based on the joy of effort, the educational value of good example and respect for fundamental universal ethical principles. it is therefore crucial that these fundamental principles be accompanied by respect for basic labour standards in the production of sporting goods for the olympic games. today, this production is not in compliance with labour law as established by the international labour organisation. there is evidence that many sporting goods are produced by subcontractors who violate not only labour law but also human rights through abusive employment and working conditions, by failing to respect humane working hours, by failing to provide their employees with a safe and healthy workplace and, in turn, by failing to provide them with decent and fair remuneration. again, we could also ask ourselves about the problem of child labour. we therefore call on the sports industry to be vigilant in tackling this unfortunate situation, for which it is largely responsible and complicit, and we ask it to adopt and enforce as soon as possible a genuine code of good ethical conduct aimed at enhancing human dignity.
president, commissioner and ladies and gentlemen, one minute is not enough to discuss the gigantic problems of the large and densely populated country of nigeria. we were there with the acp conference when mr obasanjo replaced the military system, so to speak, with a democratic system. the hope was great and vivid. since then, however, thousands have been killed in ethnic conflicts and all kinds of violent confrontations. we were also in kano, in the north, where a wonderful islamic culture is flourishing, and we could compare this culture with that of other regions in the south. however, this beautiful diversity of tribes, ethnic groups and cultures is constantly threatened by serious armed conflicts. what should be a blessing for this great country, oil, is actually a curse, because oil is mainly used to buy weapons and to set up power against power. the small peoples, such as the ogoni, are in danger of falling victim to all this. i believe that we should take nigeria seriously in the context of the acp and that we should follow closely what is happening in this great country, because it is, as it were, the mini-edition of the entire african continent. i hope that the recommendations in our resolutions, which point out in particular the danger of intolerance, the danger of sharia in those countries, of stoning women, etc., will be taken to heart, because there is a danger that all this will deteriorate further if we are not much closer to dialogue, but also to strict sanctions when the rules are violated.
- mr president, nigeria, the largest country in africa with a population of 120 million, seems to be under constant threat of collapse. this oil-rich country, where the extreme wealth of a tiny minority contrasts with the extreme poverty of the population, is once again the scene of religious clashes. the clashes last month saw 20 people killed in an attack on a village in plateau state, a state with a predominantly christian population. this region has long been mired in a real conflict between islamic fundamentalists and christians. the conflict has already claimed more than 100 lives in the region since february. these sad events illustrate once again that poverty and social disunity are the dream ground of all fundamentalists. today, sharia is practiced in eleven of the 36 northern states of the nigerian federation. in response to the islamist threat, governors in the south, where animists and christians are in the majority, have created a forum of southern states. it is clear that in all areas, including the institutional, mechanisms are being put in place that could lead to a new split in the country. today, faced with this spiral of violence affecting a wounded population, we want to strongly condemn all forms of intolerance and religious violence. since 1999, thousands of people have died as a result of intercommunal clashes. at the time, the trigger was the introduction of sharia law in several northern states. we therefore call on the nigerian government to take the necessary steps and find a concrete solution to bring an end to this ethnic and religious violence as soon as possible and we hope that this will not be another debate of our institution.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after 17 years as a member of this european parliament, i stand here today on behalf of the liberal group to make what may be my last speech in the plenary debate. i am proud and grateful to be here today in a historic place at a historic time. it is a historic place, because the european parliament is the heart of democracy in europe and the only european institution directly elected by 450 million european citizens. on 13 june, the people of 25 european countries will be electing their members of the european parliament at the same time. today europe is one, reunited in a voluntary, peaceful and sustainable way. on the basis of equality, equity and solidarity. eurosceptics say that we are investing in a dream. that's possible, but what's wrong with that? in any case, and this is important, we are now able to realize a large part of our dreams and to bring europe together. today we remember jean monnet in particular, the first thinker, or i should say the first dreamer, of a united europe. the architect of the schuman plan, the first founder of the present european union. we can dream about jean monnet. we can have dreams, as long as we know how to turn them into action. our great european dream is not yet complete, but we have already come a long way. i would like to pay tribute here not only to jean monnet but also to all those thousands of others who helped pave the way and, last but not least, to the european citizens themselves. the step we are taking today on this road must also give a new impetus to the process of european integration, because the lack of a genuine political european union will be even more palpable from today onwards. the european union must emerge from the halo of a purely economic alliance and become politically mature in order to play a genuinely significant role in the world. today, we are talking about more than just enlargement of the european union. it is a matter of mutation, of the reunification of europe and of all europeans. we are indeed taking a historic step here. a step from division to unity, from the threat of conflict to the guarantee of peace and stability, a step from socioeconomic inequality to sustainable growth and prosperity for all our european citizens. i would like to congratulate all of you, ladies and gentlemen, because we have not missed this historic opportunity for european union. i therefore confidently hand over the torch to the many new, young, enthusiastic europeans in this unique assembly which is the european parliament, and i say to these young colleagues, and to all of you: the future of europe is in your hands. you are doing well, europe! be a beacon of peace and tranquility in the turbulent sea that our world is, sadly, all too often. (applause from the left)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, our president, mr monnet, has just recalled the following words: "we are not united states, we are united people". i 'd like to make it: "we are united peoples". yesterday we welcomed ten new countries and now there are ten new flags of ten new member states waving outside. today i would like to draw your attention to the flags of the regions and nations that have not had the good fortune to become states. the course of history has decided that some great countries are at this moment accompanied ...
- we will take down the flags, mr president, pending their recognition by the european union. it is a fact that six member states are smaller than the regions whose flags we are displaying here today. we are saying that we welcome the new member states, but we are also calling on the council and the commission to recognize that the reality of languages and cultures, the diversity of peoples in europe, cannot be reduced to states only. we know and we are very much aware that we are one big family, but we must share sovereignty in our new constitution at the supranational level so that we can play a role in the world with europe that is worthy of these 450 million citizens. at the same time, we must call on our member states to recognise that within some member states there are differences which are not sufficiently recognised. in the new constitution this is already the case in principle. the principles are there, but it depends on our member states. we would like our member states to realize that the diversity of peoples within the member states themselves must be recognized, so that these constitutional regions, which have historically missed the chance to become states, are not forced to become states. we all want to share sovereignty at the supranational level, but on the other hand we also want the principle of subsidiarity to be applied downwards and languages and cultures to be protected. catalan, for example, is a language spoken by 10 million people. we find it difficult to accept that such a language can only be recognised at european level if spain also wants it. is it not enough that 10 million citizens want that? i thank you, mr president, for your attention and i hope that the new constitution will take due account of this fundamental reality, which is older than our member states.
the commission has not yet taken action on the matter, and it is not yet clear whether it will take action on the matter. the european parliament did not provide satisfactory answers to all questions, nor were individual persons responsible appointed. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a welcome step towards the creation of a single currency. the eurostat case has shown, however, that there is still no accountability culture. the commission should discuss this instead of criticising members of parliament who want to clarify the eurostat scandal. the lack of interest shown by voters in several member states, many of whom no longer wish to participate in the elections to the european parliament, is due in particular to the attitude of the commission in cases such as the eurostat affair. voters are rightly demanding that the european institutions become more transparent and that they be given greater responsibility and greater democratic legitimacy.
in writing. - (fr) it is too late or too early to comment on the eurostat affair, which, moreover, hides many other things than what is shown in the vote of no confidence. it is absurd to suggest that a european parliament which is closing its work should reject a commission which is also closing its work. but since the president considers the vote to be valid and has put it to the vote, i took part in the vote and voted in favour of the motion of censure. it is virtually impossible for a person on the left to express confidence in a commission which has proposed the bolkestein directive on public services, because the directive puts these very services at risk.
- mr president, the debate on enlarged europe and the neighbourhood policy cannot be dissociated from the existential question of the borders of the european union. the enlargement we have celebrated in recent days is a good thing, but it will certainly require efforts in the first few years, not least in the financial field. it is therefore important that a pause be taken now with regard to further enlargements. romania and bulgaria have 2007 as their target date for accession. let that remain a target date and let us not go into enlargement if those countries do not prove to be ready by then. the same applies to croatia. as regards turkey, it must be made clear that it is not a european country and that it does not meet the copenhagen criteria. the eu has a role to play in the eu's neighbourhood policy. this is the only realistic option. this may mean that more investment in neighbourhood policy will have to be made than originally planned. after the referendum in cyprus, i can only regret that the commission and the council have de facto recognised the turkish military occupation of the north of the island. it would also be interesting to know on what legal basis this de facto recognition is based. the financial resources earmarked for northern cyprus in the event that the referendum would have led to the reunification of the island will be paid out, despite the fact that the voters decided otherwise. this is a new manifestation of the democratic deficit in the european union, despite all the promises to bring europe closer to the citizen.
- madam president, commissioner, time is irrevocable in this house and it passes quickly. we must prepare our european home for the accession of so many new countries. not everything is prepared, not even with us. we have overemphasized their duties. we must now deepen europe. at the same time, we must formulate a clear answer for the other countries. we know that two more countries will join by 2007, but turkey is also a candidate. however, we cannot say today that turkey is ready to open negotiations. it is clear that the copenhagen criteria are not being met. not in the practice of the courts and not in the practice of minority care. the kurds in particular complain that, despite changes in legislation, there are no visible improvements in the real situation of the kurdish minority. the fact that leyla zana has been re-imprisoned after a mock trial along with her elected parliamentary colleagues also clearly shows that turkey is not ready. we therefore call on turkey to comply with the copenhagen criteria and thus to say when it will be ready. in the meantime, we want to put our own house in order with, i hope, the new countries on our side.
- mr president, if we can speak today of a european economic and social model, we owe it above all to the selfemployed, to micro-enterprises. six years ago, in 1997, eurostat figures tell us that there were 18 802 423 enterprises in the eu-15, of which 18 million were micro enterprises. of these 18 million, half were one-person enterprises and the other half, i.e. about 8.5-9 million, were enterprises employing only one to nine people. it is therefore the importance of these micro-enterprises that must be in the minds of all those who will make the european legislation of tomorrow, and even more so on the day when we celebrate the enlargement to the new member states. legislation must be adapted to them, take account of their specificities, the small size of these micro-enterprises and that everyone thinks that these selfemployed workers, these liberal professions, these traders, these craftsmen, these artists, these farmers are all courageous people, who maintain a europe with a human face through the person-to-person services they provide, and this is important in a europe that is also becoming globalised and with the increasing technicality. i therefore invite all those involved in the drafting of future european legislation to make legislation adapted to the specific needs of small businesses, which must devote their energy to productivity. everyone should bear in mind that no company is born big and that it is today's start-ups that are destined to become the medium and large companies of tomorrow. it is through economic wealth that we can have a high level of social protection in this europe we love. this is how we will have winning businesses and also guarantee a social europe.
- mr president, we must safeguard the european economic and social model. we are hearing this from all sides more than ever, especially now that the reunification is a fact and many people still feel a little uncomfortable in our great house. people know the value of the socio-ecologically corrected free market economy. they know that competitiveness and solidarity are two key words in this. they recognise the need to continue and strengthen the lisbon process. i would like to make a plea that in the socioeconomic policies of the future, the little ones should not be forgotten. we must continue to work towards a better business environment, where more people have both the desire and the opportunity to set up a business. we must pay more attention to smes, because two thirds of employment and value added are created there. why, commissioner, should we not include in the next commission a specific commissioner for smes, who will be given a horizontal competence and, on that basis, will work in a matrix model with the various commissioners in each of the vertical areas of competence. finally, i think we should also take a good look at the proposal for the internal market directive and make adjustments where necessary, so as to avoid throwing away the child with the bathwater in the social field. and to conclude, this. we are now reunited, we are twenty-five countries and we are moving forward together. the ten new countries that have joined have shown us that structural intervention is possible and that one must have the courage to stick to one's position in order to achieve the long-term objectives of peace, prosperity and a good social climate. let us follow their example and continue to work to maintain a balance in europe between the needs of a well-functioning market and the wishes of the people.
president of the commission. i believe that the debate on the union's borders, which we have had here in parliament, which we have had in the council, has been one of the most serious, the most profound and the clearest debates. a strategy emerged which is now considered to be a common strategy; for the future, no one can judge what will happen. and a very clear strategy: with bulgaria and romania, we hope that it can be concluded in 2007; croatia has started its process of rapprochement with the union at a fast pace; we have already set the timetable for turkey, which i repeated this morning: in october the commission's opinion, in december the decision, the reference framework, the copenhagen rights; the other countries are now starting what has been called, in evocative language, the 'ring of friends', that is, 'sharing everything except institutions'. this does not mean that we should leave these countries isolated and cold. it means starting a strong cooperation which will give europe the soft security that is vital to us, which will give these countries an opportunity for development and which will give us together an opportunity for cooperation, both in the east and in the mediterranean. it seems to me to be a very clear political doctrine, but it will take decades to achieve it. we are beginning to implement this policy seriously and conscientiously, but we cannot keep the continent in uncertainty about our horizons and our frameworks. we have defined them together, they take us into the future, they move us forward, they do not prejudge tomorrow at all. i think that's the path that we all, together, want to take.
mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the european commission, you will today have the confidence of this parliament, including my own. but you have to win the trust of the citizens. in this sense, many citizens view enlargement with expectation, but with some suspicion. i would like to give two reasons for this. many of our citizens still feel that money is being wasted in europe, that monitoring is inaccurate and that there is too little transparency. our citizens want to be reassured by this commission that there will be zero tolerance for fraud. that is what commissioner prodi promised at the beginning of his mandate and that is what the citizens will be counting on. especially right now. i also believe that equality and equal participation of men and women is still the goal. however, in the last few days i have seen a great many men and few women in this house at the highest levels. finally, i would like to join in the hope that solidarity with africa will not be forgotten. at a time when we are celebrating, there is war in darfur and there is still no peace in the congo. i can make the row of conflicts much longer. please take the hope for peace that we in europe have as our basic aspiration to the world. to the middle east, to iraq, to africa. good luck with that.
the european parliament has always been very much attached to the basic principle of equal opportunities. the same applies to the commission as we know it. this is not just a task for the commissioner who has equal opportunities in his or her portfolio, but for all commissioners in their respective fields. i would like to be assured that this is also the case in the new commission. we are of course very pleased to have three female commissioners, but we expect all commissioners to put equal opportunities for men and women high on their agenda, if i may say so. with all due respect to the new commissioner, mr borg, who is undoubtedly highly qualified, but he did not convince me at the hearing on development cooperation. development cooperation must also have a very strong gender perspective. could the president-in-office confirm to me that equal opportunities will remain an important issue in the new enlarged commission, that the beijing platform, signed by all our member states, will remain a starting point for the new european commission, and that sexual and reproductive rights and health of men and women will remain a priority for the union.
mr president, the most thorny issue you will face during your presidency of the european union is undoubtedly the accession application of turkey. not just because your cabinet seems divided on the issue; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. you speak of a strict review of the criteria set in 2002. i can only hope that you will now put your word to action. in any case, it is clear that turkey did not meet the criteria yesterday, does not meet them today and will not meet them in december either. you were just talking about the people of europe who are the ones to do it all. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a country which, in a year or two, will not only have the largest area in that union, but also the largest population. a country whose accession would mean a financial and social leak and would trigger a new wave of mass immigration. are you convinced that there is democratic support for this among the population? the question is also whether we should have much faith in a turkish prime minister who claims to respect the secular state and democracy, but who a few years ago made statements in the style of 'the mosques are our barracks, the minarets our bayonets, the domes our helmets and the faithful our soldiers'. we must think carefully about how this relates to our european values. in several member states, the european constitution will be put to a referendum. if we want to avoid the people of europe turning away from the european union even more, we must keep the referendum linked to the question of the turkish candidacy.
president, mr president-in-office of the council, we have little time and therefore i shall refrain from saying anything about the unification of europe, which you rightly pointed out, mr president-in-office of the council, that trust is the key word, but it is not because it is necessary that it is sufficient, but you yourself are of course aware of that. i will not say anything about the composition of the new commission either, although i hope that you and the new commission president-elect will form a team that has the ambition and also manages to put together a strong team. a strong team of men and women, of course. i shall also be silent on the constitution, which i hope, of course, like many colleagues here, will be ratified in a really positive way. i would like to speak very briefly about three other points, mr president. first, the financial prospects. in flanders we say, greed deceives the wise. there is much truth in that saying and i am sure that it is understood beyond our shared borders and even beyond the moerdijk. secondly, the lisbon objective. the challenge is to convince everyone - member states, citizens, trade unions and ngos - that the efforts to achieve these goals are actually small in relation to the risks for the next generation of our comfortably idle hands. you are convinced of this, mr president-in-office, and i hope that you will be able to express that conviction during your presidency of the union. thirdly, and finally, i should like to turn to the services directive. of course, the obstacles to the free movement of services in the internal market must be removed. but this does not mean that everything should be thrown overboard, that all protective and corrective measures should be removed from the track. i think that at least part of that service market is too sensitive socially for that. mr president, you have a very extensive programme of work. i hope you can achieve your ambition, europe needs it, you can count on our constructive attitude and i wish you every success. (applause from the left)
i think the president-in-office is well aware that the next commission will face major challenges, not least the enlargement of the union to include ten new countries, which will have to be translated into the integration of these ten new countries into the union. some fear that this could lead to a dilution of the union. but this need not be the case with the constitution as we have drafted it, and the convention is precisely intended to avoid this, inter alia by strengthening the community method. in the meantime, it is the commission which must ensure that this happens, since it plays a very central role in this. it is the guardian of the treaties, it must defend the common european interest. i have always said in the convention, and everyone knows it from me, that the commission in its present form is too numerous to function as a close-knit body. on the other hand, i believe that if the commission with 25 members really wants to work, it can only do so with a strong presidency which also uses all the prerogatives that the treaty gives to that presidency. i was pleased to hear that you intend to do so from the very beginning in the composition of the commission, but i think that the council will be the main controller and that this parliament too, which has shown its authority from the beginning, will defend the independence of the commission and exercise the full powers of the president of the commission. the second point on which you will have to demonstrate this is the financial package. i believe that if we are to achieve enlargement, solidarity must be fully developed between the union and within the union. this is not possible if one wishes to remain within a framework which is too restrictive; the 1% threshold, for example, is an impossible framework for actually achieving enlargement in the form of integration. you will understand, mr president, that for me the adoption of the constitution is one of the priorities for the coming years, and we must work together on it. i also think it is important that the commission, the future commission, should anticipate this constitution and thus facilitate the transition to the new constitution. i am thinking in particular of justice, internal security, and also foreign policy, where we must indeed speak with one voice and where the foreign minister's proposal must contribute. i think it helps you that it is already clear that this should be xavier solana and it seems to me important that a very good cooperation should be established from the outset.
mr barroso, you have not convinced us. take iraq: you say you want to turn the page and look to the future. that's a quick one. why then have you not withdrawn your troops from iraq? why do we not have any clear plan from you today? we know perfectly well that it is precisely because of your commitment to this war and your close transatlantic ties that you have been preferred to other candidates from the centre, such as mr verhofstadt. how will you change your image? mr poettering, in support of you, said yesterday: 'mr barroso does not change, he was like that when he was leader of the opposition, he was like that when he was a minister'. so you will probably not change if you are president of the commission, and that is what we fear. you are a man of circumstances, a man of skill, but unfortunately not a man of conviction, whereas to restore the confidence of european citizens in europe and its institutions we need conviction and we need action. but the actions of today do not speak in your favor.
mr barroso, our group chairman, mr schulz, said here yesterday that we had asked a number of questions in the group, that we had received some answers from you, but that there were still a lot of questions that remained unanswered. one of these questions is certainly the one on the stability and growth pact. what are you going to do to have more growth in europe? we are lagging behind in terms of growth and if we do not have growth, we will also have insufficient jobs. of course there is the stability pact, and that is an important instrument for the economic policy of the union. but this stability pact must also become a genuine growth pact and must be supplemented by a growth pact. it is not just by telling us that you are going to interpret this stability pact in the future that we can move towards a genuine growth pact. so are you prepared to take growth and employment-related expenditure into account in a specific way when assessing member states' expenditure?
i would like to say, mr president, first of all that i regret that i do not see a representative of the council, because the council will of course also have an important voice in this chapter and it will be the members of the council who will be voting at that meeting of the icao. so, commissioner, i hope you will tell the council representatives what has been discussed here in parliament, because it is of course them that we want to weigh in on, we know that we should not weigh in on the commission. we also know that the commission is not a member of icao, even though we have asked the commission many times to become a member, not only for aviation but also for maritime transport, so that in these international meetings we finally speak as a union with one voice and not just with the voice of the member states. we are not discussing a commission proposal here, we are discussing the fact that the commission must keep its hands free to make a proposal if it deems it necessary. so basically we should not be looking for a solution now, we just have to make sure that our hands are not tied before we can start the discussion. we had the same problem when it came to shipping. is it the international maritime organisation which decides alone or can a decision be taken regionally within the union? we have the same problem now. and why should not the environment be affected in the same way as maritime transport has been affected, for example, by double-hulled tankers? and as far as aviation is concerned, can the union not take the lead in taking measures to make aviation more sustainable? the fact that we must maintain a balance is quite clear, but as mr piecyk has said, we do not want, nor does the commissioner, to have our hands tied in advance at global level. now, you have said, commissioner, that the council unanimously adopted the commission's position. my question is, do you think that this will still be the case at the end of the month in the meeting? are you sure that all the members of the council, all 25, will take a common position and therefore, if necessary, make a reservation? secondly, you say that we have very little support for our position from third countries. most of these third countries seem to follow the united states' position. why is that? are there any things that the european union can do that it has not done to ensure that we get support for our position and that we can work towards a better sustainability? i understand mr schmidt's concerns, but sustainability means maintaining a balance, both socially and ecologically and economically. i do not want to lose sight of the economic aspect of aviation, let there be no misunderstanding, but we must be able to pursue a policy as a union and no one should tie our hands to it beforehand.
i hope that in this debate on the environmental disaster in the ulla, mr president, you will allow me to make some marginal remarks which i believe are of fundamental importance. first of all: the potential environmental disaster we are facing today concerns toxic waste from thermal power stations. so perhaps the time has come to stop making nuclear energy the only scapegoat. in my country, for example, the government has committed itself to a complete phase-out of nuclear energy in the foreseeable future. it is very doubtful whether this will ultimately benefit the environment, since at present there are no real alternatives and we are again illustrating the fact that the very real and serious problem of toxic waste is not just the result of nuclear energy. second point of order: i'm not a good judge of character. i am very critical of european meddling and of too much intervention at european level in the politics and culture of our member states, with the exception of the closest possible cooperation on environmental protection. this is one of the few areas where such close cooperation is absolutely necessary and can also be democratically legitimized by the consent of the citizen; the commission has not yet made any progress in this area. third point of order: we reaffirm our commitment to the pursuit of optimal relations with our neighbour turkey. i fear for the future if blind europeanism gives this neighbour the impression that it can become a member of our european union in the long run. turkey is not a european country, geographically, culturally or historically, and we must have the courage to say so now, and only on the basis of that honest attitude can we maintain the best and closest friendly relations with our neighbour turkey in the future.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). neither the politics of the root nor the politics of the stick seem to have any influence on regimes such as that in belarus, and unfortunately this is also the case for certain countries in asia, africa and america, which shows that there is no double standard here. on the one hand, this debate gives the impression of being rather pessimistic, since many speakers have had to recognise our powerlessness to bring about change for the better in belarus. this does not mean, however, that we should give up. several speakers indicated the way forward. cooperation with civil society must be established and the people of belarus must be able to elect their representatives in a free, transparent and fair manner. the ngos which are trying to defend against the tide of values such as democracy and human rights must also be supported. all this is to give the people a chance to share in the prosperity and well-being of europe. the commission and the council can count on our full support in their further efforts to bring about change for the better.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, as a new commission enters office, it would be appropriate to wish it every success. unfortunately, this commission of president barroso has not even started yet, or it does not seem to be going to become a unified team. several commissioners have already expressed their disagreements in the media. the new italian justice commissioner, rocco buttiglioni, was immediately met with disapproval when he suggested that the asylum problem should finally be tackled by the horns and that refugee camps should be set up at the union's external borders. if we think of the acute asylum problems in italy, with the continuing flow of boat refugees on the island of lampedusa, we realise that the commissioner has not launched these proposals in a frivolous way. but the new belgian commissioner for development cooperation, louis michel, who is not satisfied with his thesis on the insult to italians, felt it necessary to immediately dismiss his colleague. it is the same louis michel who has openly stated in the belgian media that he will continue to combine his job as european commissioner with active political membership of his own party in belgium, where he says he wants to become an active grassroots activist again. this is not exactly showing respect for his new position. the european union is also committed to the development of the common foreign and security policy. one commissioner is for, the other against, depending on the political sensitivities of the member state from which he/she comes. here too we find that there is no unanimity. but on this sensitive subject, i would first of all call on the new commission to take account of the reluctance of the majority of the european population to allow an islamic and non-european country to join the european union. if not, this commission risks losing its democratic legitimacy before it has even started.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is the case for the longer-term ambitions; i am thinking here of the financial perspective to which the commissioner also referred. the same applies to the short term, i.e. next year. it is good that there is programming and even better that parliament is closely involved in it. the latter is necessary from a democratic point of view and because parliament is a budgetary authority. this can be organized perfectly within the community methodology, as the commission has understood and applied it, for which i thank you. the annual policy strategy which the commission communicated to us in february and which we discussed in april has, in my view, retained its full relevance to the present day. the three priorities must therefore be maintained and i would ask, without ignoring the importance of the other priorities, that the priorities relating to competitiveness and cohesion be given priority. if we really want to create more jobs and achieve sustainable development and real social cohesion, we must create in 2005 a mechanism that not only ensures the implementation of the lisbon objectives, but also provides real incentives and sticks behind the door to actually achieve these objectives, and that within a framework that does not jeopardise stability. we hope that the kok report will provide us with a good basis for a short-term debate and for guiding it in such a way that it leads to decisions which will allow us to make a kind of quantum leap. we have to make room for this in 2005. i believe that this is the only way to ensure that we are ensuring policy continuity, that we are delivering what we promise and what people can expect from us, and that we are able to pave the way for the policy developments announced by the new commission president, mr barroso, and which we, together with our group, support in general. finally, mr president, i should like to thank the vice-president of the commission and, through her, all the other members who have always considered it a priority to maintain good democratic relations with parliament.
vice-president of the commission. your honour, i don't know if you noticed this before, but i'll tell you this: i am sympathetic to natural products, to traditional varieties. i like apples which, although sometimes they are uglier, have more flavor, more perfume and - in my opinion - better quality. if you are talking about apples, you can talk about other food products. reality is there. i am also in favour of farmers who are committed to traditional agriculture, with selected, traditional and natural products, and who also use traditional fertilisers which avoid the introduction of chemicals or genetically modified organisms. that cannot prevent the cultivation of products which, according to all scientific analyses, do not cause any harm to human health, which can in some cases contribute to and solve problems and difficulties, which are very clear in some regions of the world, which improve the yields of agricultural production and which are also fully detectable, traceable, as i have said before. there are problems such as cross-pollination and the contamination of natural products by the pollination of genetically modified products. that too has been studied and, in the cases we have just authorized, those risks are absolutely minimal or simply non-existent.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, access to the market for port services is a subject on which we have been working actively in the commission and also in this parliament and in the council for the last seven years, particularly following the publication of the green paper on ports and maritime infrastructure in 1997, which triggered the first intensive discussions on this subject. the discussions intensified with the commission's proposal for a directive in 2001, and the detailed discussions surrounding it led the commission to make a number of amendments to the text, in particular to respond to the views expressed by parliament at its first and second readings. however, after adopting a text in conciliation, this parliament rejected it in the last vote. by a tiny margin, but we already know that one vote is enough. in the new wording of its proposals on port services, the commission is trying to address the legitimate concerns of all parties. the same applies to the new proposal we are preparing, which seeks to address the objections raised to self-help from the point of view of safety, social protection and the environment. the new proposal is likely to require all providers of port services to be subject to a licensing regime which ensures compliance with all applicable safety, labour and environmental standards. this represents a fundamentally different approach to the 2001 proposal and is intended to respond to the concerns expressed by those who called for greater attention to these points. given that the necessary authorisations will ensure a level playing field for port service providers, there should therefore be no reason to restrict self-assistance companies from employing their own shore-based staff. as regards the practical aspects, the proposal under preparation will probably incorporate a specific regime to take account of maritime safety aspects and will provide for the application of public service obligations. finally, i would like to stress the importance of developing the role of ports in shifting the growth of goods traffic from road to short sea shipping services. i believe that it is absolutely crucial to ensure a competitive transport system in the european union that the new demand, which we expect and foresee will be in the order of 40% in ten years for goods, is channelled in a significant way towards maritime cabotage in an enlarged europe. this will avoid other types of congestion problems that are already beginning to appear in other types of infrastructure, such as roads or even rail services where major modernisation and dynamisation is also needed.
commissioner, i think you will agree with me that this is a very sensitive issue, which has been discussed a lot and has caused a lot of commotion, because of course it has very real implications for a lot of people in the european union. there is a certain mistrust in port authorities today of the proposals you will be putting forward shortly. i would therefore like to ask you very specifically whether you intend to hold further in-depth consultations with all the parties involved in the sector - workers, employers - in the coming weeks, before the matter is brought to the commission, in order to reach a compromise acceptable to all. i would also like to ask you what timing you have in mind.
vice-president of the commission. i know that this is a very sensitive issue, mr president, and those of you who were here will remember the demonstrations and traffic jams that took place around the debate on the previous text. all this said, we must be clear: do we want to boost traffic and shipping or not? if we want to boost maritime transport, we must make it more dynamic and competitive. of course, without reducing the safety aspects or making any kind of social dumping. but between that and making it mandatory - as it is in some ports in the european union today, for example - that to load or unload a truck on a roll-on transport system (or roro) you have to hire a specific driver from the port staff or pay a person - even if they don't hire him - as if he were hired. that is obviously putting unjustified obstacles and costs on shipping. if we really want to promote maritime cabotage, we need to make it as fluid as possible. in this connection, we have put forward a number of proposals - some of which are already under way - in terms of administrative simplification, the use of new technologies, the harmonization of forms and, therefore, the possibility of making the same facilities available in the maritime sector as, for example, in road tir systems. but that's not enough. the multimodal hub of ports must also have a driving force and a dynamic. throughout this time we have had discussions with the sectors. i have met on several occasions with all the representatives of the pilots, moorers and dockers sectors. i've met with all the sectors. we have continued to have meetings with them - in some cases myself, like the last one i had in the port of antwerp, and in others the service. i am sure that during the next discussion my successor - who will be responsible for driving this discussion forward - will continue to maintain a fluid discourse and contact with all sectors. what is true is that there are certain types of situations that i would not know whether to call privileged - i am not sure that they are - or simply closed components, which cannot be maintained. we must move towards greater openness, which will mean 'more work, more activity, more opportunities and more wealth for all the port areas of the european union'.
i have a few additional questions, mr president. i thank you for your openness and your courage, commissioner, but i wonder what the compelling circumstances are for you to come forward with this proposal in the middle of the swan song of your career as european commissioner, during the last six weeks of your mandate. you told mr el khadraoui that you had consulted all the parties concerned and you referred to your arrival at the port of antwerp. i live in antwerp and i think the last time you visited the port of antwerp was when the debate on the previous directive, which this parliament rejected, was in full swing. so i see no sign of any consultation on the new text. i ask you, as mr el khadraoui does, to state your timing. you haven't answered that question yet. and finally , i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
president, the president of the united states has called the violence in sudan genocide and he will no doubt be not far from the truth. the death toll in and around darfur is currently estimated at 50,000, and more than a million people are displaced. the arab militias responsible for these events are being given free rein by the islamic government, which bears crushing responsibility for the conditions that are now occurring. according to jan pronk, the united nations special envoy to sudan, the sudanese government is cooperating in good faith, but, i quote, 'the agreements on the ground are not yet being implemented in darfur'. the question is what is actually needed to bring about a clear condemnation of the islamic regime in sudan. the european commission is also suffering from this politically correct timidity. the council and the commission have so far been extremely reserved, if not lukewarm, in their reactions to the events in sudan. it is therefore time for far-reaching sanctions, such as an oil embargo, to be taken along with all other necessary measures to stop the violence in sudan.
the president, mr abdel rahman al-rashed, the director of the al-arabiya television station, wrote a remarkable free column in the british sunday telegraph on 5 september last. the beslan child kidnappers, al-rashed writes, were muslims, as were the kidnappers in iraq, the thugs in sudan's darfur, bin laden and the suicide bombers who blow up buses, cars, schools, homes and other buildings around the world. we cannot clear our name, he continues, unless we acknowledge the shameful fact that terrorism has become an islamic enterprise, an almost exclusive monopoly implemented by muslim men and women (end quote). courageous muslims like al-rashed must be helped to do so. we must be aware of the fact that there is a global war going on against europe and the west in general. it is a war of muslim fundamentalism against our european democratic values and way of life. and i am not convinced, unfortunately, that the european union is at the forefront of the fight against terrorism, as minister bot has just said. we need to do much more than we are doing now, to work with the united states, nato and countries like russia. the member states must cooperate more closely in the exchange of information and adapt their legislation to combat international terrorism, otherwise things will go from bad to worse.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: but, ladies and gentlemen, let us not reduce the events in beslan and chechnya to a simplistic analysis of the fight against international terrorism. there's a lot more going on. there's a dirty war going on in chechnya. read the reports of amnesty international, read the report of our ad hoc committee, of which i was a member and to which mr paasilinna referred, look at what is happening in chechnya. there is no military solution. there must be a dialogue. a dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, with all the parties, all the parties in chechnya, not just with the clan around mr kadirov, but with all the clans in chechnya. dialogue with the rebels too. mrs thatcher once said that she would never talk to terrorists, and yet it was under the influence of our colleague john hume that the british and irish governments sat down with the ira and the protestant murder gangs. this was the solution to peace in ireland, and it is also the solution to peace in chechnya. we must talk to all parties, and europe must play a role in this, a major role, just as america did in northern ireland. we must try to unite the parties and try to bring them to cooperation. that is what the chechens are asking us to do, because the chechens are essentially looking for peace.
the joint motion for a resolution before us is both completely harmless and absolutely self-evident. a cynic might therefore conclude that we do not need a resolution at all. as a pragmatic and experienced politician, i believe that this motion for a resolution clearly shows that our european parliament and its groups are having the same difficulties as the commission and the council in coming to terms with the situation in iraq. i myself, like the government of my country, had been a staunch opponent of the invasion of iraq. and i too, in previous capacities, have tried to convince the united states that invading iraq is one thing, but establishing democracy there is something else entirely. i too have said that invading a country is easy for them, but leaving a country again is much more difficult and dangerous. i too believe that the world today is much more dangerous than it was before the war in iraq began. but then the question arises: what are we doing as the european parliament, what is the european council, the european council of ministers, the european commission doing in the face of this world which has become much more dangerous? what are we, the european institutions, doing about the increasingly dangerous situation in iraq? are we washing our hands in innocence because we did not want this situation? do we hope or, if we are believers, pray that everything may miraculously be all right? or do we take refuge in the hopeless prospect of the civil war that some on both sides of the atlantic have been predicting for so long - sometimes as if they wanted it? we all face the very difficult task of putting all this behind us and reaching a consensus on the future of iraq, of the middle east, of the whole world. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force.
mr president, it is anxiety about the fate of the hostages that brings us together today, all parties involved, and i ask you: what can the european union do to defend its citizens? the french journalists and the two italian women who were taken hostage are all innocent in this war, and they risk paying with their lives for their commitment to a free iraq. but beyond these victims, we must not forget that the entire iraqi people are being held hostage and that each bloodbath leads to new confusion. there are countless such confusions, and i will only mention two. in this chain of violence, we sometimes fail to distinguish between the victim and the perpetrator, we confuse the resistance fighter with the terrorist, we confuse the unfortunate fate of fallen soldiers with that of civilians who have been the victims of what is modestly termed excessive use of force. it is true that they are unscrupulous criminals who murder hostages. but the tragedy and violence in iraq have other origins and nothing can excuse, for example, the indiscriminate missile strikes on the bradley tank last sunday even though the wounded soldiers had been evacuated. these strikes killed children, civilians, a palestinian journalist. it will be necessary, in the name of international law, to bring about justice. second confusion: islamism has many faces, but we often see it in its darkest light. the extraordinary outcome of the siege of najaf and the courageous commitment of french muslims to the release of the hostages show us that moderate islam can be a factor of peace. we shall have to remember this in other contexts. we live in the hope, and perhaps in the illusion, that 2005 will see the holding of free elections and the formation of a government legitimized by the whole people. we ask the commission and the council to do everything possible to make this hope a reality. the iraq war was, as mr d'alema said, a tragic mistake, and history cannot be rewritten. but, mr tannock, at some point you have to be able to admit your mistakes in order to correct them.
i am not the only one who has a strange feeling when reading the communications and listening to the statements just made. it is said that the intention is to strengthen the pact, whereas almost all commentators speak of a weakening or a more lax attitude. it would be wrong to touch on the 3% standard in the treaty, when i have a feeling that this is precisely the budgetary standard with which we are struggling. furthermore, the enforcement of the pact should be strengthened, but i read a lot of wishful thinking about more effect from the so-called peer pressure, which certainly has not worked with the big countries, and i do not read much about more power for the commission or about some other decision-making in the council, which would really lead to better enforcement. the advantage of the communication is that it is there and that there is now an open debate, and we have ample cause for that. we in the epp group have already had a long discussion on this and we want to discuss it with an open mind, but our starting point remains the same as before. we have therefore never said that the stability and growth pact is stupid. we have found it to be a valuable instrument. the search for greater coordination with other economic policy instruments, for refinements, for the operationalization of the debt ratio, for economic realism, all of this is open to discussion. what we cannot do is to allow the stability and growth pact to be altered to please a few governments. the pact must be a factor that encourages discipline, it must be a stick behind the door to keep the path straight. this means that the pact must be geared to the long-term challenges of our social market economy, and not be distracted by short-term sirens.
president. - in the province of vojvodina, harassment and physical aggression against non-serbs, including children, are again on the rise. members of the hungarian minority are harassed daily, graves are violated and desecrated, vandalism and anti-semitic propaganda have become a daily occurrence. and all the indications are that the serbs in this province, with its various minorities, are once again becoming more daring and more radical. since last autumn, alarming reports have been pouring in of increasingly violent incidents. a recent report by the hungarian human rights foundation gives a 19-page, revealing chronology of ethnic violence in the province of vojvodina. and all the indications are that the serbs are using this new violence to dispel the frustrations they have caused by the loss of the province of kosovo. i do not want to point the finger at the serbs alone. the sad experience of the recent past should have taught us that conflicts in so-called multicultural or multiethnic societies have their origins in recent history and that we must therefore seek a balanced political solution which takes into account the aspirations of all concerned and the historical background of the conflict. let us therefore condemn all violence in the strongest terms, but let us be careful not to place all the blame on one side.
president. - mr deva, we in the committee on development and cooperation have already been alerted a few weeks ago to the tyranny, for there is no other word for it, which reigns in the paradise of the maldives, where a corrupt and sharia-motivated ruler has imprisoned a whole bunch of opposition members without trial in the month of august. the maldives are also those islands in the indian ocean where the many dollars left behind by wealthy western tourists in the luxurious temples of five-star tourism disappear only in the pockets of a small camarilla. this is despite the fact that the majority of the people, some of whom work as slaves to serve those western tourists at their whim, have to make do with less than a dollar a month. this corrupt regime of president gayoom has survived for many years now and continues to thrive thanks to our travel agencies and glossy magazines that promote the palm trees and white sand beaches of the archipelago to newlyweds. the rest is politely omitted in these brochures. the poverty is not mentioned, the torture is not mentioned, the political prisoner is not mentioned. this is a disgrace. that is why this parliament must put pressure on the tourist industry and the european union should consider a tourist embargo against the maldives if it should prove that there is no other way of justifying the rule of an unenlightened potentate which treats its subjects as slaves.
mr president, it is not really necessary to take stock of the work of the current prodi commission, although much could be said about it. i think, for example, that we can fill a sitting with the eurostat file alone. but this is not necessary because last week the prodi commission delivered a final judgment on itself, which i think was devastating, with its own opinion on turkey's possible accession to the european union. in my view, the commission has indeed done the worst possible anti-european thing. the previous enlargement of the european union to include the countries of the former eastern europe may be criticized in terms of timing or in terms of certain modalities, but no one seriously disputes that these countries of eastern europe belong to the common european civilization. but this positive advice for turkey, a country which is neither geographically, politically, culturally, historically nor religiously a european country, is worse than a mistake. it is a crime against the true european idea.
mr president of the commission, i have read over the speech of the president of the commission of february 2000 on the strategic objectives and the legislative programme, and at the very end of it, mr president of the commission, you yourself indicated the parameter on which you wanted to be reckoned at the end of your mandate. you said: "if the turnout in the 2004 european elections is higher than in 1999, we will have successfully completed our mission". unfortunately, you know the outcome of that election. you know what the turnout was: 45.7% of the people went to vote. this is not only a very low figure, but above all it is 4% lower than in 1999. of course we do not judge like old-fashioned machines, we do not work with a single yardstick and certainly as a supporter of the community method i would not want to risk that at all. so i admit that a lot of positive things have happened in each of the four areas for which you listed strategic objectives at the time, and i want to thank you for that too. i would also like to thank all the members of the commission who have probably worked very hard on this for five years. but when i ask myself whether the benefits of the union are felt and understood by the citizens, when i see how people react to enlargement, when i see how the commission and all the european institutions are repeatedly associated with fraud, when i see that the image of the european institutions has not improved - look at the latest eurobarometers - then i must say that there is one point where the policy has certainly failed and that is the bridge that had to be built to the people. does that have anything to do with the content of the policy? is it because of a lack of contacts, of consulting the representative middle class? does that have to do with a non-professional method of communication or is it a combination of the three? i would like to know from the president of the commission how he is dealing with this himself and whether he has any recommendations to his successor to do better in this area.
madam president, commissioner, mr high representative, one year after the geneva agreements, which we welcomed with hope as the road map was drawing to a close, one year after the plenary debates on the implementation of the association agreement between israel and the european union, a few months after the condemnation of the wall, both at the un commission on human rights in geneva and at the hague court, what can we, as european parliamentarians, take stock of the situation in the middle east? the result, as has been said, is a bloodbath. and, as mr. patten said, he who wields the sword shall perish by the sword. since the second intifada, 4,350 have been killed, including 3,500 palestinians, 33,600 homes destroyed; since the sharon government's "day of atonement" operation, 120 palestinians and three israelis have been killed. and that's too much, mr. tannock, three israelis is too much. but the others are also too many and i would not dare, like you, to say that there are two israeli children killed when we know that two days ago a little palestinian girl carrying a briefcase was murdered by israeli soldiers and ended by an officer with bullets in the head. i wouldn't have dared to say it, but i'm saying it now. so what can we do as the european parliament? we ask you about the role that the european union can play at the level of the quartet. but what else can we, as european parliamentarians, do but continually go back to the association agreements, to our condemnation of what is indefensible under international law. what can we do? the powerlessness in us is mixed with anger. many of us are going to palestine. i spent half my vacation in palestine with palestinian educators who deal with palestinian children who are victims of war trauma. we are not here in this parliament, an ngo or people who sign blank cheques because we control our cheques, but we cannot accept this impotence and the idea that europe will abandon international law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the european commission in its recommendation on turkey considered that the country adequately respected the political criteria of copenhagen. the european union has a long history of being a major player in the world economy. torture is permitted today, provided it is not systematic. the commission therefore no longer considers that there is a fundamental human rights problem in turkey. i read in the recommendation that turkey respects the primacy of international law, that the rights of the kurdish minority are finally being respected - albeit only on the lips - and that the turks are finally enjoying fundamental rights and freedoms. but what does this show? on the same day that the commission qualifies turkey as a state governed by the rule of law, the austrian newspaper der standard reports that 14% of asylum applications from turkey are accepted, and as reinhard müller stated in the frankfurter allgemeine two days ago, refugees are people who have fled their country of origin because of a well-founded fear of persecution. so either these asylum applications are justified and human rights are still being violated in turkey, or erdoğan is right in his cynicism, and his organizations like amnesty international and human rights watch are allied with international terrorism, as he claimed to the council of europe last week.
president, ladies and gentlemen, the european system of preferences is certainly by far the most important and the most generous in the world after enlargement. any change in the system therefore also has crucial implications for all those involved. the daily lives of many producers in developing countries, as well as in our own, depend on it. i share the commission's view that the system should be simplified and more focused on those countries which need it most to be able to compete on the world market. it is important that the system be made more flexible so that it can be systematically checked whether some sectors in beneficiary countries still really need the system to be competitive. if a country is guilty of unfair trade practices, of a violation of wto rules or of human rights, then temporary withdrawal should be possible at all times. in short, mr president, i support the commission's objectives with regard to the cap, but i doubt, as does mr martens, whether the proposed reforms go far enough to achieve the objectives set. it is not clear why the number of beneficiary countries is not being revised so that the countries which are among the top 20 in world trade no longer benefit from preferences which are in fact intended for the poorest countries. the commissioner also has a great deal of doubts about whether the proposed reform is in line with the current wto doha round, which will end with full quota and tariff-free imports for the poorest countries. i understand commissioner lamy when he says that it must be done quickly, but i would still like to urge, in line with the council, that there should be thorough consultation with the european parliament and that all those involved should be given time to adapt. the resolution on which we are voting today shows that there is a broad consensus in parliament on this revision. i therefore hope that the commission will take utmost account of this unanimous opinion of parliament.
i would like to join my colleagues in thanking commissioner lamy for his cooperation and wish him the very best for the rest of his career. i also want to thank him for his clarifications today and i agree with him that the gsp is in principle a good instrument for providing development opportunities through trade, but that the system clearly needs to be revised. two questions for the commissioner. i share his view that the removal of trade barriers is in fact partially dismantling the system of generalised preferences and that it is therefore really necessary that we concentrate on countries which need it most. i therefore share the concern of my colleague caroline lucas about the future of some developing countries when textile quotas run out. i would very much like you, commissioner, to clarify again how this system of graduation can be used to help those least developed countries. you have mentioned china as a very obvious example, but what about the position of pakistan and india, for example? a second question i ask myself: indeed, the sap+ system makes it possible to use trade as a lever for human rights, labour rights, the environment and good governance. it is good that the existing arrangements are being merged, because what is the point of granting pakistan an sap+ for its drug policy when child labour is still rampant there? you have made it clear, commissioner, that this is not just ratification but also application. but frankly, it has not been entirely clear to me what treaties you are actually referring to. you have drawn up a whole laundry list and tried to clarify how it should be checked, but i fear that with this list you have given, the sap+ system will become completely inoperative. what you have also not said is how sanctions will be linked to non-compliance with these fundamental treaties and how this system can be applied effectively. all too often, sap+ or the link to labour standards or contracts actually becomes a dead instrument, because the sanction for non-compliance simply does not follow. so if you could clarify this, i would be very grateful.
the fact that some member states are going to hold a referendum on the european constitution is to be welcomed. as is always the case with referenda, it is important that voters are informed in a correct and balanced way. the resolution calls on the commission and the council to 'develop an appropriate campaign and communication strategy', without, however, attaching any conditions of balance. however, past referenda have often shown that there is a problem in this area. public opinion often sees only one side of the coin. the information deficit is not conducive to the smooth and correct conduct of a referendum. what is missing in this resolution is a recommendation to the media in general and to the public broadcasting in particular to deal with the yes-camp and the no-camp in a balanced way. thank you.
thank you, mr president. i have a personal question for you. i sent you an urgent message on saturday 16 october in connection with the arrest of the husband of leyla zana on their return from the celebration in brussels of the plenary session. i have asked you to contact the turkish authorities immediately to ask for an explanation of this arrest, which was perceived by me and many colleagues as a direct provocation, because it is clear to everyone that this arrest is connected with the performance of leyla zana in the european parliament. so far i have not received any reply from you. you know that last friday, for the third time, a trial against leyla zana was launched. i therefore ask the european parliament to pay due attention to this, as it has in the past, and perhaps also to look at it with a delegation on the spot, mr president, because i think this is very important in the context of the discussion on the accession negotiations with turkey, which we are going to have here.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it provides direct employment for over 1.2 million people, but is under severe pressure as you said, commissioner. the pressure is not only from the growing competition in asia but also from the increasing competition in the ten new member states. the events in bochum are not isolated events. opel's sister plant in antwerp is also badly affected. we've had other big weight-loss events in flanders before. you know the history of the ford plant in genk and the closure of renault in vilvoorde. the commission must therefore urgently come up with a vision for the future of the automobile industry. i am glad that you refer to the establishment of a high-level group. that's great news, of course. the only question is: what time frame? what timing do you attach to that, because we have little time to lose. i think, commissioner, that we must come up with very tangible and very ambitious objectives. let me give you an example. the european car, for example, should be a 100% clean car by 2015, 100% safe for its occupants, 0% dangerous for other road users and should therefore be able to move through traffic almost automatically. a man, commissioner, must dare to dream once in a while, must he not? this is the only way to avoid a kind of competition, a confrontation in europe between the regions of old europe and those of new europe. i would like to conclude, commissioner, by saying that we must not forget that the automobile industry is still a sector that is passionate about by many young people. an encouraging innovation plan from the commission will be able to persuade schoolchildren and students to choose technology courses again with a future in a high-tech sector, with a future in a sector with an excellent image for the future. that's what we're all here for, isn't it?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we shall vote on a team whose players we have had the opportunity to test individually. that is something that is not replicated in other parliaments. but the selection was made elsewhere. the player-coach has formed his squad in consultation with the board, knowing full well that each member of that board is allowed to field one player. we ourselves do not like all these players equally, we would have liked more women and especially more players with a shirt of our colour. but we too are bound by rules and we do not have the final say. some players have weaknesses, but all of them, mr. president, have enough playing experience, have promised fair play, have accepted the authority of the coach, and all of them realize that this is going to be an important match. for those who may not be in the ideal place, extra bags are provided, and the coach himself can change the people's places and, if necessary, send them off the field at any time. we have already agreed to play with this coach, and we sincerely count on him to make this team of 24 a close-knit team and to ensure that it will be in a higher division than last season. that, mr president, is what the supporters want. what the fans want most, folks, is for the game to finally begin. a little spectacle is always welcome, but it doesn't have to be too much of that. what matters is that the score is scored and what points are awarded during the match. i'm gonna let this squad get on the field. i have faith. and, of course, taking office means something different to us than giving a blank check. (applause from the left)
the question is, madam president, whether or not a commissioner can set aside his personal convictions when he is at work. we are talking about a particularly sensitive policy area, namely civil rights, asylum policy, refugee policy, a policy area which will always be europe's in the coming years and for which you must have someone in the team who is the engine for that policy. the measures you are announcing, mr president of the commission or mr commissioner-designate, are in fact already saying implicitly that you do not have the right man in the right place on your team. i still have my doubts. there are reasons why i would like to vote for your team and there are many, but there is one important reason why i doubt. so i would like to ask you: i would like to see a few more arguments before noon tomorrow to remove my doubts.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. we also want to thank you on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism for your work. we are no different from the other committees: our expectations are sometimes greater than the resources we have. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the proposals contained in the report, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them into account in its work. the three examples i want to give here concern safety and the environment. the agencies have been approached here on a number of occasions. we have little understanding of the fact that in the political consensus between the three partners we clearly define a policy on railway safety, aviation safety and the fight against marine pollution, for example, and then the council comes and puts these funds at zero. these are no longer financial decisions, but political decisions on the budget. i think the message from the committee on transport was quite clear: we must at least provide the means for what we want politically, especially when it comes to the environment and safety. we know the problem of transport, it affects us internationally, nationally, but also locally. the citizens expect signs, not only of the management of crisis situations, but also of a sustainable policy in these areas. the second point, which i think was very important, concerns the transeuropean networks. we must not forget that we are 25 now and not 15. we have made a realistic estimate of the appropriations, also in the light of the present situation and the commission's description. we know that there is no point in providing more money than is currently being spent on projects. but we also want to send a signal that we want to plan a transeuropean network with 25 countries and beyond tomorrow, and these accents are also expected by the new countries represented here in parliament. mobility and transport are at the crossroads of economy, security and the environment and affect all citizens who want to live together in europe. so i want these well-known accents to be financially well-off.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. mr president, madam commissioner, mr minister, i would first of all like to thank my colleagues on the committee on budgets, and in particular the general rapporteur, our friend mr gariga polledo, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, for supporting and approving most of the amendments tabled by the committee on civil liberties. i would like to highlight four of them. firstly, following the fourniret case, which recently shook belgium and france, we have provided a new budget line to enable the commission to make proposals to organise the interconnection of national criminal conviction registers for crimes such as paedophilia, sexual assault and serious crimes committed by repeat offenders. secondly, as regards the visa information system, commonly known as the vis, we have put the bulk of the appropriations in reserve and these will only be released when the commission has presented, as it has announced, a second proposal describing precisely the architecture and operation of the vis system as such. this is a sensitive area in terms of personal data protection. thirdly, as regards the agency for the management of external borders, we have set aside all the appropriations. i am not saying that we do not agree with the importance of this agency and the need to make it operational as soon as possible, but on the contrary, we will release the appropriations from the reserve when the council has taken a decision on the final seat of the agency. we ask the council to take a decision before the end of this year. if the agency is strategic, it cannot be satisfied with a temporary headquarters with all the operational costs and inconveniences that result. fourthly, we have also reserved the bulk of the appropriations requested under the heading of passenger rights. we are all aware of the dispute between parliament and the commission in this respect, concerning the level of protection of personal data which airlines must provide to the us customs authorities. the commission has repeatedly promised that the current passive data transmission system, the pull system, will be replaced by an active system, the push system. the commission has not yet taken any action. the appropriations will be released when the commission has fulfilled its commitments. i should like to mention one last amendment which the committee on budgets has unfortunately not adopted, and i regret that. the commission's intention to launch a preparatory action on the management of the return of migrants who are not authorised to remain in the union. of course, it is desirable and urgent to organise better cooperation between the member states in this area, but this must be done in accordance with the rules, whereas in a preparatory action there are no rules. in declaration no 5 annexed to the treaty of nice, the heads of state or government solemnly requested the council to take a decision on this matter as from 1 may 2004, in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 251, i.e. qualified majority and codecision. the council did nothing, ignoring the will of the heads of government and the rights of parliament. i would like to see the council's institutional delinquency punished by supporting amendment no 146 tabled by the committee on civil liberties.
the commission. the commission has just a few days ago submitted a detailed report on the situation in turkey with regard to torture and ill-treatment. i refer you to the commission's periodic report published on 6 october 2004. the report already contains the results of the visit to which the honourable member refers. during this visit, commission representatives met with representatives of five human rights organisations, two forensic medical organisations, representatives of the government and the police, gendarmerie and judicial control services. the commission has concluded that further efforts have been made to strengthen the fight against torture and ill-treatment. the provisions of the new criminal code are important in this context. the procedures for pre-trial detention have been brought up to european standards, although detainees are not always informed of their rights by the prison officials. the authorities have declared a zero-tolerance policy on torture, and many torture practitioners have been punished. the commission notes that turkey still has many cases of ill-treatment and possibly torture, and that the aim is to eradicate this practice completely. the turkish government must make further efforts to this end. in its recommendation on turkey's progress towards accession, the commission underlines the need to consolidate and expand reform processes and also the fight against torture and ill-treatment, and that the commission will continue to monitor this process closely.
president, commissioner, my question was whether the commission intends to continue sending investigative teams to turkey in the future, as soon as there are complaints about torture in that country. i think the commissioner will agree with me that turkey is a very special candidate country. today, the german newspaper die welt published an article which stated that more than 11 000 political refugees have arrived in germany alone since the beginning of 2003. so how is something like this possible? either such a country is democratic - and there can be no political refugees - or there is a real problem.
the commission mr president, this short series of questions shows us the variety of subjects on which the commission is working in the field of competition. i would like to reply to mr staes that the honourable member is certainly aware that the commission launched an investigation into the market for inkjet and laser printers at the beginning of 2003. since then, the commission has collected a large amount of evidence and has conducted numerous interviews with printer manufacturers and suppliers of regenerated cartridges. the investigations focused on the issue of whether printer manufacturers infringed community competition rules because of the shape and price of their cartridges. the investigation is very complex, both economically and legally. the commission is currently finalising its analysis of the evidence collected and it is still premature to state whether or not there is an infringement of the competition law or whether the procedure can be closed. it is clear that the commission will make public any further information in this respect as soon as possible.
i thank the commissioner for his answer. i would point out that - i have even done the research once - 75 centilitres of ink from an inkjet printer is more expensive than a bottle of champagne. this is unreal. i have the strong impression that this is a pair sale, where the printers themselves are actually offered very cheaply and the ink is sold very expensive. i am satisfied with the commissioner's answer for the time being, but i would point out that this study must be completed urgently, because this is not in the interests of consumers.
council. mr president, on 5 november the first european council under this netherlands presidency will be held. the last european council under a netherlands presidency took place in amsterdam in june 1997 and resulted, as you know, in the treaty of amsterdam. there are no such grand ambitions this time around. however, it will not surprise you that the major topics of the forthcoming european council coincide with some of the main items discussed seven years ago. in 1997, as a consequence of the procedures for approval of the maastricht treaty - which had caused problems in some member states - the issue of how the union could be brought closer to the citizens was added as an agenda item. that issue has lost none of its immediacy. at the forthcoming summit we shall also be discussing citizens' involvement in the european union. the other important topics for the european council are: first, a new multiannual programme for justice and home affairs; second, preparation of the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy and the luxembourg presidency next year; and, third, external relations. i shall start with cooperation in the area of justice and home affairs. this is a highly important topic for this european council. on the basis of the tampere european council programme, much work has been done over the last five years to create a european area of freedom, security and justice. the european union has strengthened cooperation between the member states' justice and police departments and developed policy in the area of asylum, migration and external borders, but the work is not complete. the problems facing the union are very much cross-border in nature: terrorism, organised crime, and flows of asylum seekers and illegal immigrants. in addition, the attacks of 11 september 2001 in new york and 11 march 2004 in madrid have shown more than ever the extraordinary scale of the challenge of improving citizens' security. at the same time, the union must ensure that citizens can continue to enjoy their fundamental freedoms and travel freely within the union. the council has therefore drawn up the programme for the next five years on the basis of the evaluation submitted by the commission in june. this new multiannual programme - also called the hague programme - builds on the tampere programme. over the last two days the justice and home affairs ministers have been discussing this project further in luxembourg. the council has reached broad agreement on the substance of the programme. the issue of qualified majority voting and codecision on asylum and immigration matters may, however, be the subject of further discussion in the general affairs council. another point of discussion was the common asylum system. it seems that a reasonable compromise has been reached on this issue. the intention is that the european council should establish the multiannual programme. the hague programme is based on the constitutional treaty but does not anticipate it. the presidency's aim is that the multiannual programme should make maximum use of the possibilities offered by the current treaty. other aspects of the new multiannual programme include combating illegal immigration, a strengthened partnership with third countries and a common visa policy, formulating basic principles for the integration of migrants, effective border surveillance, rapid information exchange between justice, police and security departments, combating terrorism and working towards a genuine european legal area. these are all essential components of a more secure europe where the rule of law prevails and each person knows his freedom is a reality. the intention is that the european council will ask the commission to submit an action plan in 2005 with the measures to be adopted and related deadlines for the implementation of this multiannual programme. the second topic is the preparation of the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy. as you are aware, during the luxembourg presidency essential issues concerning the lisbon strategy will be up for discussion. the spring council in march 2005 will have to address the mid-term evaluation of the lisbon strategy. the netherlands presidency wishes to make its contribution to the success of this important spring council. on 4 november the european council will take note of the report by wim kok's working party. the european council can subsequently ask the commission and the council to use the kok report as a starting point for their preparation of the spring council. at a dinner for heads of state and government, an informal discussion will be held on public support for reform of the member states' economies under the title 'managing change'. the discussion will be introduced by the german chancellor, the prime minister of finland and the prime minister of slovakia. they will share their experiences in this area with the other members of the european council. the new president of the commission will then explain briefly his vision for the future of the lisbon strategy. the role of the social partners in implementing the lisbon strategy will also be on the agenda at this european council. prior to the european council meeting, the tripartite social summit of employers and employees will take place at european level. as i said in my introduction, we will also focus on citizens' involvement in the european union. following the disappointing turnout at the last european parliamentary elections, the june european council decided it was time to return to this matter. to prepare the discussion in the european council, the presidency organised an informal meeting of the european affairs ministers on 5 october, exclusively devoted to increasing citizens' involvement in europe. the meeting focused on the forthcoming ratification procedures in member states, which entail referenda in at least ten countries. the outcome of that meeting will serve as the basis for discussion within the european council. the third topic of importance to the european council is external relations. four subjects will be discussed. first, the situation in iraq: the european council will examine a package of support measures for iraq's interim government. this package will be presented formally during the working lunch with iraqi prime minister allawi. the package will, i hope, contain a political statement of intent for establishing relations with the eu and also a series of specific measures supporting the iraqi interim government. here i am thinking of eu support for the elections early next year, activities relating to civilian crisis management – such as police training – and building up the skills of the judiciary. not only will this demonstrate the unity of the european union, so badly needed following the events of the last year and a half, but it will also allow us in the union to contribute actively to a real improvement in the situation in iraq. the european council will also address the situation in the middle east. we will look at how the eu can further contribute to the peace process in the short and medium term against the background of the political decision in israel on plans to withdraw from the gaza strip. i cannot say at this stage what might emerge from this discussion. as far as i am concerned, the five key points formulated at the march european council are still valid. the european council will also briefly discuss iran. the international community, which includes the eu, must unanimously continue to put pressure on iran to totally suspend all enrichment activities and improve its human rights situation. in this connection, the meeting of the iaea board of governors on 25 november will be an important benchmark. lastly, we will reflect on the situation in sudan, especially in darfur. we must bring pressure to bear on all the parties to achieve progress in the various peace processes. our starting point remains that if progress is insufficient, suitable measures – including sanctions – are definitely an option. the council will also discuss positive action, including the support the eu can offer to the recently approved extension of the african union's mission in darfur. that is an overview of the forthcoming european council, for which preparations are currently in full swing. the presidency will brief you on the outcome of the summit at the november part–session. (applause)
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i was going to start my speech with the phrase 'next week we will have a new commission', but i prefer to leave that to your decision today ... (applause)... and say that whatever happens today, we are facing a change of office. the term of office of the present commission is coming to an end and a new commission will take office. but this does not mean that we are at the beginning of a completely new policy, but that the basic outlines of european policy will be continuous, whatever your decision. it is important to point out that the major issues at stake in europe at the moment are outside the realm of dispute and that european policy will be reliable, stable and continuous even after the change of government. it is against this background that president barroso, the commissioner you have appointed and elected, affirmed here yesterday morning that the future commission, like the previous one, is committed to creating a competitive europe, to improving the competitiveness of the european economy. the lisbon strategy remains and must remain at the heart of these efforts, with all its essential components. however, we must fundamentally change one thing: we must not be content with drawing up plans, we must not be content with developing ambitious perspectives, we must also work seriously to implement these plans and ambitions, that is, to really bring this lisbon strategy to life. the other essential point that the president-designate has highlighted is the creation of a secure europe. a europe that focuses on the needs of its citizens. we want a europe which deepens its external relations with all its important partners, above all with the future member states and with its neighbours in general. the european council intends to discuss issues closely related to these issues next week. i would like to highlight the main points, particularly in relation to the lisbon strategy and the new programme to strengthen the rule of law, freedom and security. as regards the lisbon strategy, the commission very much welcomes the mid-term review, the decisive phase of which is now beginning. the high-level group chaired by former dutch prime minister wim kok will present its report next week. the commission expects to be given a mandate on the basis of this report to prepare concrete proposals for this mid-term review in view of the spring council. this is the window of opportunity and the moment in which we will be able to put the lisbon strategy on the right track. that's not to say that nothing has happened in the last five years, but there's no point in talking about the facts. the commission has not done enough, and it must be said with all seriousness that a number of member states have, above all, lacked the energy to follow up their promises with action. this has to change now. the commission is prepared to continue to examine all the possibilities for actually stepping up the process and also for better monitoring. the commission believes that the union really needs to focus on the growth aspect now. europe needs dynamic, sustainable growth if we are to achieve more employment and safeguard our social model. this requires more entrepreneurship, more innovation and more investment in research and education. we must implement the reforms in europe that will strengthen the economic dynamism. europe must play its cards in education, knowledge and technological development to become a genuine knowledge-based economy that can compete in the increasingly fierce international competition. but i would like to make it very clear again that the creation of a more dynamic and competitive europe must go hand in hand with the preservation of the european social model. the only way to preserve this model is to make europe more dynamic and more competitive. we should not forget that in some of our member states we are still far from having a really adequate social protection. competitiveness, cohesion and solidarity must be promoted in parallel, in a kind of step-by-step way. the lisbon mid-term review gives us the opportunity to achieve these objectives. in this context, i would like to point out that the commission is continuing to strive to improve legislation, i.e. to make it simpler and clearer, and in particular to place more emphasis on the broadest possible impact assessment, which also shows the impact of our legislation on the parts of society concerned, but in particular on the economy and on businesses. the presidency has focused on measures to simplify, improve impact assessment and identify administrative burdens. the commission fully supports this. we are cooperating in these measures and we welcome the work of the high-level group of experts from parliament, the commission and the council on better regulation. as regards the area of freedom, justice and security, the european council will adopt a multiannual programme, as a follow-up to the tampere programmes, which will determine the union's action in this area in the coming years. since tampere we have laid the foundations for a common area of freedom, security and justice. the new hague programme will continue these efforts with the same vision and a renewed willingness to cooperate with an enlarged and expanding union, based on the fundamental values of rights, freedom and security for all citizens. since tampere we have adjusted our priorities in the light of the many tragic events and horrific attacks we have witnessed in recent years. the recognition that member states are not alone in meeting these new challenges has become widely accepted. to succeed, we must continue to work together within the union. another important element was the gradual development of a new policy, the policy on fundamental rights. the inclusion of the charter of fundamental rights in the constitutional treaty, the future accession to the european convention on human rights, the development of article 7 mechanisms, the adoption of the anti-discrimination directives, all have their impact on the union and are reflected in all areas of union policy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. these elements are a reminder that we need to find the right balance between the need for freedom and the demand for freedom and the security aspect. the development of security in recent years has forced us to give priority to the fight against terrorism. we're not going to be able to get away with that either. we should not forget, however, that the effective prevention and combating of all serious forms of organised crime must also continue. this will be taken into account in the new programme. with regard to practical implementation, the commission welcomes the council's decision to introduce the codecision procedure for the sectors covered by title iv of the treaty of nice. the commission will present a progress report on the results and actual implementation each year. the european council next week will then discuss how europe can be communicated to the citizens. this is a task which i do not need to explain here in this house because each of you deals with this task on a daily basis, and we certainly all agree that communication can be improved and that it must be one of the most important priorities. we must close the visible gap between the european institutions and the citizens. i believe that the ratification of the constitutional treaty in all member states will provide a great opportunity to discuss europe with citizens and to involve them in european political processes. the ratification process is of course a national matter everywhere. but the commission will, as part of this process, step up its communication activities to help wherever information on the constitution and its benefits to our union is to be explained. it goes without saying that such a communication campaign can only be carried out in close cooperation and partnership with the european parliament. in conclusion, let me say a word about enlargement. the european council will not decide on the latest commission reports in the coming weeks, but will simply discuss them and present them. the commission has already sent parliament proposals which it adopted earlier this month. i think we have reached a very important point in terms of enlargement. we can now foresee with some certainty that the fifth enlargement will be completed in 2007 with the accession of romania and bulgaria, as planned. we can predict quite accurately that we will start negotiations with croatia early next year, and we know that at the end of this year the big and far-reaching decision will have to be made whether or not to open negotiations with turkey. let me say again that the commission has made an effort to make a consensus-based proposal. a proposal which has followed very closely what has been discussed in the member states and what has been discussed in this parliament - in all the groups of this parliament. the aim was to incorporate as much as possible of the thoughts, ideas and fears and concerns that we share in the proposal. the commission is therefore convinced that the proposals it has made provide a good basis for the decisions to be taken. ladies and gentlemen, the commission believes that the european council next week will be an excellent opportunity to demonstrate the continuity of european policy on the one hand and a new dynamic in european policy on the other. (applause from the centre)
on behalf of the group of the european people's party president, president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, one of the main items on the agenda for next week's european council is, of course, the report on the mid-term evaluation of the lisbon process. the key words of that program are familiar to almost everyone: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the development of vocational training. everyone is talking about it, everyone is behind it, but the results are lacking or are far too vague. of course, the world has changed a lot since lisbon. certain countries in asia are experiencing enormous growth and the union itself has also grown considerably. we have added ten countries, and that does not make it any easier. we have also learned - and we were told this explicitly in the spring - that the member states do adopt lisbon guidelines, but they show far less enthusiasm for implementing them. we also note that the structural measures which are imposed in the member states are not or are not everywhere or certainly not everywhere being taken to a sufficient degree. should we therefore weaken the ambitions of lisbon because they are not achievable? the opposite is necessary, a tooth will be better. i hope that the dutch presidency will be able to give a first impulse to steer the debate in the right direction. but the question, of course, is how do we get there, what is needed. what we do not want to see is the weakening of the stability pact. what we must not do is to allow ourselves to be so narrowly restricted in our own room for manoeuvre that it is effectively reduced to zero when we discuss the financial perspective. what we have to do from europe is to facilitate the evolution and for that many things are necessary and also possible. i have always wondered whether the member states could not commit themselves to each other in such a way that they could use that commitment as an external factor to call upon when they lack the courage internally to do what they have to do and are tempted to put off doing what they have to do for another year. it helped when we created monetary union and it can help now. should we not all make an effort to speak about the lisbon process in other words, to present it in a different way to men and women? adjusting our vocabulary can also help the matter go a long way. we have always spoken of growth and competitiveness, but we can also speak of prosperity for more people and more opportunities for good jobs. we talk about the problem of ageing, we can also talk about prospects for a longer and better life. we must improve the message, but we must also provide a good messenger, and that too has been lacking in recent years. i hope we will have a new committee chairman who also looks after that side of his job, because we need that. this can be an incentive to promote processes such as the lisbon process. that is our task and we must all contribute to it. if you are going to vote against the proposed commission, ladies and gentlemen, remember that this will also be a factor which will slow down the progress of the lisbon process, and that is not what people are waiting for. i wish you every success, mr president-in-office. (applause from the left)
mr president, i shall concentrate on the problems of enlargement and on the important date for the opening of accession negotiations with turkey. i would first like to congratulate commissioner verheugen on the excellent report he has given us on turkey. i think we can find everything in it, both arguments in favour of this accession and elements which only reinforce the fears we may have. the discussion we started last night in the foreign affairs committee has made it possible to distinguish between two 'clans'. the first is that it is already beginning to lay down the requirements for everything that turkey should do before accession negotiations are even started. the human rights are involved - and we are very aware of this - cyprus, the situation of the kurds, all of which must be dealt with but which can be dealt with over a very long period during the accession negotiations. on the other hand, others, like my group, believe that turkey is a chance for europe at the geopolitical and geostrategic level. we must monitor the conditions of this accession very seriously. we must not say 'yes' or 'no' but start working in a completely fair way, that is to say, in the same way as we have worked with other countries. however, i would be surprised, commissioner, if we did not have more scenarios or perspectives in this report on the impact of turkey's accession on our social model. will we be able to continue, for example, the current social cohesion policy and the structural funds which are essential for european cohesion? will this social model not be undermined by enlargements which do not take account of it? we have only very vague ideas about the adjustments europe needs to make to a future membership, and that seems to me to be quite insufficient. the question of turkey's membership is above all a european question. will we be able to expand while maintaining our model of solidarity? we will be particularly vigilant in this respect, as we will be in the matter of human rights in turkey.
mr president, i apologize for the lateness of the hour. it is good that we as the european union are seeking a strategic alliance with india to promote peace, security, human rights and democracy. our trade relations with india are also important. the country is developing very successfully into a major economic growth hub. in this respect, it is necessary to reflect on the consequences of the outsourcing of european jobs to india. the present report goes beyond that quite easily. another aspect that deserves more attention is the difficult relationship between india and pakistan. i am not just talking about the kashmir issue. the european union must clearly condemn pakistan's ambiguous attitude, to say the least, towards international muslim terrorism. the terrorists who are harbored in pakistan are a threat not only to india but to the whole world and therefore to the european union.
i need advice. thank you for asking. i regret that i cannot add much to what i said at the beginning, because it is not formally a matter for the council or the presidency. the european union is not conducting the field exercises that the questioner is concerned about. i take those concerns very seriously. i have already mentioned the ongoing investigations and the commitment and interest we are showing in this regard. i can say that we will continue to follow developments and investigations.
i need advice. thank you, mr president. neither the european council nor the council has taken a position on the matters raised by the honourable member, since they fall within the competence of the member states, somewhat similar to what i have just mentioned. article 106 of the treaty clearly defines the respective powers of the european central bank and the member states for the issue of euro banknotes and coins. paragraph 1 provides that the ecb has the exclusive right to authorise the issue of banknotes. the issue is made by the ecb and the national central banks. paragraph 2 provides that member states may issue coins under two conditions. first, the ecb must approve the volume of the issue and, second, the coins issued must comply with any other legislative measures harmonising their nominal value and technical specifications. council regulation (ec) no 975/98 lays down the denominations and technical specifications of the coins that may be issued by the member states. it is up to the member states, mr president, to decide within this framework how many coins of any nominal value they wish to issue, whereas any issue must be approved by the european central bank.
thank you, mr president. i thank the president-in-office for his reply. i am also aware, of course, that this is a matter for the member states. however, i think that if there are differing views in the euro area and in the various member states on whether or not to continue to spend certain small euro cents or whether or not to introduce price rounding, it is difficult to speak of a price policy or a financial policy in the euro area. i would therefore ask the president-in-office of the council if he would be willing to put this to the council of finance ministers for discussion.
in that case, mr president, the second part of amendment no 210 was also a comment, and i think it was also a majority at that time.
mr president, the health of a nation is measured by various indicators: women's rights, freedom of the press, the democratic nature of its political institutions and the strength of its civil society. iran is a great country for us european citizens. its deep culture - and i would not hesitate to say sometimes its genius - is reflected in its art, in its literature and in the force of expression of its civil society. it's a great country that europe respects. today iran, based on these indicators, is not doing well. a year ago, there were a few of us in iran who hoped that, at the time of the elections, the reformists who had been voted off the list of candidates would be reinstated. we were terribly disappointed. many of us today hope that iranian women will regain the freedom to dress, the freedom to laugh, the freedom to listen to music and also the freedom to have a judgment, and for example to exercise the function of a judge. but this is almost anecdotal. we are concerned today, and this emergency resolution proves it, for three reasons. today miners are sentenced to death in iran, and one of them, 16-year-old ateqeh rajabi, was hanged. freedom of the press and of the internet no longer exist. the resolution lists the names of journalists who have been arrested, including omid memarian, whom i personally invited to the european parliament in november. stoning continues despite the moratorium on stoning, which i still hope will lead to real legislation, and the dialogue between the european union and iran on human rights is still at the verbal stage. out of respect for this great country, i hope that this situation will change. i have been flooded for two days, since that resolution, with letters from the iranian embassy telling us, "but no, you have unreliable sources, none of this is happening". that iran proves to us that 'this is not happening' and that it remains a partner that we, the european union, can continue to appreciate, both in terms of human rights and in terms of politics.
mr president, as you said, we cannot give up on the question of human rights. at the last session we adopted a resolution on the human rights problem in iran. since then, the situation has continued to deteriorate. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are still arrests, as evidenced by the arrests of dr mabobeh abbasgholizadeh and mrs fereshteh qâzi, human rights defenders. this situation is unacceptable and i think you should ask the president of the council to mobilize our ambassadors in tehran so that human rights are finally respected there. the fact that we have reached a nuclear agreement does not mean that we should turn a blind eye to what is happening in iran every day.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the romeva report is a very balanced report. it contains a number of interesting recommendations for improving the code of conduct on arms exports, which i hope the council will take into account this time. only then can the code become an efficient and effective control instrument, legally binding, with penalties for non-compliance. i would like to refer specifically to paragraph 20 of the report, which calls for the eu embargo against china to be maintained. to lift this embargo now would be a particularly bad signal. it would be a textbook example, i think, of hypocrisy and selectivity when it comes to defending and protecting human rights worldwide. the values and standards which the union stands for should then once again give way to blatant mercantilism. the prospect of large orders for german submarines and french aircraft seems to some to be enough to break the arms embargo against china. the union would thus become a pawnbroker trading its principles for a handful of silver coins, and that cannot happen under the dutch presidency, mr nicolaï. europe cannot possibly supply arms to a country which wants to use military force to ensure its territorial unity. already there is a constant military threat in the streets of taiwan, where more than five hundred missiles are deployed. it is therefore a false excuse that the code of conduct on arms exports would impose strict restrictions. the danger of china's arms transfers to third world countries remains latent. in any case, the lifting of the arms embargo against china cannot be an option for our group, hic et nunc.
president. - mr president, i would like to emphasize once again that, as mr nicolaï rightly said, the code of conduct is a very important instrument. but, colleagues, let us be realistic. the daily practice, including that of my own country, shows that there are still many loopholes, that definitions are unclear, that refusals are sometimes ignored and that commercial interests too often take precedence over respect for human rights. and that creates untold misery. that causes untold injuries, untold deaths. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, our parliament rightly calls for stricter wording. the commission has therefore rightly called for the code to be made legally binding. this is why we need more control, including on end use. that is why it is right that the embargo against china should be maintained. i therefore fully support the countries such as the netherlands, the united kingdom, ireland, the scandinavian countries, poland and the czech republic, which continue to say in the council that they want to maintain this embargo. mr nicolaï, please do not lift the embargo, not at the eu-china summit on 8 december and not at the european council on 17 december. you have our full support.
in fact, mr president, it is astonishing that the lifting of the arms embargo against china is even being considered. that arms embargo is not an anachronism, as one speaker has just said. the continuation of the embargo is first and foremost a human rights issue. it is not because china's demographic size offers an extraordinarily interesting economic potential that we should suddenly throw our principles of human rights overboard. if a country like france gets its way and the embargo against china is lifted, the european union will lose all its credibility. it is not just a question of human rights, it is also the fact that china is a direct threat to a democratic country like taiwan. there are over 600 missiles aimed at taiwan and it is a disgrace that even the thought of supplying new weapons to a country which poses such a threat to a democratic country is being considered.
president. - i was a little surprised to hear commissioner patten say that the 'annan plan' remains a good basis for a possible reunification of cyprus. let us not forget that a referendum was held on that plan in april of this year, and that the plan was rejected by an overwhelming majority of the greek cypriots. when a referendum is held, the result must be respected. financial support for the turkish-occupied part of the island was only provided for if the annan plan was approved by referendum. so that didn't happen. the 259 million euro to be allocated to the northern part of cyprus is a de facto recognition of the military occupation of that area by more than 35 000 turkish troops. the european union seems to have no problem with a candidate country occupying a part of the territory of an existing member state by military means. not only are we about to start accession negotiations with turkey, but now the occupation of northern cyprus is being rewarded financially. this is absurd.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, the frustration over the greek cypriot rejection of the annan plan continues. today, every european can see how the union is abandoning its own principles by offering a non-european state, in this case turkey, the prospect of joining the eu, while that state is militarily occupying part of the territory of the present member state of cyprus. that is why the 'annan plan' had to be approved and would be approved, and the greek cypriots were intimidated from all sides to accept this half-hearted proposal. that is why the turkish cypriots are being spoiled by european policymakers today. but this is turning things upside down. without going into detail, i would like to recall very briefly why the greek cypriots rejected this plan. the 'annan plan' legitimizes the turkish invasion of 1974 and the war crimes that accompanied it. the turkish occupation army is allowed to remain in cyprus and retains the right to hold military exercises on cypriot soil. the military border will be stabilized and armed border posts will continue to carry out passport controls. the turkish cypriots continue to live under turkish occupation. their poor economic situation is not to be attributed to an embargo of the greek people but rather to the corrupt turkish economic system on the ground. if the annan plan had been ratified, the more than one hundred thousand turkish settlers who moved to cyprus in the wake of operation attila under pressure from the government in ankara to carry out further ethnic cleansing would have been able to remain on the island. financial aid to the turkish cypriots, who i sincerely hope will be reunited with the greek cypriots in an independent cyprus without foreign occupation in the foreseeable future, must therefore be subject to a number of strict conditions. the main one is the disappearance of the turkish military occupation. the aid should in no way be considered as a reward for a politically correct vote in a referendum.
president. - mr president, i am not going to go into the details of the debate, but i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the debate on the cuban crisis has been postponed until the end of the year. but the fundamental question we have to ask ourselves is how can we best achieve this, how can we best help the cuban people. can dialogue with the cuban authorities and thus with the majority of civil society reject it ? i don't think it was. and yet that is the reality on the ground today. the european people are no longer being consulted, and the european union's common position has not produced sufficient results, and so an evaluation is necessary, a rational evaluation and, if necessary, an adjustment of that common position. i have recently been to cuba with a number of colleagues and we have seen with our own eyes a number of positive things in the field of education, for example, or in the field of health care. let us tell them this and let us also tell them that there are a lot of things in cuba that we do not like at all. but at least let us have the dialogue, just as we have with other countries such as china, saudi arabia or vietnam.
ladies and gentlemen, mr president, in this european parliament there is a lot of talk about human rights throughout the world, but in my own country my own party, the flemish bloc, was outlawed last week by politically appointed judges, while the parties calling themselves democratic were applauding. the court of cassation has, after a four-year legal comedy, outlawed our party after a political centre for the fight against racism, at the request of the prime minister and with public funds, brought a case against the main opposition party, the flemish bloc, for a pure opinion crime. politically appointed judges, no doubt in exchange for some future appointment, have readily responded to this call by the belgian state to outlaw the largest party in flanders. i hope, therefore, that if the credibility of this institution is to be maintained, there will be a loud protest within europe against the totalitarian methods used in a member state of the union to outlaw parties.
mr president, the death of yasser arafat opens up a new era for palestine, one full of uncertainties. the palestinian constitution provides for a 60-day period for holding presidential elections. today, however, these elections could be hindered by various factors. firstly, the free movement of palestinians in gaza, the west bank and east jerusalem is essential, both for the electoral campaign and for the preparation, holding and processing of the elections. but this freedom of movement is far from guaranteed. east jerusalem is the most problematic, as israeli authorities are opposed to palestinian registration on electoral lists. i therefore ask the council to press with the united states for the withdrawal of israeli troops currently deployed in the occupied territories. secondly, the question of the eligibility of a candidate. it is up to the palestinian authorities, and them alone, to decide who is eligible based on their own criteria. thirdly, the material organization and monitoring of the regularity of the elections: here the experience and material support of the european union will be indispensable. fourthly, the security of the elections. it must be guaranteed for candidates, voters and observers alike. the palestinian police are unarmed and are struggling to provide civilian security. political security depends on the control of extremist groups. the recent attempt by fatah to integrate hamas into a national unity government, provided that it renounces armed struggle, is something that europe must follow with the greatest attention. i would like to know at this stage what options are being considered with the palestinians to ensure the security of the elections. the voice of europe - i am sorry to say, mr president - has been almost inaudible in the quartet. let's not waste this opportunity to make our voices heard. we must stand firmly with palestine today to ensure that elections at all levels are held in freedom, just as we will always stand - need i say? - with israel to stop the indiscriminate attacks that are grieving families. i believe that the future of some people can no longer be thought of independently of that of others.
mr president of parliament, mr president of the council, mr president-elect of the commission. we know your team, we've heard the players and i'm pleased that we expect the kick-off to be given tomorrow so that your team can start in good conditions. we are all bound by the rules of the treaty. the composition of the commission requires cooperation between the institutions. it is the responsibility of each of these institutions, including our colleagues, to ensure that there is actually a commission at a given moment. it has not been an easy delivery this time, but if the child is strong enough, mr. president-elect, it can certainly develop and blossom. we must therefore work together, each on his own terms, and let us therefore cooperate openly, loyally, constructively and productively. not for our own comfort, but because the people expect something from us. for these people it does not matter who does what, mr president, they judge on the basis of the final balance: what does the union do for us? and they want a say. let us therefore, mr president-elect, make use of the partnership you have mentioned twice, a partnership between the institutions, the member states, the social partners, consumers and citizens. let us therefore work towards an ambitious programme and make commitments that maximize the chances of tackling the real challenges we face. and this means, of course, implementing enlargement and promoting the ratification of the constitution, but for us this also means, and above all, that we determine how we can contribute to the achievement of the lisbon objectives of growth, jobs, welfare and a better quality of life. that we regulate asylum and migration policy and do so in a humane way. that we fight terrorism without undermining fundamental freedoms and that the union can play an important role on the international scene. good luck with that, chairman. you can count on our cooperation.
mr president, mr barroso, i think we all share the concern to have a competent and visionary commission. but i am still listening to you today and i can tell you frankly that i fear that the prodi commission is going backwards in the very conception of european growth policy. i have heard you say before: there is no such thing, mr barroso, as economic and competitive issues on the one hand and social and environmental issues on the other. i agree with mr rasmussen, but i would add that if we do not return to the conclusions of the gothenburg european council, which commit the whole of the union and which really put this strategy at the heart of a european strategy for qualitative growth, and if, in addition, india and china were to follow your words, well, in this century the earth's ecosystem would be in a catastrophic state. so i ask you, in january, when you present your proposals, to return to the main conclusions of the gothenburg european council for a policy of qualitative growth in favour of employment and the environment. (applause) i would like to thank
i am convinced, mr president, that we will approve the new commission tomorrow by a large majority, and that is a good thing, because it is also a basic condition for having a strong commission. it is also a prerequisite for good cooperation between the two institutions during this parliamentary term. some have described the events of the last few weeks as a crisis of the institutions. nothing could be further from the truth, and the president of the european council rightly pointed this out this morning. just because it's the first time, doesn't mean it wouldn't be the normal procedure. it is certainly to president barroso's credit that the game has been played, and that has strengthened his position and perhaps also led to a stronger commission. the president of the commission did not have an easy time of it, and it is also clear that we must learn a number of lessons from it. it has been shown that the president of the commission is in an uncomfortable position in this procedure. on the one hand, the member states leave him little or no room to choose the commissioners. on the other hand, parliament treats this matter as if it had a free choice. to avoid such a situation, the convention had proposed that each member state should nominate three commissioners, at least one of whom should be a man and one a woman. the president-elect would thus have a real choice and could form a balanced commission. unfortunately, the igc has deleted this provision. in the light of recent experience, i think it would be advisable to consider taking this provision into account in practice, albeit as an agreement between the institutions. it's not in the constitution, but it's not against the constitution. i think that we as the european parliament should be involved in the evaluation of the whole procedure. i shall be dealing with this in the report by mr andrew duff. i think it is essential that we preserve the collegial nature of the commission in this respect. the european parliament's approval of individual commissioners would jeopardize this. we must avoid becoming a gouvernement d'assemblée. we must be vigilant about the balance between the institutions.
in writing. last july, i voted against the nomination of mr barroso as president of the commission because i did not think he was the candidate that european citizens were entitled to expect. his position in favour of attacking iraq, outside of any international law, was also unacceptable. at the october part-session i opposed the barroso i commission, which is absolutely unacceptable. if mr barroso had not backed down at the last minute to avoid a personal, bitter defeat, i would of course have voted no. mr barroso has slightly changed the team he tried to impose on us. i remain firmly opposed to the appointment of mrs neelie kroes to the competition portfolio today because her presence creates a significant risk of conflict of interest. but it is important that a new commission can finally get to work. so i voted yes, but it was reluctantly. like many of my colleagues, i am now waiting with bated breath for the presentation of his political programme. i will be very careful to ensure that this programme is one in which the social expectations of the citizens are given a prominent place. in accordance with rule 163, (short explanation of vote pursuant to rule 163)
the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the new commission is able to take on board the new responsibilities. it has made it very easy for me today to vote against this new commission. it is a shame, and we must take note of it again today, that a man of ability is being sacrificed on the altar of political correctness, simply because he also has a personal belief which is clearly not the belief of the majority in this parliament. that is the case even though the same commission we have approved today has people like louis michel, the personal friend, collaborator, supporter and confidant of dictators with blood on their hands, like laurent kabila then or fidel castro today. it's a shame, but at least things are clear. this commission is politically correct, this commission wants to throw the european constitution down our throats with yet more sausage of unity. this commission wants to set us up with a non-european country like turkey. we will not renounce our true european ideals. we are going to fight this commission, mr president, with all our might in the years to come.
president. - the president of the commission calls the composition of his team a compromise. it is a compromise which is not satisfactory. rocco buttiglione had to disappear after a left-wing hate campaign for expressing opinions that would not be politically correct. the possible conflict of interest alleged by mrs kroes and mrs fischer-boel is apparently not a problem. mr kovács's communist and stalinist past is also not a problem. two measures and two weights, that's all there is to say about that. we talk a lot about democracy, but in reality freedom of expression is restricted and the will of the people is not taken into account. the turkish question is a perfect illustration of this. the new commission, against the wishes of the vast majority of europeans, is also determined to force turkey's accession at any cost. that is another reason why the commission today is a commission that does not deserve any support or confidence.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party president. - i should like to begin by congratulating the commissioner. it's her first debate here and i hope we'll work well together. commissioner, i listened to you very carefully. you said: we have offered to help the russians rebuild the country once security is guaranteed. commissioner, that is putting the cart before the horse. that's not the way to do business. we all know that there is no peace in chechnya, that there is an imposed peace process which has no basis and that human rights are being violated every day. we all know that the situation in russia is particularly serious. i know this from the latest book by anna politkovskaya, an independent journalist, who describes in her new book putin's russia how human rights are violated daily in russia, how the grip of the central authority on the press is strengthened daily and how the power of the kgb/fsb is increasing. we all see the seriousness of the situation and the need to initiate a genuine peace process in chechnya. the european union has a role to play in this. we are indeed the nearest neighbours and we can play a part in that. not by building houses there, but by having a real peace conference. i am therefore surprised that the russians do not even want to hear about talks between ordinary citizens, between representatives of the soldier mothers who are concerned about the fate of their children, who are concerned about peace and respect for human rights and who want to talk to representatives of the mashkadov government and mr sakayev. that the russians are even putting pressure on governments, particularly the belgian government, to deny mr sakayev access to this country and to this parliament. that is unacceptable. that is something which we as members of parliament cannot accept and against which we must protest. if a major group in this parliament wants to have talks between soldier mothers and mr sakayev, then this must be possible under parliamentary immunity, otherwise belgium is not worth keeping the seat of the european parliament here in brussels.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, i too would like to thank the commission for its statement, although i hope that commissioner kyprianou can come here soon with more news, with more hard facts and with more hard intentions from the commission. i would also like to thank human aids in particular for their focus on women and girls and hiv/aids on this year's world aids day. there are good reasons for that. the numbers are clear. aids is becoming more and more a woman's issue, the number of women with hiv/aids is increasing at an alarming rate. who are these women? are those women with high-risk behavior, or are those women having too much sex with too many partners? no, not at all. they are usually ordinary, often young women, who are very vulnerable because of their gender. they're often married, they're very often faithful to their partners, and they're mothers of children. it might be interesting to inform the vatican that 88% of hiv-positive ugandan girls and women are married and have had no other partner than the man they live with. these women are vulnerable because of social inequality and lack of access to education and health. also because they don't have their own income and often can't even negotiate their own sexuality. for these women, the abc of prevention - abstinence, being faithful and condoms - is absolutely not enough. the effective fight against aids requires more than just abc. we need the whole alphabet. i would like to start by adding the letter m to microbicides and the letter v to vaccines, because this opens up promising prospects for women, who may then finally be able to control their own prevention. i think it is very important that the european union should invest more in research and development on these new products. the fight against aids is simply impossible without strengthening women's rights and combating violence against women. i therefore look forward with great anticipation, mr commissioner, to the overall action plan which the commission will present to us in the spring of 2005, because a global approach is indeed what we need. it is not enough, of course, that well-meaning commissioners like yourself or commissioner michel are involved in the fight against aids. it must also be the business of the commissioners for equal opportunities, foreign trade, justice and, of course, the budgetary commissioner. i hope that the european union will continue to take the lead in mobilising more financial resources for the fight against hiv/aids, but also in improving cooperation between member states on the basis of a coherent multiannual plan. i regret that the dutch presidency is not here, because i would like to pay tribute to the courageous way in which the dutch presidency has raised this issue. i also think that europe should do more to increase financial commitments. we must, i think, be able to triple our financial commitments by 2008. then one last word. it seems to me that the essential element in the preparation of such a global plan is the personal involvement of women. women and girls living with hiv/aids in particular, because they are not only victims of hiv/aids, but also indispensable partners in the development of good policies. i therefore hope that the european commission will include them in its stakeholder platform for the preparation of that global plan.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i realize that this problem pales a little in comparison with what has been discussed in this chamber this afternoon. nevertheless, i think that developments in football also have very important social consequences. i am very glad that despite the late hour it is still possible to have a debate on this today. the future of our football depends on the quality of our youth training, you will agree. if those farmers back down or stop, they'll undermine the whole game itself. that seems like a nightmare that prophets of doom have in store for us, but unfortunately the realization of that scenario is much closer than the modal football fan thinks possible. the situation, commissioner, is serious. the flow of youth players to the first team is static, as their places are increasingly taken by often cheaper players from outside the european union or even from within the european union. this leads to bizarre situations, such as the belgian first-class club sk beveren, which usually enters the highest belgian football league with eleven africans. this situation is detrimental to the social function of our football. i am sure you will agree with me that football is an ideal instrument for social integration and against social exclusion. i am particularly sorry that this very function of football is being undermined in various european leagues at the moment - not only in belgium but elsewhere in europe. that's a double shame in these times. this development is also detrimental to the team's competitiveness. we shall perhaps have more on that in the debate later. there are a number of concrete proposals to reverse this trend and put a stop to it. the proposal for a regulation requires clubs to recruit a minimum number of players who have been trained by their club or in the league in which the club plays. i think that such a measure would be a great stimulus to the youth activities of the clubs. moreover, it would be morally preferable for us to invest much more in the training of clubs than in buying and trading players as mere commodities. that is why i am asking the commissioner specifically whether he thinks this is a good proposal. do you agree, commissioner, that it is desirable for the public authorities - and i mean the national and european authorities - to invest in the youth activities and sports facilities of the clubs? finally, commissioner, do you also think that it is necessary to defend the social system of football?
, on behalf of the group of the european people's party. president, ladies and gentlemen, members of the court of auditors, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate mr fabra vallés on his future career. we've always worked together quite well, and i wanted to say that here. i would also like to welcome mr kallas. it is, i believe, his first debate in the plenary and i would like to give him a little credit, a little encouragement. i am very glad that mr kallas has taken note of the letter from the committee on budgetary control and individual members, such as mr bonde and mr van buitenen, and is going to ask for a delay in the resignation of mrs martha andreasen, to allow a hearing and to see whether the resignation is really necessary. i have listened to your contribution with interest, mr fabra vallés, and i agree with mr mulder and many other colleagues that the story is the same year after year. there's a lot going wrong. we also noted this after reading the olaf report published last week. i think that there is a problem in the overall follow-up and i would like to ask the court of auditors to specify more precisely which legislation and regulations are encouraging fraud. perhaps the court of auditors should work with parliament to establish a timetable for changing such regulations. the commission should therefore respond to all such questions. i also note once again that the council is not present and i find it shameful that one of the two arms of the budgetary authority does not properly assess and follow the discharge procedure year after year. the documents on discharge which we receive from the council are always shamefully thin and do not really have much to say. i would therefore suggest that in future, when the court of auditors criticises aspects of policy, the council should be asked to respond to the individual committees so that we can work together to make the discharge procedure run more smoothly.
mr president, i should first like to thank my colleague mr eurlings for the quality of his report and, above all, for the quality of his listening. i think that the compromises we have reached, as my group has said and said again, are quite acceptable compromises. but i would still like to ask myself, after listening to these debates, - indeed, mr toubon - what we want for europe. i have heard the best and the worst today and i would now like to say this. we have succeeded in influencing a democratic transformation of turkey, operated by the will of the turkish people, without tanks, without guns and without weapons. and we said, this is a democratic revolution. we have succeeded in spreading the european democratic model through peace. for me, this challenge that we have almost achieved - not quite yet, but almost - was a major challenge and i say that i am proud of this europe, of this europe that has no fear in its belly, of this europe that does not say: 'i reject this culture'. we know there's still a lot of work to be done. we know there's cyprus. we know that we must continue to improve respect for human rights. we know that there is still the kurdish question. we know there's women's issues. we know - and i appeal to my turkish friends on this subject - that there is the problem of the armenian genocide. you'll grow by recognizing these problems, you won't shrink. but i would also like to say that we, who want open, clear negotiations, also want a full partnership for turkey, without restrictive clauses. it is indeed a great country, mr toubon, a great culture, and we would be honoured to integrate it into the european union if it meets the copenhagen criteria, but only the copenhagen criteria.
the possible accession of turkey to the european union in the future places us before a historic responsibility. so let me say it again: turkey is not a european country. it belongs neither geographically, nor politically, nor culturally, nor economically to europe. it is also an islamic country where, as in all islamic countries, other religions are in fact not or hardly tolerated. it is a country which does not meet any of the conditions for accession. the historic responsibility we bear is the responsibility towards the european citizens, who rightly do not want this turkish accession and who should not be forced to accept an undemocratic decision. in addition, our society is already paying a heavy price for the fact that on our continent millions of people of non-european origin sometimes have very difficulty living together with the indigenous population. the accession of turkey, with free movement for 70 and soon 100 million non-muslim, non-european citizens, will increase these problems exponentially and may lead to the worst. we therefore call for a referendum in which the european citizens can vote for or, rather, against this potential turkish accession.
mr president, mr president of the commission, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, my group expects the commission to do as well as its predecessor in foreign and security policy. mrs ferrero-waldner and mr peter mandelson have the difficult task of continuing the policy of chris patten and pascal lamy in the same good terms as before with javier solana. we expect commissioner michel to give a new impetus to the union's development policy. coherence will be essential if the european union is to have the same weight in world politics as it has in the world economy. we expect the commission to prepare and monitor the accessions in the pipeline, including those of turkey, and to pursue an intensive policy towards our new neighbours. those are all pretty classic sighs, but we expect more from you. we expect you to become much more active in the middle east. that you will initiate a mature dialogue with the united states on an equal footing. that you continue to shape africa policy without losing sight of the promotion of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. we also expect the commission to continue the policy of lamy and fischler on world trade. the efforts of the european union are indeed absolutely essential to advance the doha development agenda. finally, and not least, we expect the commission to promote multilateralism, thus contributing to a more balanced and therefore safer world.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97). we have not succeeded in the european parliament, the commission or the council in developing even the beginning of a thorough debate on the frontiers of europe. nevertheless, accession negotiations with turkey, a non-european country with a population of over 80 million at the time of accession, will almost certainly be opened. well, that's some strategic thinking you've got there. how much the membership will cost, we still cannot know. who's gonna pay the bill, we're not even supposed to know. it is also significant that a country like the united kingdom is 100% in favour of turkey's accession, but at the same time refuses to give in to its rebate. the same is true for a number of other net contributors. there is still no serious study on the effect of immigration from turkey. the eu is increasingly alienating its people. it is a pity that we are told that we must bring europe closer to the citizens, but when it comes down to it, nothing happens. the turkish question is a perfect illustration of this. it is a perfect opportunity to ask the citizens for their views, and yet there may not be a referendum in any member state. commissioner louis michel explained why when he was foreign minister in belgium. he said that a referendum on such a subject would open a debate with dirty arguments about islam, among other things, which would only appeal to the right-wing parties. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. this anti-democratic creed is simply baffling. we can at least thank mr michel for his candor. he's said out loud what many of his colleagues are silently thinking. europe has a serious problem of democratic legitimacy, of accountability, and it does not look like that will improve in the near future. - no, it's the opposite.
i am sorry to have left this debate, mr president, but i had a trilogue on unfair trading practices, and that is of course also important. mr president of the commission, you have announced that you and your colleagues will give priority to the socioeconomic aspect of your policy. we, the european people's party, of course support you in this. we all know that the lisbon process requires a catch-up operation and we are very pleased to hear that you want to put that train to lisbon on an express line. we are also asking you, together with mr kok, to work more closely and to coordinate the lisbon process better, both internally and with other objectives. i am thinking here of the employment guidelines, the global economic guidelines and the macroeconomic dialogue. we want to complete the lisbon process because we believe it is necessary to continue living in the future in a social market economy in which efficiency is combined with justice and responsibility is combined with solidarity. we are well aware that one cannot exist without the other. we therefore ask you, mr president of the commission, to come forward with concrete proposals to put pressure on the member states and their regions to do their part in the field of education, training, training, investment in scientific research, but also structural reforms. national lisbon plans, a set of structural indicators, the involvement of national parliaments in monitoring and evaluating the process and certainly a ranking of member states by performance may be tools in this regard. we also ask you very strongly to ensure that the essence of the stability and growth pact is upheld. this is something that has been discussed at length by a number of colleagues in my group. finally, we ask you to work with us to achieve the internal market in services, but in a positive way, a way that is supported by the people and also by civil society. we also expect proposals to improve the business environment, including for small and mediumsized enterprises, which remain the engine of our economic growth. we all know that without growth there are no jobs and without jobs there is no basis for the social security that we all want so much to see protected. mr president, you have a difficult task, made all the more difficult by the fact that the constitution has not yet been adopted and that we do not yet know the financial prospects. in fact, we are asking you to serve us a menu without having the kitchen to prepare it and without knowing what the available budget is. however, we are counting on your creativity and the cohesion of your team. if you propose a firm policy, if you come out with a firm menu in january, you will find in the epp a lasting ally.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of a genuine european area of freedom, security and justice is clearly one of the fundamental political priorities of the european union and a major concern of all european citizens. that is why i would first of all like to thank my colleagues on the committee on budgets, and in particular our general rapporteur, mr garriga polledo, for having supported and put to the vote in this house most of the amendments which were tabled by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. several of these are aimed in particular at strengthening the european union's means of action in the fight against terrorism. this includes the increase in eurojust's operational appropriations. the budget also includes a pilot project to improve the coordination of means and activities to prevent and combat terrorist threats at union level. we also proposed that the means be strengthened to show solidarity with the victims of terrorist acts by all europeans. among the other priorities, i would like to emphasize again two of them, which are of particular significance to us. we propose, commissioner, that the bulk of the appropriations requested be reserved for the line on passenger rights. the dispute between parliament and the commission in this respect is well known, concerning the level of protection of personal data which airlines must provide to the us customs authorities. if we vote for the proposed amendment, the appropriations will remain blocked until the commission has proposed, as it has repeatedly promised and as parliament has called for, an active rather than passive system of data transmission. secondly, and i am addressing myself more specifically to the president-in-office of the council, we propose to reserve all the appropriations for the agency for the management of the external borders. to be operational and effective, mr president, this agency needs to have a seat and that seat must be permanent. we ask the council to fix this seat as a matter of urgency and preferably before the end of this year. mr president, you have already solved many problems, and i think you are in a position to solve this one before you leave office. thank you in advance.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. perhaps the best contribution to democracy is to remain objective, even when you disagree. i shall try to stick to that, because the committee on transport and tourism did not agree with all the proposals. he's got two accents. firstly, with regard to the transeuropean networks, where we wanted to at least make a mark in the context of enlargement. the commitment appropriations were increased. i think that is a positive sign, because expenditure must be commensurate with the projects. the second was the agencies. the situation there is much more difficult in our eyes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but when it comes to providing the necessary resources, this is not always the case. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do not want to go into the technical details here. the second is very important. we are naturally pleased that, in combating marine pollution, we are finally moving from the zero-point, the pm-point, which was envisaged and proposed by the council, to some means of making it clear to the outside world that we now have the means to intervene, after having the political will. the future will show whether the 17 million euros will be enough, although we have proposed well over 20 million. this applies to rail and air transport too. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the committee on transport and tourism has therefore warned us not to wait for the next disaster until the means are adapted to the realities.
commission madam president, the european commission is of course deeply concerned about the many human rights violations, including the mass rapes, which are taking place in the democratic republic of congo as a result of a long period of conflict. the commission has made support for the health sector and institutional support for democratic transition part of its 2003-07 cooperation strategy with the democratic republic of congo. these supports respond in a differentiated and complementary way to the problem of mass rapes in the country. community cooperation has a long experience in the health sector, thanks to the support programmes carried out since 1992 for an amount of eur 70 million. these programmes promote access to basic health care and the provision of medicines at prices adapted to the situation on the ground. a new health support programme, worth around €70 million, will be set up to consolidate the achievements of previous programmes and expand activities to other areas of health. in its 2005 global plan, echo confirms its support for areas with high incidence of sexual violence, in particular in both kivu and maniema. projects aimed at restoring the rule of law and promoting women's rights are also funded by the european initiative for democracy and human rights. the commission also plays a very active role in providing institutional support. since the beginning of the year, it has supported the action of the bunia high court, which is in ituri and which has jurisdiction to deal with rape cases. the aim of this support is to combat impunity and to bring peace to the region. more structurally, the commission is setting up a partnership and support mechanism for the congolese government to reform the justice system. this will eventually enable national courts to deal effectively with rape complaints. finally, the envelope b to which the honourable member refers in his question is being used to the tune of some eur 27 million for emergency rehabilitation measures in the eastern provinces of the congo which are the most affected by the conflict and, therefore, by human rights violations.
i thank the commissioner for his detailed reply. still, i feel like this whole thing is a little mop-up with the faucet open. a few weeks ago the presidents of rwanda and the democratic republic of congo signed a new peace agreement, and a few days later it was hommeles again. my own sources in that country, a number of priests, have informed me of many mass rapes. again, thousands to tens of thousands of women have been raped. the commission is indeed financing a programme in this area, but should we not look at the real sources of the conflict? we all know that the big stakes there are the underground treasures: diamond, coltan, gold. i know. is the commission not to take action in this area, together with the council and the presidency? this has been going on for years now. i really believe, commissioner, that everyone expects you, with your personal commitment and your personal knowledge of the region, to be able to act there with your colleague ferrero-waldner in a somewhat stronger and more effective way. i would like to hear your comments on that, commissioner.
commission mr president, mr rapporteur, the new drugs strategy 2005-2012 which will be endorsed by the european council is, as you know, the first to be based on the enlarged union. it is based on the evaluation of the previous strategy which the commission already carried out in october. the european approach, which advocates a balance between supply and demand reduction measures, thus covers 25 countries. the need to strengthen coordination at union level and to make the union's efforts more visible in third countries is clearly stated. the major objectives of the strategy will be translated into concrete actions in the two successive four-year action plans which will be proposed by the commission, as you know, at the beginning of 2005 and at the beginning of 2009 respectively. the commission plans to adopt its proposal for an action plan in february 2005. it considers that parliament's contribution in a field such as drugs is essential to bring european policy closer to its citizens. in other words, we need a shared european political strategy. the commission, i can assure you, will maintain a full commitment to this.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i can tell you that the draft recommendation we are discussing today cannot count on the support of the epp-ed group, because it does not address the major challenges that the future eu drugs strategy should address. the recent figures on drug use among young people are alarming. more and more young people are experimenting with mainly soft drugs at an increasingly young age. moreover, these drugs are becoming more accessible as they become cheaper. i therefore think that the minimization of the problem, as the rapporteur does in his report, is clearly not appropriate in this situation. on the contrary, the situation calls for a thorough and comprehensive approach with only one objective in mind: reducing drug use and all its negative side effects. the evaluation report of the european commission and the annual report of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction show that there is still a lot of work to be done, including at european level. european policy should add value to the differentiated approach in the various member states. as the commissioner said, in the field of coordination, information, scientific research and tackling crossborder drug trafficking and the crime that goes with it. in order to implement such a policy, we believe that a separate budget line should be created to support new initiatives and to encourage the exchange of positive experience between the different member states. this report contains none of that. on the contrary, the report is incoherent and full of contradictions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. repression would not have any good sides and all the actions of the past have not borne fruit. moreover, the report already makes choices. finally, mr president, this week the european council is setting the strategy and parliament is ...
president, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that some members of the european people's party have today called for a secret ballot on the eurlings report speaks volumes about the shameless way in which the supporters of turkey's accession to the eu - i am thinking first of all of the governments of the member states in london, berlin, rome, but also of the belgian government in brussels - are slavishly carrying out the washington agenda and pressuring members of parliament and politicians to push through a decision against the will of the vast majority of the population which will have dramatic historical and social consequences for europe. indeed, many epp members want to vote against the eurlings report because they are categorically against turkish accession, but they dare to do so only if no one sees how they will vote. but they will not do so, for fear of possible criticism and all the consequences for their careers in their own country, where their government, arrogantly dismissing the opinion of the people, wants to give ankara the green light the day after tomorrow, if the vote is open and not secret. the same may be true of a number of members of the socialist group. i am reminded of the courageous statements in the dossier on turkey in france by robert badinter, hubert védrine and the former socialist minister of education, claude allègre, who all warned of the disastrous consequences of a possible turkish accession. it is indicative of the lack of democratic openness with which this matter has been dealt with for years. in helsinki, according to someone who, like the former european commissioner for the internal market, frits bolkestein, was the only one who had the courage to tell romano prodi that he refused to accept the commission's positive recommendation of 6 october last, there was only a three-minute discussion on whether turkey should be granted candidate status. three minutes, ladies and gentlemen, to decide whether we shall transfer the conflicts of the caucasus and the middle east to the frontiers of europe. three minutes to decide whether we will allow millions of immigrants to flood our continent again tomorrow. three minutes to decide whether we are going to allow a country which has human rights in general and women's rights in particular to be violated on a large scale as a so-called exemplary secular state into our union and immediately give it the largest voting weight in the council. three minutes to give the green light to a country which refuses to recognise another member state and occupies part of that member state with 30,000 troops after committing unspeakable crimes against humanity. three minutes to give the green light to a country where the state's denial of the armenian genocide is organized by the ministry of education, while no one in europe is talking about it. europe, where are your great principles?
president. - in le monde of 8 december, mr erdogan, the turkish prime minister, said that if the eu is not a christian club, an islamic country like turkey should be able to join. the point is that europe must give up its identity, or at least a large part of it, while turkey can remain an islamic club. a few days later, erdogan warned european leaders in the times that violence by islamic extremists could escalate if europe rejects turkey as a candidate member state. since erdogan himself is from that area, we can consider this a direct threat, a direct blackmail. we as a european parliament no longer even have the self-respect to oppose such blackmail. how can we reject the candidacies of, say, morocco in the future if we are going to accept a non-european country like turkey into the union? the people are being lied to, turkey is supposed to be judged by the copenhagen criteria, but that does not appear to be the case. it is not a problem that turkey is subject to torture on a large scale, that turkey is occupying a part of the territory of an existing member state militarily, and that it is even refusing to recognise that state. i can only say that we as a european parliament have become too cowardly to defend our own interests as europeans.
in writing. our europe is an open europe, based on european public culture, which is the result of our common values and standards. this 'unity in diversity' is europe's most important characteristic and its greatest asset. the consequence of such a political project is that there are limits to it. the further enlargement of the union cannot and must not stand in the way of further deepening. turkey's accession threatens to reduce the union to a mere economic association, unable to exercise important supranational powers in a coordinated manner. a union without strength and soul, paralysed by internal contradictions. this is not the story that many of you have worked for and dreamed of. it is certainly true that turkey has come a long way in recent years. these reforms and deepening economic cooperation must be pursued. the european union is also committed to the development of the kurdish people, and to the peace process in the region. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
in writing. yes, i supported the opening of accession negotiations with turkey for one reason, among many others: i want a better world for tomorrow, made of stability and security. no one can predict the future, but i know one thing: sharing this space of peace and democracy on which our union is founded is a unique opportunity that we cannot afford to pass up. yes, we must stand firm in the name of historical truth, which is why i continue, as in the past, to demand that the turkish authorities acknowledge their role in the armenian genocide. it is a truth, a history in the name of which we must also remember that for 50 years turkey has played a vital role as a loyal ally at the gates of europe. to stand firm is to send a strong message: marriage will only happen with further significant progress in respect for minorities, gender equality. and i am glad that the european parliament supported my amendment on zero tolerance for honour killings in paragraph 26. yes, i am asking for the people to be involved in the final decision: referendum or consultations... (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 163)
in writing. i have supported the eurlings report and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work. i am saying this publicly, because the regrettable secrecy has not allowed us to make this clear in any other way. my vote for the motion for a resolution does not mean that i am impatient to see the negotiations begin. my party rightly feels that it is too early, and i share that view. at the same time, however, we want to be realistic, because the train was already on the track in 1999 and 2002. we also expect the european council to give the green light for negotiations. we want to vote in favour of the union's credibility and to send a clear signal about the conditions under which these negotiations, which are open-ended, must take place. the conditions in the report are strict but fair. we fully support it, and that is why i voted for it.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mr moscovici on his excellent report, which is, as he said, both honest and lucid and which does not ignore the shortcomings and defects that we can all still see in romania, such as those concerning the very imperfect freedom of the press - and i am speaking with caution - the delays in the independent functioning of the judicial and police systems and the corruption that is still far too frequent. my dear colleagues, i started my professional career as a language teacher and when i was proofreading exams or homework, i found that as i continued to correct, i became more and more severe and that for the last homework i was much more severe than for the first. so much so that i would take back the first ones to make sure i was fair enough. i am not sure that the commission is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets, but i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. does this mean that there are no problems? of course you didn't. i have reminded them, the rapporteur has clearly indicated where they are and that considerable improvements are essential. ladies and gentlemen, i know romania quite well and i have had the opportunity on several occasions to urge romanian officials from all political groups to be diligent in making progress and in implementing the reforms and the legislative and regulatory transpositions. like the majority of my group, i shall vote in favour of the recommendations of the moscovici report. i will do so not only out of sympathy for romania, where i have many excellent friends and excellent friends, but because i have been able to appreciate fully the distance already covered after visiting the country as early as february 1990 and seeing the still fresh traces of the violence of the end of the previous year. we owe our friends understanding, sympathy, but not soft and almost indifferent indulgence. that has always been my attitude towards romania and it remains my attitude today. my positive attitude remains basically a vigilantly sympathetic attitude. i hope that our parliament will do the same.
in writing. it is unacceptable that in the same budget line there should be two separate funds, such as the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the end of fascism and the pope's visit to cologne. i dare hope that this strange collusion is not the fruit of some shameful bargain. the gathering of young people that this latter event would attract should not be financed by the european budget, but by the catholic church, whose promotion it serves. i therefore vote against this expenditure, whereas so many other spontaneous initiatives by young people fail to benefit from european funds. requests to make explanations of vote must be made before the start of the first
