mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i am pleased that today i have the right to speak for the first time in this parliament, the european parliament, and to refer to a subject which i have dealt with, the constitution of europe. i was a member of the constituent assembly and i know that this constitution is the result of a consensus of representatives of states, parliaments and civil society. it is not a literary marvel, as many would have liked it to be, that the assembly has produced. but it is a sui generis text which promotes the cohesion and unity of europe. it promotes the principles and values of europe and it promotes the vision of jean monnet and the man we honoured today, altiero spinelli. the european parliament has been a great help to the european cause, and i think that those who oppose the adoption of the constitution are doing a disservice to the european cause because, by seeking the best, they are undermining the good. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear indication of the extent to which the european parliament is prepared to support the commission's proposals.
mr president, i just want to clarify that the bomb attack against mr anastasiadis was not carried out for political motives but because of comments he made after a football game.
mr president, the debates of the day are rather celebratory in nature. i would like to point out, however, that for us the enlargement of a united europe, beyond its historical, political and economic significance, is also a great challenge for a europe without divisions and without exclusion. the european union's current economic and social choices, unfortunately, widen the social divide rather than bridge it. the european union as a whole needs to look at how the new member states are supported in order to make real progress in convergence, both economically and socially, and in safeguarding the rights of citizens. but the enlargement is continuing. the prospect of bulgaria and romania joining the union in the coming years is positive insofar as it is not based merely on the satisfaction of certain indicators but on the real improvement of the lives of the citizens of these countries. as regards turkey, i believe that the enlargement and consolidation of the european union's relations with that country is a positive development for the country itself and its democratization, as well as for peace and stability in the region. the european union is not a party to the cyprus agreement, but it is a party to the cyprus agreement. we believe that cyprus can and should be used as a bridge between the european union and the eastern mediterranean and, in particular, the middle east. we could certainly play this role much more effectively if our accession to the european union on 1 may were to take place with the cyprus problem solved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must interpret the result of the referendum correctly. in our view, at least, the greek cypriot community's 'no' to the referendum does not reject either the solution for the reunification of cyprus or, if you will, the un secretary-general's own plan. it is an expression of insecurity, it is an expression of concern about the viability of the solution and it is to this direction that we would like the european parliament to turn its attention, contributing positively to the shaping of those conditions which will lead to the support by the overwhelming majority of both greek and turkish cypriots for the reunification of the island within a federation.
mr president, as a representative from cyprus, i will attempt to dispel a few myths. firstly, the greek cypriots did not vote against peace and the reunification of the island in the recent referendum. they voted against a particular plan which would not have brought peace or reunification to the island. the plan legalises the turkish invasion of cyprus. the plan also stipulates that turkish troops of occupation will remain in cyprus forever and that turkey – an invader of cyprus – will be a guarantor of the independence of cyprus. this means that a member state of the european union will be under the guardianship of turkey. this is the main reason why greek cypriots did not vote for this plan. there is only one way that cyprus can be reunified and peace restored: the turkish troops of occupation must be withdrawn from cyprus.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank all those who contributed to the accession of the republic of cyprus to the european union and to say that cyprus, which fought great battles and struggles for freedom, justice and above all for solidarity between peoples, is becoming a member of the european union, which has as its principles and objectives the above. cyprus has much to gain from the european union, but at the same time, in both directions, it can give a lot to the european union, with its contribution and the role it has to play with its culture, culture and geopolitical position, which can be the bridge between the european union and the middle east. our accession to the european union is the achievement of one of the great goals we have set ourselves, but for us this does not mean that we will rest. the next objective is to resolve the cyprus problem, an objective which, unfortunately, we were not able to achieve before accession. we'll make every effort to get to him as quickly as possible. our desire is the reunification of our country! the democratic decision of the greek cypriots does not mean a desire not to solve our problem. the result of the referendum was a reaction to this plan. as regards the so-called 'embargo' mentioned earlier on turkish cypriots, which on the greek cypriot side has never existed, we believe that our turkish cypriot compatriots, who are for us equally european citizens, with all the rights that come with cyprus's membership of the european union, should certainly be given economic support. the cypriot government has also demonstrated this, with support measures announced by itself a year ago and recently at the foreign ministers' council in luxembourg. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our aim is to resolve the cyprus problem as quickly as possible, so that the entire cypriot people, greek cypriots and turkish cypriots, can once again celebrate together the accession of a united cyprus to the european union and the unification of our country.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to convey the grateful thanks of the entire political world, as the representative of cyprus and the republic of cyprus, but also of the entire people, for your positive contribution to making my own country part of the enlarged europe! we assure you today that we will reciprocate by our positive contribution and our consistency in what is called a 'europe of all peoples', a 'strong, powerful europe, a europe of prosperity, security and stability'. cyprus is now the south-easternmost point of the european union and the crossroads of three continents. cyprus has a role to play for the european union and can be the gateway to these three continents, but at the same time a point of peace, stability and prosperity for the whole region. the people of cyprus believed in european values and the european vision, they believed in everything that governs the european union today, and one important reason why they took this decision, which was not a decision not to solve the cyprus problem, was because principles and values relating to the guarantee and security of the island could not create this feeling in the people themselves. and they could not create this feeling, if you think, and you have to understand us, that our people, in their entire historical course, for only fourteen years, from 1960 to 1974, were without occupying armies, without foreign troops, without being invaded and human rights violated. for europe, i believe today that cyprus can be a great positive challenge, a positive challenge where it can prove and disprove all those who think it is only a trade and economic union, by proving that it is also a political union. and today i convey to you the strong will of our people to achieve a solution to our problem, where equal rights apply to greek cypriots and turkish cypriots, and i assure you of this. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
president of the commission. it is not a problem for a commissioner to deal with: the whole commission must be involved in this because it is part of the fundamental definition of europe. this is a union of peoples and nations. these basic definitions should not be the responsibility of a single commissioner but the responsibility of the whole commission and the whole parliament, because it is on this basis that we define the future - i repeat - of our union of peoples and nations.
mr president, health is a much treasured gift and one of the most important concerns of every citizen of the european union. unfortunately great inequalities in standards of public health and healthcare provision exist between the different member states. it is my strong belief that a sick child in cyprus or in poland should have exactly the same standard of treatment as one in germany or france. would the commissioner responsible for public health confirm to us today that every effort will be made to implement an effective strategic plan to ensure that european citizens are made equal in the fight against disease and that no borders exist in the treatment of disease in the european union?
mr president, i would like to express my regret and concern about the new operations of the israeli army. the result is once again tragic, with dozens of palestinians, mostly civilians and children, killed or injured. it really saddens me that, despite the worldwide outcry, the government of israel continues this undeclared war and bloodshed. what is being done in front of the eyes of the whole world is a crime against humanity. the european parliament should also call on the israeli government to immediately end the attacks and killings of civilians in the gaza strip, to stop building the wall, the sole purpose of which is to isolate the palestinians, to stop demolishing houses and to comply with the decisions of the international court of human rights and the geneva convention. we must also condemn in the strongest terms the rocket attacks and the bombings in egypt last week, which have resulted in the deaths of several israeli and egyptian civilians, because they do nothing to help the peace process. we must also call on both sides to proceed with the implementation of the road map. finally, on behalf of my group, i would like to express our full support for the palestinian people, who continue to resist and fight for their independence, and for the israeli peacekeepers who are mobilizing to put an end to the bloodshed.
mr president, doping is the cancer of modern sports. it invades, spreads and destroys the healthy spirit of competition and fair play amongst our athletes. despite the brave efforts made by the world anti-doping agency, its incidence appears to be growing faster and faster, especially amongst professional sportsmen. as the number and sensitivity of drug-screening tests increases, athletes discover new, undetectable drugs or combinations of drugs, or other ways of avoiding being caught. faced with this malignant state of affairs we must seek to discover the root cause of the problem. we do not have to look very far or think very hard to find it. it is the same root cause that so often turns individuals into criminals. the same one that often leads people to kill each other and, sometimes, even causes whole nations to fight one another. it is called money. as sport becomes more and more competitive, there are ever more material gains to be made by winning. competition is often not about winning an event or a game, but about winning the sometimes unbelievably lucrative contracts that come with that. the crucial question is whether we can convince our athletes to dissociate sport from money. in my view the answer is unfortunately ‘no’, because athletes are only human and greed seems to be an inherent human weakness. in conclusion, i disagree with the commissioner that this is a public health problem. in my view it is mainly a socio-economic problem. sadly, i consider that the only way to keep drugs away from sportsmen is to decommercialise sport. while the chance of that remains remote, the prospect of truly drug-free sport remains bleak.
mr president, in reply to mr staes' written question last january on the adoption of anti-doping measures, the commission said that there was no provision for harmonization in this particular area of sport. but doping has become a worldwide scourge. those who watched the athens olympics understood this in the best possible way. the goal of achieving great records and distinctions is no longer just for athletes but for a global industry that has grown up around sports. the financial interests of the big multinationals, the corporate sponsors that support professional sports, are only served when the performance of the athletes is very high. the result is a social model in which doping spreads to amateur athletes and especially young people. it is unacceptable, for example, that doping substances directly harmful to health are made available in gyms. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union does not become a victim of the drug trade, and that the european union does not become a victim of the drug trade. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, high-intensity naval sonar is a form of under-water radar system used mainly for the detection of submarines. instead of the electromagnetic energy waves used by surface radar, it employs acoustic energy waves with which it scans the water of the oceans. these acoustic waves are, in simple terms, very loud noises which travel over many hundreds of kilometres and, in the areas used, completely fill every cubic inch of ocean water without any geographical limitation. sometimes they are so loud that they can even be heard outside the water by people standing at nearby shores. it is not surprising that such high-energy noise bombardment causes severe disruption to marine life. this disruption is especially extensive to animals that by nature have very sensitive acoustic capabilities, such as whales and dolphins. what a whale hears and feels when sonar is used is the equivalent of what we would hear and feel if four jumbo jet engines were operating at full blast in this room. the scientific evidence gathered mainly from necropsies on stranded whales is becoming increasingly stronger and more enlightening and it is convincing to most scientists, and it certainly satisfies our precautionary principle. apart from direct injury to internal organs such as the inner ear apparatus, the sonar waves cause the animals to panic and in terror to move uncontrollably and haphazardly, trying desperately to escape from the painful and disorientating sonar noise. in so doing, they may rise very quickly from deep waters, thus suffering a form of fatal decompression sickness and/or they may be stranded on nearby beaches where they meet their demise. it should be noted that for every animal stranded, many hundreds more are killed or severely injured but we never get to know about them because they never reach the shores. it should also be noted that dying from the effects of sonar injury is an extremely painful, agonising and slow form of death. it is imperative that the motion for a resolution which has been submitted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety calling for the restriction of the use of these sonars be passed urgently and unchanged in substance. the amendment proposing the restriction of the use of sonars in geographically non-sensitive marine habitats, if accepted, will severely weaken this resolution and render it largely ineffective. (applause)
mr president, on the question of aid to the turkish cypriot community, which has been suffering for some time, we want the matter to be settled smoothly without any further problems. i should like to point out, mr president, that parliament's committee on budgets has decided - quite rightly - that the money will be given to the turkish cypriot community from item 3, that is to say from the item on aid to the member states of the european union. i am now informed that the european commission has made a recommendation to give this money from heading 7, that is to say from the heading concerning the pre-accession grant... (the president interrupts the speaker)
on behalf of the team. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, akel and the group of the european united left have never had the economic isolation and the hardship of our turkish cypriot compatriots as their aim. the deeper causes of this isolation are not the alleged embargo of the greek cypriot side, but the turkish occupation, the separatist actions of the occupying regime, and the full interconnection of the occupied economy with the turkish economy, including even the introduction of the turkish lira as currency in the occupied areas. after the turkish invasion and occupation of 1974, the republic of cyprus declared its occupied ports and airports closed. after he couldn't exert any control over them. this was also an act of self-defense, so that we would not be led to identify the pseudo-state. resolutions 541 and 550 of the security council and a number of judgments of the european court of human rights have fully confirmed the correctness of the above decision. the same was true of the recent opinion of the council's legal service, which expressly recognises the right of the republic of cyprus to keep these ports and airports closed. our group supports the financial regulation for turkish cypriots, provided, of course, that the republic of cyprus is respected and that it does not provide any benefits or political advantages to the occupying power. we hope that understanding and a broad consensus have been reached on these issues. as regards the text under discussion on the european agency for construction, it is surprising to acel that it is before us today for a vote, at a time when there is no agreement at coreper, commission or council level. i would remind you of the opinion of coreper that the matter would be discussed during the next presidency, that of luxembourg. it is precisely because the republic of cyprus is not a third country and the occupied territories are not independent territories but, as expressly provided for in the accession treaty, territories of the european union in which the application of the social acquis has been suspended, that the acp cannot vote against the regulation on the european agency for construction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, we are asked to vote on the protocol without specifying from which budget this money will be raised. it has been said that the question will be resolved depending on where the funds are. but there are no funds available for internal aid.
mr president, until 1974 the city of famagusta was the centre of economic, social and cultural prosperity for both greek and turkish cypriots. since the turkish invasion 30 years ago, the city has remained sealed off by turkish troops and inaccessible to its local inhabitants. it has gradually become a ghost city, with empty streets and derelict buildings. amendment 11 aims to help bring this dead city back to life for the benefit of the many thousands of local inhabitants. the resurrection of the city of famagusta will also act as a catalyst for the establishment of better and closer relations between the two communities in cyprus, thus greatly increasing the chances of a speedy, peaceful reunification settlement.
mr president, the message that should go out from this debate is that not only parliament but also the greek cypriot members wish for the economic development of the turkish cypriot community through economic assistance and unhindered trade around the world. we are satisfied that the rapporteur has introduced a vital amendment, making sure that eu money will not be used in a way that impinges upon individual property rights according to the relevant decisions of the european court of human rights. i also welcome the fact that the council appears ready to reach a consensus on the regulation. i stress the importance of consensus on the issue of trade, without time constraints and on a correct legal basis, as advised by the legal department of the council. what is needed is creativity and adherence to the international legal status of the republic of cyprus, a member state of the union. i have perceived during this debate that certain colleagues, in their bona fide efforts to help the turkish cypriot community, underestimate the importance of the message that the greek cypriots are also in favour of economic development for turkish cypriots. this is not a 'zero-sum' game. following the last referendum, and with all due respect to the decision of the sovereign people, neither turkey nor cyprus is discharged from its responsibilities to continue searching constructively for a mutually agreed solution. the messages coming from this debate build bridges between the two communities and do not create unnecessary disputes and confrontation between them, and due attention should be paid to them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we on the greek cypriot side are in favour of economic support and strengthening of the turkish cypriots. they're our countrymen. the government of the republic of cyprus has from the outset supported the decision to provide financial support to the turkish cypriots. i must point out, however, that the economic misery of our countrymen is not due to our isolation but to the isolation imposed by turkey's 30-year military occupation of cyprus. i must say that this action is incidental and the main objective of the european union should be to resolve the cyprus problem, to bring about full equality, political and otherwise, between the greek cypriot and turkish cypriot citizens in all areas. that is our objective. now, as for the annan plan, which many have idolized. this was rejected by the majority of greek cypriots because first of all it perpetuated the turkish occupation, the turkish military presence in cyprus. secondly, it created a climate of uncertainty about the future and, thirdly, it had shortcomings in the area of human rights and in its functioning. let us not forget this, and those who criticize the greek cypriot side for its attitude, why have they not criticized for 30 years and are they not criticizing now for what turkey is doing in cyprus? the turkish occupation, the expulsion of the greek cypriots from their homes and the continuation of this situation. the same sensitivity must be displayed. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. we have no differences with the turkish cypriots, we have differences with turkey, which occupies part of the territory of the republic of cyprus, part of european territory. the republic of cyprus is a full member of the european union.
mr president, i would like to stress that the greek cypriots support economic support for the turkish cypriots and that we are seeking to see the living standards of the turkish cypriots raised to our own as soon as possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. and that is the issue i am addressing. and i've been a protagonist of this effort for many years, not now. the commission's report, mr patten, therefore deeply offends my intelligence when it appears that it does not understand where this aid will come from. from item 3 concerning countries within the european union or from item 7 concerning pre-accession countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commissioner, however, refuses to see this reality, which is very clear to us, and i regret that he makes this distinction.
in writing. i am voting for the reports by mrs mechtild rothe and anders samuelsen because i believe that the turkish cypriot community in cyprus should be strengthened economically and developmentally with a view to the reunification of the island. but i have to justify my vote because there are certain ambiguities which have already been raised in public. the first ambiguity concerns amendment no 3, article 1 (5) of the samuelsen report, and the other concerns paragraph 5 of the opinion of the committee on budgets annexed to mrs rothe's report. my vote is in favour of the following: firstly, the final decision of the european council will not cast a shadow on or erode the sovereign and other rights of the republic of cyprus, and that aid to the turkish cypriots will not sow divisive weeds but will lead to the reunification of cyprus. secondly, the decision of the committee on budgets of the european parliament states that the financing for the turkish cypriots will be provided by 'line 3', from which the member states draw money, and not by 'line 7' or '4', which concerns the acceding country and external aid.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are opposed to the introduction of biometric data and we believe that they violate fundamental rights which we have taken for granted. they offend human dignity and endanger the safeguarding of important human rights, such as the inviolability of private life or freedom of movement. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. it is important that europe does not get carried away and that it fights for the good of the peoples and the people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the collection, storage, access and transmission of personal data involve enormous risks and amount to acceptance of global policing and excessive controls. i would like to take this opportunity, mr president, to condemn the council's action in adopting these measures before the parliament's proceedings were completed, as well as the arbitrary change in the provision on compulsory biometric data in the passports of european citizens, from a digital photograph only to a photograph and fingerprints. the council has unjustifiably overlooked our role as the voice of the european citizens whom we represent; (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would like to bring to parliament's attention – not for the first time, perhaps – the discrimination against many university students from the 10 new accession states who are studying in the 15 old member states. an example – and i have received complaints from these students – is that 19 medical students currently studying at the royal college of surgeons in dublin, ireland, have been asked to continue to pay non-eu resident fees – many thousands of pounds every year – although cyprus became a member state of the european union on 1 may. this is very unfair, mr president, and i ask you to intervene so that there is no unfair discrimination between university students from the 25 current member states of the european union.
mr president, if the political forces and the people of turkey want to join the european union because they believe that this will help their development and democratization, they have the right to go in that direction. we are ready to support this effort if turkey complies with the criteria, the rules of conduct and the conditions laid down for all the member states of the union. the main issue arising from the copenhagen criteria is respect for the member states of the european union with which turkey is seeking to become a partner. one of the member states is the republic of cyprus, which turkey must respect and recognise in the same way as the other 24 members. it is not possible for turkey to apply to become a member of the european union and not to recognise a member of the union, just as it is not possible for turkey to occupy 37% of the territory of the republic of cyprus, i.e. the territory of a member state of the european union, and at the same time to join that union. if turkey complies with the european union's criteria and rules of conduct, this will be to its own benefit and that of the region, allowing for de-escalation of tensions in the region and the development of good neighbourly relations which will benefit first and foremost the peoples of the countries in the region. the aim of akel and the group of the european united left has never been to isolate and impoverish our turkish cypriot compatriots. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the deeper causes of the isolation of turkish cypriots are not the alleged "embargo" of the greek cypriot side but the turkish occupation and the separatist actions of the occupation regime, as well as the full interconnection of the economy of the occupied with the full economy. after the turkish invasion and occupation of 1974, the republic of cyprus declared its occupied ports and airports as "closed" since it could not exercise any control over them. this was an act of self-defense, so as not to lead to the identification of the pseudo-state. in response to the question of lifting the isolation of the turkish cypriots, the government of the republic of cyprus has proposed the return of the closed part of famagusta to its legal residents and the opening, jointly with the turkish cypriots, of the port of famagusta with a view to its exploitation for the common good, a proposal which has unfortunately not been accepted. we hope, mr president, that turkey will help to open a new page in the history of our region.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr eurlings, on the difficult task he has carried out so effectively. the outcome of turkey's accession procedures to the european union will be known by the decision of the european council of 17 december 2004. the two options, either the blockade or full membership of turkey, are not enough. there must be a third option: the option of a special relationship with turkey. if the council's decision is in favour of a 'yes' vote, internal problems will arise in the european union. if the decision is to be 'no', it could lead to a crisis in turkey's relations with the european union, which must be avoided. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. but turkey, mr president, must not enter the european union with cyprus divided and occupied, without recognising the republic of cyprus. the normalization of relations with the republic of cyprus requires the withdrawal of the settlers and the 40,000 turkish occupying troops from the island and their replacement - why not - by a small european force on the model of bosnia. the most important guarantee for the greek cypriots and turkish cypriots is, of course, the application of the laws and principles of the european union. the solution to the cyprus problem must therefore be purely european and based on full respect for and implementation of the european acquis and, more generally, of the principles on which the european union is founded. in such a situation, mr president, you can be sure that the 82% of the cypriot population - the greek cypriot christians - and the 18% of the turkish cypriot muslims will be the only example of peaceful coexistence, cooperation and progress, and cyprus will become a real bridge of peace and cooperation between the european union and the arab peoples and israel, with whom cyprus has always maintained excellent relations.
mr president, i will not repeat what has been said already but will limit myself to one general point which i feel has not been adequately covered so far, and that is the accession costs. the exact cost of turkey's accession to the eu is unknown. some, including the commission, estimate it to be about eur 20 billion per year. others put the cost much higher. a very rough realistic approximation would be about eur 400-500 billion, i.e. approximately eur 1 000 per european citizen at today's prices. this includes every child born in the european union during the next 15 to 20 years. such a child will owe eur 1 000 as vat towards the cost of turkey's accession. what happens if – as is quite possible – at the end of the day, turkey does not achieve accession? all this money, which could be used to build hundreds of hospitals and schools, would have been totally wasted. in my opinion we must consult our citizens first and have a referendum: let them know the real facts and then take a decision.
mr president, mr eurlings is to be congratulated on his report, which is a product of careful, hard and objective work. for many, for turkey to open negotiations for membership means opportunities – opportunities for further democratisation of the country; opportunities for abolishing torture and other violations of human rights; for respecting the rights of religious and ethnic minorities within turkey and for full respect of the identity rights of sectors of turkish society, the kurds and the alawites. it would mean an opportunity for regional stability by changing attitudes and abandoning aggressive behaviour, so that problems like cyprus and the aegean can be resolved according to the european spirit of settlement of disputes and respect for international law, security council resolutions, the law of the sea, etc. as a cypriot member of this parliament, and in spite of the invasion and continuous occupation of the northern part of my country by turkey, i am prepared to go along with this opportunity and not oppose the opening of negotiations with turkey. at the same time, i expect none of turkey's obligations, and none of the problems, to be minimised, overlooked or swept under the carpet. there are enormous problems for turkey to overcome and important obligations to fulfil. the eu must demand that turkey acknowledge the armenian genocide if historians are to be able to close this chapter of shame in the history of mankind. nobody can turn a blind eye to the continuous military occupation of part of the territory of cyprus. turkey's obligation in the search for a settlement in cyprus does not end with the referendum of last april. it has an obligation to ensure the gradual withdrawal of its troops and bring an immediate end to the creation of new faits accomplis in relation to private properties. it also has an obligation to recognise all 25 member states, including the republic of cyprus, when negotiating with them.
mr president, mr eurlings had a very difficult job to do. try to square the circle! the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the report also states that the european union has to take action to ensure that the turkish economy is not left behind. paragraph 7 (a) (3) of those criteria is clear: turkey has shortcomings in democracy, human rights, respect for minority rights and many other areas. at the same time, as regards the helsinki conclusions, turkey is violating the spirit and the letter of paragraph 4, as it is currently in a constant state of friction with greece, it is violating airspace constantly and daily and, above all, it is still occupying part of european territory, part of the republic of cyprus, and it is still saying that it does not recognize the republic of cyprus. it is a matter of self-respect for the european union to say that it will cooperate with a state which does not recognize one of its members. it is something that europe must tackle decisively and forcefully. we, as cypriots, are not against the europeanisation of turkey. we want a neighbour who is aligned with european values and we hope - and we believe - that through this process today turkey will eventually move towards european values and adopt european values. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
commission. mr president, mrs lambert's report sets the two communications in the framework of achieving a common european asylum system. in the asylum chapter of the hague programme the objective of a common european asylum system is fully confirmed and an ambitious deadline of 2010 is set for the realisation of that goal. the commission will ensure that the deadline is met and that the european parliament will play a key role in that task. as of spring 2005 the european parliament will be a co-legislator in the process necessary to bring this about. the hague programme also reflects the fact that the external dimension of asylum is being recognised as increasingly important in the eu. the improvement of the global protection system is something that can benefit refugees the world over and can help to better share out the responsibilities for refugees with those countries that accommodate the greater part of the refugee population. that is also in the eu's interest. i am grateful to the rapporteur for recognising the importance of this work and the financial implications involved. the full support of the european parliament is required. the durable solutions communication explores how the eu can enhance protection capacities in regions of origin and also help ensure more orderly and managed entry into the eu of persons in need of international protection through the setting-up of an eu-wide resettlement scheme. refugees should be able to access protection as quickly as possible and as closely as possible to their needs. the emphasis here is on burden sharing rather than burden shifting, on exploring with third countries how we can work together to address a common challenge. these plans must be entirely complementary to, and not a substitute for, member states' obligations under international human rights law, and in particular the 1951 refugee convention and the right to asylum in the european union. the hague programme is clear that the implementation of the second phase of the common european asylum system must be based on a robust evaluation of the impact of the measures taken in member states. our communication indicates a methodology for taking that evaluation forward and for how practical cooperation should be developed. that collaborative and consensus-driven methodology can also be applied to other areas under the asylum and migration acquis. for the longer term we should encourage and promote further cooperation among member states in this field. that is what the commission intends to do.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – mr president, the key to this integrated and comprehensive approach to asylum and migration is the cooperation of third countries, which will be invited to work in partnership and share responsibility with us to ensure that this well thought-out policy succeeds. this cooperation should be sought through existing instruments, including, in particular, the european neighbourhood policy. the eu must not be seen by third countries as – and here you were right, commissioner – trying to shift its own responsibilities from our shoulders to theirs. to this end we must demonstrate, in a visible manner, our readiness to assist these countries in enhancing their protection capacity, to be better prepared to provide urgent assistance to countries in crisis, and to ensure the necessary budgetary means other than those already envisaged as development aid. parallel to third countries, we must be seen to be ready to assume our own responsibilities: the creation of a common european asylum system as called for at tampere, a fully-fledged regional protection programme by december 2005, and a resettlement scheme based on the absorption capacity of individual member states. finally, enhancing protection capacity in creating protected entry procedures does not mean abandoning the existing right of application for asylum on spontaneous arrival in an eu member state. i am firmly of the belief that the more the eu succeeds in enhancing protection capacity in the regions of origin and the more it assists third countries in bringing protection capacity up to standard, the more the protected entry procedures from outside the eu will be enhanced; the fewer spontaneous asylum claims will be presented directly to member states; and the less lucrative the trade of trafficking in human beings will become.
ladies and gentlemen, the conclusions of the european union summit on 16 and 17 december are so important that they will determine to a large extent the face of the european union. the enlargement, with the possible opening of accession negotiations with turkey, requires decisions whose consequences will be decisive. we must make it clear from the outset that we are not against turkey's european perspective. we hope that this perspective will bind any country which follows this perspective to a minimum framework of obligations concerning basic issues which are also valid for the other member states: basic freedoms, civil rights, workers' rights, without of course having any illusions. but these obligations must be set at the outset and accepted by turkey. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. how will the question be answered whether the member states are really equal to each other or whether there are two sides of the same coin? it is in my view essential not only that there should be mutual recognition but also that there should be normalisation of relations between cyprus and turkey, not only because this is what the european union and the principles governing its functioning demand but also because there is a need to resolve the cyprus problem in the interests of the rule of law and for the benefit of our entire people, greek cypriots and turkish cypriots. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. the european union should open a window to safeguard the basic principles of its own existence and demand the application of this minimum framework of obligations, but also open a window to ordinary citizens by showing that it does not decide with two measures and two weights. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to condemn the arrogant behaviour of the turkish leadership and government when their statements give the impression that it is the european union which is asking for turkey's membership and not turkey which is asking for membership of the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr camiel eurlings on turkey's accession to the european union, because it is the product of compromises between the various political groups in the european parliament. however, i am not bound by paragraph 38's statement that the annan plan should also be used as a basis for efforts to resolve the cyprus problem, since this plan has been rejected by 76% of greek cypriots and 67% of all cypriots. a solution as correctly referred to in article 38 can be found on the basis of the principles on which the european union was founded. i also have reservations about the precise content of paragraph 39, which i consider to be inconsistent with the report by mrs mechtild rothe, which was voted on by the european parliament about a month ago. (see rothe report, second amendment, recital 4a (new) (4a) on page 6/15)
