(cs) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to echo what other speakers have already said, that europe is indeed experiencing a historic moment. for the first time in the history of our continent, 25 countries and nationalities are sitting together around the table and are beginning to work together. i would like to thank all those in the commission, in the council and here in parliament who have contributed to this success. this enlargement does not, however, signify the end of the enlargement process in europe. i understand how important it is for the nations of central and eastern europe to have a clear vision, how important it is to have foresight and how important it is to have a plan that these countries and nations can follow. it is for this reason that i welcome the year 2007 for romania and bulgaria, which is a realistic date for these countries. i also welcome what we have heard about croatia, which in the course of recent months and years has made substantial progress in fulfilling the copenhagen criteria, especially the criteria that we have discussed here, such as human and civil rights, political democracy and a functioning market economy. it is very important that these nations and countries have programmes for the future that they are able to follow and that will contribute to the further success of the unified european continent. we should not, however, forget other balkan countries during this process, namely serbia, macedonia, albania and bosnia-herzegovina. while it may take these nations and countries longer than the romanians, bulgarians and croats, i think the doors to the european union should be open for them. in conclusion, i would like to give an answer, if i may, to my fellow member regarding the conduct of new members in the process of establishing the common security and defence policy. i am convinced that these countries will behave responsibly and that they will contribute to the implementation of policies that will enable europe to play its role in the world.
(cs) ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to express my joy at the current enlargement. i wish our community peace, stability, prosperity and a good quality of life. god bless our joint work. i would now like to return to the subject of our debate. the eu changed its neighbours and its external borders overnight. this transformation also represents a challenge to produce a new, well thought out integration project, which will be an extension of the current project, at the end of which europe will be reunited within its geographical and cultural borders. for our new neighbors the prospect of integration represents the same dream as we had ourselves. our joint task is to help these countries to fulfil their dream. i know from the experience of my own country how the prospect of european union membership can be a driving force for carrying out necessary reforms that would otherwise require fierce political determination. the european union is already showing an interest in extending the enlargement process, and new emphasis in the area of common foreign and security policy should reflect this. not only are there new neighbors, but the character of the neighborhood is also changing. information technology, rapid transport systems and trade have given the neighbourhood a new dimension. in this respect, our common interest also concerns the countries of the developing world. we can use the extra energy that was released following the latest enlargement for a new spirit of cooperation with those countries. in order for this cooperation to be successful, we must overcome the divergence of policy tools in the area of external relations and ensure that they are simplified and harmonised. this will make the new neighborhood complete.
(cs) as a former trade unionist i would like to say how happy we are that the social charter has been incorporated into the draft european constitution, given that this was something that i fought for when i was a member of the european trade union confederation executive. i think the fifteen countries should not worry that the ten new countries will prove a financial drain. the majority of accession countries know they will have to look after themselves, as the czech republic has done. if we take the eastern part of germany, into which billions of german marks have been poured, and compare it with the czech republic, we cannot see a great deal of difference.
(cs) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, twenty years ago czechoslovakia was split. the czechs and the slovaks were unable to agree on a joint constitution. fortunately, we parted on good terms, as friends and in peace. i am happy we are meeting as friends and in peace again in the european union and in parliament. czechoslovakia's story can serve as a lesson, particularly for those who are set to negotiate the european constitution. if no agreement is reached on the european constitution within an enlarged europe, this major entity could also break up. let us hope that they take heed of this warning. speaking about the future of our economic and social model, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that we will not be the ones who decide the future. the future will be decided by those who will live in this future, by our children and their children's children. what we can do for them is to create conditions which will enable them to decide freely on their own model, and it is by adopting the european constitution that we will enable them to make their decisions freely. i mention this, because our ancestors decided to surrender their freedom and democracy on the promise of social security. my generation was, therefore, not free to decide which social and economic system it would like to live under. i believe that the future social system will be based on solidarity and love for one's fellow man. let us not forget this is also a christian value, which is not mentioned in the preamble of the draft constitution. i believe that they will be able to decide to go into business. conditions must be right, however, for small businesses to flourish, given that out of small acorns large oaks trees grow. i believe that everything will come right. i believe that the future for our descendants will be as happy as things were for my generation.
(cs) given that we are talking about the issue of security, i shall talk about external security. i am convinced the task that the new member states are facing is to prove their ability to have a wider view. they must show that they do not see european integration merely in terms of structural funds, the importance of which is often overestimated. they must prove that they do not perceive european integration in terms of their own problems. they must prove that they are able to understand and take responsibility for the further development of european integration. when we talk about security, we should bear in mind that our security is influenced by our immediate surroundings, by our neighbouring countries, by north african countries and by the middle east. these are countries with millions of inhabitants who look towards the eu as their goal and where millions of potential illegal immigrants live. these people can easily fall under the influence of fundamentalist and extremist ideology and become themselves tools of terrorism, which is today the number one threat. if the european union wants to ensure the security of its citizens it must, among other things, make its closest neighbours economically and politically stable by increasing their economic growth, reducing the possibility of migration and reducing the growth of radicalism in these societies. the european union must use a new financial framework to re-evaluate its development aid policy, and must use adequate resources to ensure that those resources are used effectively. these are real issues and real problems that must be solved. i am very worried that the abstract intellectual exercises in compiling documents, such as the european constitution, will not help us greatly in solving these problems.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his intensive and hard work on the enlargement of the european union. it will be written down in golden letters in history. we need more cohesion. i would like to ask commissioner barnier's successor whether he is prepared to draw up or create a new and effective cohesion strategy.
ladies and gentlemen, no change can be implemented without constant and open consultation with those affected. our absurd central european experience of power is expressed not only by haska's švejk, but also by robert musil's book, the man without qualities. it was born in the habsburg monarchy, which in some ways was similar to today's european union. here the committee for the seventy years of peaceful reign of emperor franz joseph i was formed. this committee was looking for an idea for a monarchy. war broke out, the emperor died, but the committee kept working. he continued to search for an idea regardless of the opinion of entire nations. the situation has changed in our case too. the old european union no longer exists, the new european union must be much more flexible, more efficient, more open to citizens. i am afraid that the commission has behaved and is behaving exactly as the committee for the celebration of the 70th year of the peaceful reign of emperor franz joseph i. in the words of karl capek about the modern age, that the goal has been replaced by speed. we're dealing with procedures, we're dealing with secondary issues, but we're missing the point. so i'd like to ask our candidate. how will the new european union differ from the old european union? what new forms of public consultation is the commission planning to introduce, and what will your vision of a new europe be, mr barroso?
mr president, mr barroso, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is a great example of a great european union. let me concentrate on just one aspect in my one-minute contribution, and that is social cohesion in an enlarged europe. the elections to the european parliament in the new member states, and in particular the low voter turnout, have shown that there is considerable scepticism in this part of europe about the european union, and often about the european idea. and this skepticism is given by a sense of a certain inequality, a sense of second-class membership. for example, in the case of long transitional periods for the free movement of persons or agricultural subsidies. mr barroso, i would like to hear a clear assurance from you that if you become president of the european commission, you will uphold the principle of equal treatment between old and new members and will work towards the progressive elimination of all inequalities, including social inequalities, in an enlarged europe.
my remarks do not concern the rules of procedure as such, but the situation that arose last night. i have been asked by the head of the czech delegation to the epp/ed group to inform you that three representatives of this group, two of whom are ladies, my colleague from the czech delegation, have not been appointed, have not been registered in any committee. there are three of them. this is mrs. jan hybášková, mrs. nina škottová and mr. richards piks. this is the first time i've seen you. i consider this a scandal and would ask the leaders of all the factions to agree a solution quickly so that we do not have to wait until september or the next month to find a solution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for the report she has presented to us, even though i disagree with her on many points. i have been involved in the debate on belarus on several occasions, previously as a member of the assembly of the council of europe, and i must confess that i have never been discouraged. it is certainly within the powers of the institutions of the european union to express themselves on special or even extraordinary events and situations, and it is therefore natural that they should also pay special attention to belarus. belarus is a country in a special situation. it is one of the youngest states in europe with a political elite with no experience of statehood. it's a country where administrative borders have become national borders, dividing families, economies and cultures. such a state deserves not only special attention but also extraordinary help. one of the worst ways to help in this situation, in my opinion, is to be hypercritical of the government and unconditionally oriented towards the opposition. it's not about overthrowing the government, it's about helping the people of the country. what do we know about the opposition that some of our colleagues are trying to promote to the ruler? wouldn't that make him a worse steward of the land than the current government? and what do we know about the real wishes of the belarusian people? do they want a nationalist government? they want an anti-russian policy? or do they just want more democracy and prosperity in their own country and as close a relationship as possible with a large, rapidly developing neighbor? i don't think we know. we are a congregation that is just beginning to get used to its duties and responsibilities in the current structure. the worst place to start would be to succumb to ideological prejudice and judge by how our emotions are driven by the mass media. we were not elected to the bench to judge without the other side having a right to defend themselves. we were not elected to scandalize just because we don't like someone because the tv news or the newspaper headline painted them in black. we were not elected to tear europe apart. we are here to create conditions for mutual understanding, i.e. not to isolate, but to conduct a dialogue. i agree with my esteemed friend and colleague bohdan klich. i support the proposal that the european parliament send a delegation to belarus consisting of representatives of all political groups. let her find out what the politicians, the public and the experts think. then we can say what the situation is in belarus and not measure it with a double-meter.
this concludes the debate.
the next item is the legal protection of (industrial) designs.
that concludes the debate.
council. mr president, honourable members of parliament, let me start by saying that the situation in sudan continues to be a matter of grave concern for the international community. reports on atrocities indicate the government of sudan's inability – and possibly unwillingness – to take the required measures. the world is gradually losing its patience with a government that appears reluctant to assume full responsibility for all its citizens. this applies to darfur as well as to the north-south process. the eu remains firmly committed to assisting sudan to return to peace and stability as a matter of urgency. sudan should as soon as possible become a country in which all citizens are free and safe, not dominated by violence and discrimination. the government in khartoum should be a true government for all sudanese and assume full responsibility for the well-being of all its citizens. a stable and democratic sudan is also a requirement for peace and stability in the region as a whole. the continued tensions between ethiopia and eritrea, the problems in somalia, the war in northern uganda and further afield, and the ongoing crisis in the great lakes area are all indications of instability on the african continent. peace in sudan would create promising prospects for peace in the wider region. the eu should be ready to support and engage in the darfur conflict. in this respect, we welcome the active role of the african union in the sudan crisis. as much as is possible and realistic, the ownership of the solution to the darfur crisis should rest with africa itself. therefore, the eu's support and engagement should, in the first instance, be through coordinating its policies with the african union. furthermore, the european union should align and coordinate with other important players, such as the united nations, the united states and other international parties, including the arab league. against this background, the eu's policy on sudan is focused as follows. first of all, support to the african union mission in darfur. second, support for the mission of the special representative of the secretary-general of the united nations, mr pronk. third, pressure on the government and the splm to conclude the naivasha peace process. fourth, pressure on the government and the slm and the jem to conclude the abuja peace process. fifth, coordinating policies and actions with the other international actors. sixth, provision of humanitarian assistance. finally, active consideration of further measures to increase the pressure on the parties, including sanctions. support for the african union constitutes a simple element to the eu's darfur policy. the dafur crisis has shown that the african union is prepared to provide leadership in meeting africa's challenges. the eu is fully behind the african union. a strong and able african union is crucial for africa's future. this applies in particular to conflict prevention, management and a solution of the darfur issue. the african union has taken two major initiatives. first of all, it has fielded the ceasefire commission which is monitoring the n'djamena agreement and developments in darfur and second, it has initiated negotiations between the government of sudan and the rebel movements. the au mission is currently staffed by 125 monitors, including monitors from the eu and the united states, and has completed approximately 20 investigations into ceasefire violations. the au monitoring staff is supported by a protection force of 305, made up of rwandan and nigerian troops. at the request of the african union, the united nations has prepared a comprehensive plan on how best to enhance the effectiveness of the au mission on the ground. the plan envisages an enlarged au mission to darfur, with increased numbers of military observers, increased military personnel in the protection force, in the civilian police and civilian support staff. more staff will also be deployed at the au headquarters in addis ababa. depending on how these plans are further elaborated, the eu will consider supporting an enhanced au mission in darfur. in abuja, the government of sudan and the rebels have agreed on a humanitarian protocol and a new round of discussions on the security protocol is also envisaged. the european union has been represented during the first round of negotiations and urges both the government and the rebels to resume the talks with great urgency. together with the african union, the united nations is an important player in resolving the crisis in darfur. secretary-general annan visited sudan in july. he reached an agreement with the government of sudan on a series of benchmarks laid down in the communiqué of 3 july. these benchmarks serve as a basis for the work of the joint implementation mechanism, which is co-chaired by special representative jan pronk and the sudanese foreign minister ismail. on 6 august, mr pronk reached an agreement with the sudanese government on a plan of action. the eu supports the action plan but sees resolution 1556 as the main framework to maintain pressure on the government of sudan. i believe that the message to the sudanese authorities should be consistent and straightforward. the more so since in his report to the security council of 2 september, special representative pronk acknowledged progress in safety in camps and in humanitarian access, but stressed that the situation in darfur continues to be very serious. recent evidence of continued killings of villagers in darfur in attacks by armed forces and the janjaweed illustrates how serious the situation remains. since the presentation by mr pronk to the security council on 2 september, there have been ongoing discussions on a new security council resolution. the european union is in favour of a strong resolution to maintain pressure on the parties in the sudan. at the meeting of the general affairs council on monday, we discussed preliminary options for sanctions. for the moment, the threat of sanctions is probably the best means to press the government of sudan to comply with its commitments. the united states supports this line also. in a public hearing in the senate, secretary of state powell announced support for the expansion of the au mission and for the idea of curbing sudanese military flights over darfur, and raised the possibility of introducing sanctions. at the same time, he urged the government of sudan and the splm, as well as the slm and the jem, to intensify efforts to conclude negotiations. this coincides with the eu point of view, as stated in our conclusions last monday. finally, a word on humanitarian assistance and the way forward. while access for humanitarian assistance has improved, the humanitarian situation is still critical. violence may have decreased but the notorious janjaweed and militia remain active. the security situation is absolutely unsatisfactory and an important indicator for this is that hardly any of the idps and refugees are returning to their homes. we once more urgently call on the government of sudan to curb the violence, disarm and bring the janjaweed to justice, and guarantee the safety of civilians outside the camps. the eu is an important contributor to humanitarian assistance and so far has provided eur 288 million. much more is needed and, as special representative pronk indicated in his report, only 50% of the funding requirements of the united nations response to the darfur crisis has been met, leaving a funding shortfall of usd 255 million for the darfur crisis alone. the eu should also make a major contribution to this shortfall. in the meantime, we should prepare for reconstruction in darfur to be started as soon as the crisis has ended and a comprehensive peace agreement has been signed between north and south. finally, the way forward. the international community should continue to press for an early political solution to the conflicts that are destroying sudan. pressure on the parties to continue both the naivasha and abuja processes, support for the au and the united nations, humanitarian assistance and the preparedness to apply further measures, including sanctions, are key elements in the eu policy on sudan. the eu is committed to helping to bring peace and stability to sudan. the eu works shoulder-to-shoulder with the african union and the united nations, but will take its own responsibility based on the council's conclusions of 12 and 26 july, and of 13 september. peace in the sudan is of enormous national significance but it will also have a crucial influence on peace in the region, as i have said. peace in the sudan is therefore a central objective of our african policy.
commission. mr president, i am grateful for the opportunity to address the crisis which has developed in darfur and for the interest shown by parliament and the committee on development in making this its first mission of this new parliamentary term. the mission has returned with a clear picture of a complex situation and has expressed indignation at the terrible events which continue to unfold in darfur. the commission had been actively engaged in delivering humanitarian aid to the western part of sudan before this crisis became what it has. things are so terrible now that we have mobilised to date eur 105 m. this has mostly been spent on basic humanitarian food aid, but we are also trying to support the political process. this amount corresponds to some 37% of what the eu as a whole has contributed. normally, the commission's share of support in these humanitarian crises is about 20% of what member states give in total. i would add here that we see quite a spread when we compare what different member states have contributed. i mention this because i find the qualitative value of what the eu as a whole is doing in a given situation is related not only to what the commission is doing or the total amount of what we do, but also to the genuine character of commitment across europe as a whole in support of our activity. we are also directing money and effort to the situation in chad, by providing shelter for an estimated 200 000 refuges from darfur. in mobilising aid we have been facing persistent administrative blockages from the government of sudan and major logistical problems resulting in substantial additional costs. more than 25% of the costs of this operation relates to the logistical problems. the administrative problems are progressively being solved, in my view thanks to a large extent to the international community's pressure on the sudanese government. as to logistics, echo is opening a technical antenna in darfur and another in chad to improve coordination in the field. they will be operational by the end of this month and we are planning for an initial period of 12 months. however, there is still a lot more to do. it is estimated that about 40% of the affected population still has no access to humanitarian aid and, in spite of improvement in some areas, violence, including systematic rape of women, is still being reported. i am aware that the mission has returned with accounts of terrible violence and great fear. it is important for the international community to remain mobilised, as the humanitarian needs will continue for another year, even in the best-case scenario. as we have seen, the effects of these crises continue to be felt and we must organise ourselves to handle them better in future. in parallel to humanitarian aid, the eu has been very active in the political sphere. we have mobilised for the first time the edf-funded african peace facility, providing the bigger part of the budget of the mission of the african union. this has allowed a rapid response from the african union peace and security council via a decision taken at its first official meeting and following the humanitarian ceasefire agreement in n'djamena. it has sent some 150 observers and a 300 strong military protection force to monitor the ceasefire. in spite of the limited scale of this operation, results in the field have been positive. i firmly believe that only an african union initiative will have the political weight and relevance to oblige the belligerents, and in particular the government of sudan, to comply with their commitments. this does not mean that others should not and cannot play a very important role. partnership and ownership are not incompatible, especially when the partnership is carried out in a professional manner, reflecting the sound principle that visibility is fine but feasibility is better. it is clear that some of the existing weakness of the organisation experienced by the african union could, and should, be addressed by an enhanced partnership with the united nations and with the eu as such, including our member states. however, i appreciate, as the presidency has also today clearly stated, that the african union has to be in the driving seat. they have to initiate and drive this mission. in this respect the commission is ready, in liaison with the member states - and if the au so requests - to envisage additional support through the peace facility to a well-planned extension of the au mission in darfur. the most urgent objective is clearly to ensure maximum protection for the civilian population. the whole problem of whether or not to return, and what to return to, essentially depends on people's feeling of security in that situation. we have to be ready to discus with the parties in appropriate fora a possible amendment of the current mandate of the au mission, if the government of sudan is unwilling or unable to effectively protect the population of darfur. this is a must. it is also important to note that we are facing a real conflict. there is more to this than some disorganised violence. there is not only the problem concerning the government of sudan, there are rebel groups fighting for their agendas - they do exist. for that reason, all this has to be dealt with through a serious effort to mediate, putting pressure on all the parties. it is also important to emphasise that a sustainable political solution for darfur necessarily has to be articulated and worked out in parallel with and in relation to the global naivasha process. a solution for darfur alone will not solve the wider problem. in fact the problem in darfur did not come out of the blue, it was a result of the problems in sudan. a measure of political agreement has been reached in abuja and that is a good start, but we have to support all forces working to push this in the right direction and at the same time focus on the enormous task of improving the humanitarian situation in the field.
mr president, i was a member of a fact-finding mission of the european parliament to darfur. my conclusions are as follows: the security situation there is alarming; the political situation has not changed; the sudanese government is not willing to take any steps beyond those forced upon it by international political will; the humanitarian situation has improved only slightly. i am very sorry to state here that only a very short time after 9/11 we have tens of thousands of very poor people living in camps. there is no future for them, nor any way back. fifty per cent of the population in the camps is under 15 years of age, so we are creating a new generation of deprived people who can only take up kalashnikovs and become new fundamentalists and new extremists. we have to be very precise in the measures that we take to ensure our individual and common security. what are the points to be discussed? the first is the ethnic context. we have seen that there are no arabs in the camps. ninety per cent of those to whom we have spoken do not have arabic as their mother tongue. in arabic they are called "suda", the black population. there is massive sexual violence. one sheikh told us that they have to send women out of the camps for food and water because they at least come back, whereas if they send men, they are killed. there is mass killing and a mass expulsion of the population from its camps. this should be stopped immediately. the situation is even more alarming in security terms than in humanitarian terms. with regard to humanitarian aid, it reaches up to 60% of idps in the camps. the situation has improved because the sudanese government allows ngos and certain humanitarian organisations to reach the territories under its control.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i strongly disagree with the fact that some countries are not respecting the stability pact and that the european commission is even allowing some discussion of its possible relaxation. i believe that soft budgetary rules equals more debt, and i believe that it is the softening and non-enforcement of the rules that equals the loss of credibility of the european union as a whole. we say the same thing about ourselves: in the european union, the role models are not those who prosper, create profits and jobs, but those who live on debt and delay solving the economic problems of their countries. the european reality, let us face it, is that many member states are now facing stagnation, high unemployment, rising debts. i therefore believe that any softness on the part of the european union is not appropriate. on the contrary, i believe that the commission must put more pressure on the prosperity of individual countries, call for their budgetary self-discipline, for debt reduction and job creation, and above all, ensure that the rules that the european union has set for itself are respected. i would point out that it is not this parliament, nor the spin doctors of individual politicians or individual governments, but the global market that will evaluate the commission's economic measures. and the market, as we know, penalizes debtors and untrustworthy entities very harshly. if we relax the rules, i think we're going to see a single, massive flight of companies out of the european union, a massive flight of companies to asia, to ukraine, to areas where there are lower taxes, cheaper labor, and, we have to admit, cheaper welfare states. any softening of stability and growth can bring neither prosperity, nor more jobs, nor a more competitive european union in the global economy. if the european commission does not realise this and curb spending that is not based on economic performance, the stability and development pact will turn into a pact of instability and collapse. thank you for your attention.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen. let me share with you the concerns i have as a member from a new member state. the stability pact was for us, before accession, a powerful and understandable symbol of european stability, not because of its name but because of its content. he was a symbol of the guardian of a healthy economy as well as of sound rules and justice. for all of us, without exception. i said he was, because he's not now. this symbol needs to be rehabilitated. budgetary discipline is now a political risk for governments committed to reforming public finances, and it is crucial for the stability of the european union as a whole. the flexibility of interpretation and the relativisation of the pact is a stab in the back for these brave governments. it is not flexibility in the interpretation of the rules, but flexibility in the european union's trade policy that citizens and businesses expect. i would like to draw the commission's attention to the threat to the internal market of the european union posed by unfair trading practices by third countries. it is therefore important that the commission open negotiations with the wto on import quotas, especially from china, which ignores the social and environmental rules of our market. three million jobs in the textile industry and unemployment of women, and thus employment stability, are at stake, starting next january. trade policy flexibility and trusted rules will help stability. i welcome the commission's efforts to make the rules more transparent, i believe it will open negotiations with the wto, and i have my fingers crossed for it.
mr president, i think, in agreement with the other speakers i have heard here, that the peculiarity of the fact that at least in the rest of yugoslavia peaceful coexistence has been maintained between a number of nations, almost two dozen nations, should be preserved. the question is, of course, to what extent this resolution, which i have studied carefully, contributes to that. i believe that by adopting this resolution we are only indicating that we are taking one side, that we are not concerned with the preservation of yugoslavia or serbia as a single state, but that we are concerned with a one-sided view. because according to the latest reports, the same things my hungarian colleagues are talking about here apply to a number of other nationalities. so this is not just a unilateral attack on the hungarian minority, it is an attempt to break the peaceful coexistence of the peoples who live together here, and let us consider to whom and what kind of signal we are sending with such a resolution. my older compatriots from the former czechoslovakia heard something similar as early as the 1930s and the result was the liquidation of our state. so i can't vote for this resolution.
i believe that mr barroso is a capable politician, a politician who can come up with new solutions, a politician who is moving the rather resilient structures of the european union, particularly the economically resilient ones, and therefore i think that he must be given a chance and that his authority should not be undermined right from the start. we should also not allow the european parliament to become a battleground for domestic political battles. we should seek constructive solutions and positive solutions and not be manipulated into a crisis. therefore, mr barroso will have the support of the czech delegation to the epp-ed club. secondly, mr barroso has come forward as the guardian of the treaties, the guardian of the spirit of the european treaties. i'm happy for you. let me remind you that it is also clearly stated in these treaties that they can only be amended by unanimity, and this applies also and above all to the so-called european constitutions. if even one state does not ratify this constitution, then the constitution is not valid. we cannot therefore allow various politicians to say that it does not matter if one, two or three countries do not ratify this constitution, that it will still apply, or even that those who do not ratify it will have to leave the european union. i hope that the commission will also be clear about the position of the existing treaties, that it will say that it will not allow such distortions and similar statements, and that it will say that it is prepared for the alternative of not having the european constitution come into force, and that the commission will be willing to cooperate in solving such a future situation, without wanting to anticipate such a solution now. i therefore hope that the commission will be a catalyst and play a positive role in the process of discussion on the euro-constitution.
thank you, mr. chairman. ladies and gentlemen, i am sure i am not alone in thinking that one of the most important tasks and objectives of the enlarged european union in the 25 member states is undoubtedly to achieve the widest possible social cohesion, guaranteeing the security of living and working conditions. the draft budget for 2005 in its current form, however, does not strike a balance between economic and social development. it aims to achieve greater balance and solidarity between member states and to ensure equal opportunities in the labour market and in social life. not only does the proposed budget fall short of the possible ceiling of 1.27% of the european union's gross national product, but in line with developments in recent years, it is less than 1%. but the size of the budget is not, in my view, the biggest problem. this is the case with the planned cuts in the structural funds for the financing of retraining programmes, the fight against social exclusion, education and the support of socially oriented ngos. on the contrary, spending on the common security and foreign policy is increasing. in my view, the european union must not give priority to the vision of a neoliberal market economy and strengthen its military potential, but must focus on the goal of improving the quality of life. many of the social problems of citizens in the new member states have their origins in part in meeting the economic requirements that the european union placed on the new member states. it would therefore only be fair to reward their efforts and their trust in the european union. in my opinion, the budget does not correspond to that, and therefore, unfortunately, i reject it. thank you, sir.
for the group ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, i have had the opportunity to participate in election monitoring in many of the council of europe member states on several occasions. i voted in belarus three years ago, and last week. so i have something to compare and something to compare. in this context, i agree with some of the critical remarks contained in the bse report, such as the unequal access of political parties to television. i also reject any violence, whether it's perpetrated by individuals or state power. but let's remember that virtual reality that was used to guide policy making before the conflicts in yugoslavia and before the conflict in iraq. secondly, let's not forget that what we say about minsk today will be true about kiev tomorrow. i think it has been said here that we all want belarus to be included in a dignified way in the european concert. in my opinion, the way to help this is not by isolating, but by helping the concrete, simple belarusian people. the belarusians should feel that the european union is interested in a stable and democratic neighbour on its eastern border, with respect for the right to choose. this feeling, in my judgment, can be created not only by resolutions but also by concrete actions. for example, by strengthening assistance to people in the chernobyl disaster area, by helping to address migration and border protection issues, by allowing greater communication with students or by supporting citizens' initiatives. all of these can be tools to change the situation for the benefit of ordinary people, and those, i think, are what democracy is all about.
the debate is closed by a motion for a resolution tabled by the committee on foreign affairs. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12:30 p.m.
the next item is the joint debate on:- report by anders samuelsen (a6-0031/2004) - european agency for renewal on the proposal for a council regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 2667/2000 on the european agency for renewal and on the european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for report by mr mechtild rothe (a6-0032/2004) - financial support facility (cyprus) proposal for a council regulation establishing a financial support facility to promote the economic development of the turkish community in cyprus
thank you for your motion. i promise you we will check it.
i am sorry, but that is not a point of order.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12:30. (the sitting was suspended at 6.25 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
mr president of the european commission, you will have my vote tomorrow. but before i give it to you, i would like to remind you of what you said here when you asked for the confidence of this parliament in july. you said that europe must first earn its own way to the welfare state, and i firmly believe that you will not lose heart and that you will really take on the task of moving the european economy forward. today, the president of the european council, mr balkenende, informed us that the prime ministers of the member states would like to see a parliamentary committee on employment and growth. but the house committee isn't creating jobs, it's just taking more money out of the taxpayers' pockets. there is only one cure for increasing economic performance and creating jobs, and i firmly believe you know this, to convince business people that the european union is the right place for them to do well. and that is the task that faces you and your committee. i have a european union flag, i bought it a floor down. there's not much to notice about it except for a little sign, and that little sign says made in china, which means it's now cheaper for entrepreneurs to make the european union flag in china and bring it from far away china to the heart of the european union. unfortunately, this too is a concrete result of the economic policies of the past and we have to admit it. i trust, mr president, that you will inspire all your colleagues in the commission with the knowledge that you cannot create a welfare state on debt and thus devour the future of our children. please try to give some of the prime ministers of the european 25 the same courage to start reforming their social systems, cutting taxes and saving instead of setting up parliamentary committees. i, you and the commission, are holding our fingers.
this item, ladies and gentlemen, is called the debate on the violation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. i think that no matter who is, who is not considered a citizen of any state, this message should be universally preserved. i note that in the case of one of the most important states in west africa, claims of a stable democratic structure of society have been made for years, while the presence of tens of thousands of europeans and the relatively stable economy of one of the largest cocoa exporters have been overshadowed, from abidjan's point of view, by tribal problems and, above all, by the dangers of potential tensions between the christian south, the islamic north and possible refugees. to be sure, the current unfortunate situation is compounded by the rivalry between france and the united states in west africa, on the one hand, and by the worsening economic situation of the country, which has created social tensions and become a fertile breeding ground for religious nationalism by extremist groups, on the other. the violence against the civilian population, with its national, racial and religious undertones, is particularly dangerous. it is therefore necessary, despite the fact that this is a conflict between two imperialist powers, to encourage by all means the deployment of international peacekeeping forces with a decisive contribution from african forces. only in this way can the basic conditions for resolving the crisis be ensured. it is also a way to alleviate the anti-french passions caused by the intervention of the army of the former colonial power. i am not assessing the appropriateness of paralyzing the regime's air force in a situation where there are several anti-government armed groups in the country, i am only stating that this does not solve the situation. one thing is certain, for the vast majority of the population these actions bring only one thing, suffering, deterioration in the health and social situation. human rights violations, incitement to violence, destruction of infrastructure and silencing of opposition cannot be tolerated. that is the aim of the resolution, which i strongly recommend that you support. thank you, sir.
ladies and gentlemen, if we are to talk about the human rights situation in eritrea, we must first ask ourselves what standard we are comparing this situation to. we often talk about universal human rights. i am not sure that our european approach is always applicable in all countries of the world, in all cultural contexts. it is true that for many years we have seen the most reactionary regimes in some parts of the world develop, through their support, laboratories of obscurantism, militant islam and attempts to resolve border disputes by military means. in this case, it's a dispute with ethiopia. following efforts to establish democratic relations and peaceful cooperation with neighbours, the situation in eritrea has become significantly more complicated and is deteriorating gradually in most areas monitored by international organisations. poor infrastructure, low literacy, low economic development, and religious ignorance culminate in efforts to increase the recruitment of youths into the armed forces. the answer is to try to escape the country. it is impossible, by any human rights standard we apply, to remain silent about this state of affairs. if members of the country's parliament and foreign journalists are being held in prison without any formal charges being brought against them, if the freedoms enshrined in the country's constitution are being violated, if even the elementary requirements of international human rights conventions are being violated, it is impossible to remain inactive. we must act, and this in the spirit of article 96 of the cotonou agreement, which has already been quoted by commissioner figel. the resolution presented here is the first step towards change, an attempt to help solve the seemingly hopeless situation of one of the poorest countries in the world. i therefore call on you to support this resolution.
i have received six motions for resolutions. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11:00. this debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the financial outlook. question for oral answer to the council on the preparation of the new financial framework.
i have received draft resolution b6-0189/2004 on the temporary committee on political challenges and budgetary appropriations of the enlarged union for 2007-2013. this debate is closed.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the eu-russia summit.
thank you, mr nicolaï, both for your statement and for the time you have shared with us.
mr president, i would just like a brief explanation of vote on the overall vote on mr coelha's report, that i was going to vote against in the final vote and i voted for. it doesn't change the outcome. thank you, sir.
mr president, during our last plenary sitting in strasbourg we approved a new european commission. like other major european institutions, it ought to be based on certain values and basic principles, such as equality between and amongst its member states. but if we look, for instance, at the distribution of civil servants' posts between the old and new member states in the commission, this is unfortunately not the case. so far, less than a handful of the commission's 265 most senior jobs are occupied by officials from the new member states. the commission has reserved eight posts at a1 level and 29 posts at a2 level. so far, however, only three of the commission's 34 deputy directors-general and none of its 32 directors-general are from the new member states. this situation cannot continue. the european union is not george orwell's animal farm, where all members are equal but some are more equal. rather, i would say that it should be a community based on principles of equality and justice. therefore, i ask the commission to come to parliament with a regular progress report on this issue and i also urge the president of our parliament to monitor the situation closely.
what is turkey today? today, it's the first and third world in one state. perhaps what count mirabeau said about prussia could be applied to turkey today, that it is not a state that has an army, but an army that should be a state. what can turkey be and should turkey be? a normal european state, where there are broad guarantees of civil rights and where there are also guarantees of solid relations with neighbours. all of turkey's neighbours must be given international legal guarantees, and of course it should also be a state where social rights are respected and where trade unions are free to defend those who belong to them. and it should also be a solid economic project that will mean investment in the east of the country, and can change centuries of backwardness. this means the europeanisation of turkey and not the de-europeanisation of europe, which would result in the degeneration of the european project into a free trade area. if mr. schröder recently said that mr. erdogan is his friend, it would be to say... (the president cut off the speaker)
the european council will make a very important decision this week. decision on whether to open accession talks with turkey. the opponents of accession, and we have heard these arguments here today, argue that turkey is not a european country, that it has different cultural, historical, religious roots from europe, that its territory is in an unstable middle eastern region, that human, civil and political rights are not sufficiently respected in turkey, that turkey is not ready either politically, economically or in terms of its socioeconomic development. surely many of these arguments can be accepted. the decision to be taken by the european council, which we are now discussing, is not about turkey's accession, but about the opening of accession negotiations. there is no doubt that turkey, in its current state, is not ready to join the european union, but neither is the european union ready to join turkey. but in the decision whether to open talks with turkey or not, i think there is a big difference. as mentioned above, these accession negotiations will take place over many years, during which time individual measures, progress, progress in individual areas will be monitored in detail, whether it is in the area of human civil rights, political reform, socio-economic development, etc. and of course, if there's any breach of the terms of the agreement, the negotiations will be suspended at any time, as we've discussed. i am of the opinion that the european union should live up to its commitments. the fact that turkey has been granted candidate country status, and that turkey has made clear progress in meeting the copenhagen criteria, according to a report published by the european commission, means that turkey should be given a chance. a chance to continue sweeping political economic reforms, a chance to fulfill the legacy of the founder of the modern turkish state, kemal ataturk, and to move closer to the west. it is an ambitious project, and i believe that if it succeeds, turkey and the european union will benefit, if not... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioners, we often hear in the european parliament about the implementation of the lisbon strategy. we also often hear about their falling behind in achieving their goals. we are in the middle of a period at the end of which we want to be the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy, capable of sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs. if europe's place in the knowledge economy is to be consolidated, the right conditions must be created. european education and training systems must adapt to the requirements of the new economy and must be able to interconnect. opportunities for education and training must be offered in different member states and at different stages of life to young people, the unemployed as well as the employed, who are at risk of having their qualifications devalued by rapid technological change. the single community framework for transparency in the field of qualifications and competences, which is being discussed today, will make it easier for citizens to communicate their qualifications and competences to europe. it will achieve better coordination, rationalisation and efficiency of the current system of using documents for the transparency of qualifications and competences adopted at european level. many employers and school heads are aware of the current problems of assessing the level of knowledge and skills achieved in the non-uniform framework of different certificates, diplomas and diplomas. the creation of europass will make it easier for workers, students, employers and educational institutions to operate in the european labour and education markets.
mr president barroso, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is a global community. we are now discussing the strategic focus of your commission. i would therefore ask you to ask your commission, perhaps in cooperation with the council of the european union, to give a clear answer to all the citizens of the european union as soon as possible on what will happen if the european constitution is not ratified in one single country in the next two years. i know that the main political forces in this parliament take it for granted that the european constitution will pass in all 25 countries, but i can assure you that the reality in my country is different. i'm not saying it won't pass, but no one there is taking it for granted that the constitution should pass. at the moment there is a kind of legal vacuum, as it were, which has arisen, just as it did when the first draft of your commission's composition was not adopted, and no one is able to give a clear answer to what will happen. interpretations are proliferating, such as that if the constitution is not approved in the former 15 countries, the process of creating it will begin again. the interpretations are many, if it is not approved by the new ten, the same process as in nice will follow, or if the referendum is repeated in the same country after a year. i think that the new countries are not inferior to have these two interpretations, and that the citizens of the european union should have a clear answer to what will happen if the european constitution is not adopted in one single country. i'd like to make one more argument to support that. at this point, the financial perspective for the period 2007-2013 drawn up by the european commission is clearly based on the existence of an approved european constitution, and i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that both citizens and this parliament know the answer to what will happen when the european constitution is no longer in force.
at the end of this debate , i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 of the rules of procedure . see entry the vote will be thursday. the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 11.30 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon.)
i'm going to focus on one topic in my short talk, and that's the topic of expansion. we have witnessed an unprecedented historic expansion to ten new countries. i myself come from a new country, and i think we can all agree that after the first seven months, we can say that this enlargement has been a success. it was a success for europe, for the so-called old member countries and for the new ones. the process of historic enlargement of europe is not complete, however. we talked here, and we'll talk this afternoon, about romania, we'll talk about bulgaria. i am convinced that both bulgaria and romania are well on their way to the european union and i believe that they will contribute, with the help of the european union, to successfully joining our community in 2007. we'll also talk about croatia. croatia plays a certain key role in the western balkans. i would like the european council to give a clear signal to croatia that accession talks with croatia should be opened. after meeting the relevant copenhagen criteria, of course, and also the requirements of the international court of justice in the hague. croatia, i think, can play a big role in the western balkans, can be a future model for serbia, bosnia, montenegro, macedonia and other countries in the western balkans. yesterday there was talk, and today there will be again, about turkey. i would like the european council to honour its commitments, to honour the european promises and to open accession negotiations with turkey. i think that by giving turkey the status of a candidate country, we owe it to turkey, and we also support the reform process in turkey, we support the process that has been successfully going on for the last two years.
for the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on a very good and balanced report. the report mentions both positives and negatives, both strengths and weaknesses, in which romania will have to add. on the positive side, the report clearly states that romania fulfils the copenhagen political criteria, that it has consolidated the stability of its institutions, which are the guarantors of democracy, the rule of law and human rights, and that the situation regarding the protection of human and national rights has improved, whether it concerns the hungarian minority or the roma minority. on the positive side, romania also fulfils the criteria of a functioning market economy and also implements and has implemented a structural reform programme. if we look at the economic performance, the economic statistics of romania, we see that romania is showing one of the strongest growth rates in all of eastern europe. but of course romania also has to make a considerable effort, to make a considerable progress, in order to be accepted into the european union. both mr. nicholas and mr. rehn have mentioned certain areas in detail. i'll remember some of them. it's the area of justice and home affairs, it's of course, like everywhere in eastern europe, the fight against corruption, organized crime, and also border controls. the problems persist in the areas of competition, state aid and, of course, environmental protection. i think that romania is on the right track, it will depend on it whether it manages to eliminate all these weaknesses in the coming months. if he succeeds, i believe that the treaty should be signed in 2005 so that romania can join the european union in 2007 together with bulgaria.
i'd like to say my card is still unregistered and evil, but i was in.
