i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this afternoon we are dealing with the report by mr pex on penalties for marine pollution offences. mr pex and mr doorn and others are doing well. i say this so that you will not be alarmed by what i am about to add: they have had an air crash. the machine may have rolled too far, i understand, but everyone's fine. mr pex asks that his report be dealt with today and not postponed, that it be presented by mr bremmer, who is not a member of the committee but is aware of the subject. i would like to make that request here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the debate and vote on the zappalà report on the recognition of diplomas will take place on thursday. the debate should take place on thursday morning; i would, however, ask that we postpone the vote on this report until the brussels meeting at the end of the month. i am asking this on behalf of my group for two reasons. the first is that there are a few amendments which still need to be checked before they are translated again today, and that will be very short of time. i think there will be more than 300 amendments in all. the other is that a whole series of members of this house are flying to india on thursday morning for the social forum. the recognition of professions is such an important issue, affecting so many citizens, that it would be really sensible and right for a very large number of members to vote on it in this house. that's why we should do it at a time when it's guaranteed to be a very large crowd. we therefore ask that the vote on this report be held in brussels at the end of the month. the debate is still to be held on thursday morning. (applause from the centre)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is not i would like to represent the rapporteur on this matter. i have been informed that the rapporteur would have liked to put this report to the vote this week, partly because, as we know, attendance is higher in strasbourg than in brussels. it is a particularly important subject which has been discussed for many, many months and we have repeatedly postponed the vote in committee, also because of the importance and difficulty of this subject. but this time we believe that the matter is ready for decision and can be decided this week.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i did not want to comment, but now that there have been some comments, i would like to do so. it must be absolutely clear to us in the european parliament that we will not allow anyone - be they terrorists, anarchists or whoever - to put pressure on us. we say that the unification of europe is a work of peace, a work of understanding and a work of reconciliation. no one in europe or in the world will succeed in stopping us from this work of peace. so we should think about how we can further increase our security. but we should continue our work for peace and european unity. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr simpson will speak for the group later, we were just exchanging because i have to go to the bureau. since the beginning of last year, the united states of america has required passenger data to be provided before boarding a flight. some of this information is very personal. the us authorities planned to store this data for 50 years and to make it available to other security authorities, in addition to the fight against terrorism and possible threats in this context. if airlines do not comply, they have been threatened with heavy fines or the risk of losing land rights. this has also led to strong criticism in the european parliament, particularly because it is an infringement of the law, because it is a massive breach of two european legal acts, namely the data protection directive and the regulation on the handling of data in flight bookings. the commission has acted accordingly, as the commissioner has pointed out. where are we today? the 50 years of storage time have become three and a half years. the restriction on use has been enforced. the data will be used only for the fight against terrorism and related crimes. the arrangement will initially be in force for three and a half years, then it will be renegotiated. and not all passenger data is transmitted; the us authorities have assured that the most personal, sensitive information will be deleted from the "special service information" and the "special service request". in addition, the rule of law will be restored, because passengers must give their consent beforehand, and the commission will insist that we actively provide the data. we can use it to filter them out. right now, the americans are still getting the data. unfortunately, this still does not meet the european standard for data protection, but it would be unfair to say that not much has been achieved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in these three and a half years, it must be demonstrated whether the system really does bring something before any further consideration is given.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think we should not just focus on the shipping accidents and their consequences, but rather we should do something about the - as i must say - daily mess on our seas. i therefore congratulate you, commissioner, on this report. i think it is a good proposal and i would also like to congratulate mr pex, who is unfortunately absent, on his good report. we have to do something about this. in 2001 alone, there were about a thousand illegal dumping operations in the north sea and the baltic sea, and this can no longer be allowed to be treated as a trivial offence, like parking or speeding, but must finally be punished and prosecuted as a criminal offence. and criminal prosecution means severe penalties, which are tangible, fines, prison, but also - as the committee has requested - the seizure of ships. the rapporteur has rightly pointed out that a number of laws adopted by parliament and the council have still not been implemented. keyword: port reception facilities and port state control. commissioner, you have every support in this parliament to bring the countries which have not properly implemented this directive before the ecj, to make it public and thus to create the pressure for this directive to finally be implemented. the best laws are ineffective unless enforced and monitored. we need a european coastguard, and there is consensus in this parliament on this too, because control in ports is one thing, but control on the high seas must be added. we've gotten used to the fact that it's perfectly normal for trucks to be checked not just in the yards, but on the street. this must be possible at sea in the future. commissioner, you said that the council considered this too ambitious. these arguments cannot be allowed. i believe that we must not encourage the council to hide behind formalities, but we must force it to act. if europe comes together and acts together, we will also make progress on maritime safety and navigation internationally. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the sea. we can do something about that. we support you in this and you have every support to publicly denounce the governments that do not participate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues, the rapporteurs, very warmly for these reports and for all those who have contributed to the discussion in advance. i would also like to thank the commission. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that is what the commission is doing. i really want to thank you for this. i think that's progress. i think that's an improvement on what we've had so far. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's nuclear safety is not compromised by the fact that the community is not able to take action against nuclear accidents. on the other hand, we refuse to accept that these crossborder risks deserve european regulation. and that is a contradiction which has not been resolved by these guidelines either. but at least we've come a long way. i am therefore in favour of a directive and not of a recommendation, as some member states are calling for, for reasons which are sometimes very different. but i am in favour of a directive, not least because a directive can be extended in the future. these directives - and this has been said on several occasions - leave the responsibility to the member states. but that is reasonable in today's view and should be confirmed. the advantage of the directives is that they will make this responsibility more transparent for national governments in the future. that means that we will also have a debate here in parliament on inspection reports, and the colleagues who are re-elected will then have the opportunity to do so. the next point is the vidal-quadras report. it has been discussed on several occasions that waste is actually defined politically, partly in the commission's text. in other words, waste is waste when it is no longer used. but physically speaking, they could be used again. that is why the recovery is extremely important. in a hundred or two hundred years, it may well be that what is waste today may become fuel again. physically, it is possible. and we should leave that possibility open to future generations. so, recovery must be possible. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject. the next point is to reduce waste, reduce volume, reduce toxicity. i would like to raise a point which we have not discussed here but which we will certainly have to discuss in the future, namely the question of the transmutation of long-lived isotopes. in principle, it is quite possible that long-lived isotopes, especially the minor actinides, can be reduced by transmutation in their half-lives, that the volume of these pollutants or wastes can also be reduced and that therefore less toxic substances need to be stored. but interestingly, this requires research, a new generation of technology, and it is not excluded that perhaps with the fourth generation of nuclear power plants, this will even become part of the intrinsic technologies, the philosophy built into the reactor. that's not to be ruled out, either. in any case, work is being done on this, and the commission is involved in this fourth generation. the next point which has been of great concern to us is the question of funds, i.e. the financing of the closure of a power station or plant. the council of ministers has now presented us with a very simplified form. the majority of parliament will probably agree to this. i think that's reasonable. but that does not answer the question: what about competition? there is not only the euratom treaty, but also the competition articles. it is very possible that someone will come up with the idea and say: there are companies that have to put a lot of money into these funds, and others that get this financed by their government. is this not a competitive disadvantage for those who invest in these funds? and that is not what the directive is about and is not what the council of ministers wants. but i am sure that in the coming years this question will have to be discussed again. i think that the debate and this directive are progress and i hope that we will adopt the reports tomorrow by a large majority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. despite the european-wide trend towards nuclear energy, the commission is acting as a handyman for the declining nuclear industry. instead of relying on sustainable energy - renewable energy, that is - try to revive the nuclear industry. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the products concerned. this shows the strong links with the nuclear lobby. under the pretext of harmonizing safety standards in the enlarged eu, you, commissioner, have actually put forward a massive programme of support for the unprofitable european nuclear industry. instead of creating real safety standards, you are trying to give the public - i think - a tranquilizer with the waxy, undefined basic standards. because what is completely missing from your nuclear package is, in fact, drastic tightening of the safety regulations. in addition, you are trying to place the responsibility for monitoring nuclear installations on the member states. we know that you have no solution to the end-of-life problems, and it doesn't help to try to set really completely unrealistic location deadlines. and what i find even more scandalous is that you are even indirectly asking the member states to shift their unresolved waste disposal problems to eastern europe. i think that this is a huge risk, particularly for the illegal spread and release of radioactivity into the environment.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. in november 2002, the commission proposed to increase euratom loans by eur 2 billion, from eur 4 billion to eur 6 billion. at the same time, the commission has changed the scope and conditions of lending in view of eu enlargement. the euratom appropriations were established in 1977 and have been increased five times since then. the last increase in 1990 to 4 billion was decided to use up the eur 3.8 billion loan facility before any increase was considered. unfortunately, the committee has not yet received a clear answer as to how much money has actually been spent. the commission has included in its calculation eur 688 million for the completion of k2r4 in ukraine. however, the commission had to admit last october that the cost of completing these reactors is not that much and that ukraine will only receive between 175 and 500 million euros. this change in the situation with regard to the k2r4 reactors does not comply with the 1990 decision and i think it is very important to take this into account, particularly because of possible legal problems. although the council is discussing the amount of euratom appropriations and their use together, the european parliament has not been officially and formally consulted on the increase of eur 2 billion. my report regrets that the european parliament is not consulted on this critically discussed enormous increase in credit and the possible negative impact on the european single market. the council is also asked in my report to consult the european parliament if it substantially changes the commission proposal, especially since the commission proposals are contained in a single document. it is a pity that the european parliament should be giving its opinion today and tomorrow on a document which is completely obsolete, and unfortunately that will be the case, precisely because the council is working on a single document, i.e. discussing both the amount of the loans and the conditions of the loans together. i would ask you to take this up again, because it would be a waste of time for our institution and would not be in keeping with the dignity of parliament to have a debate and vote on a completely obsolete document which is currently being discussed in a totally different way in the council. we as a parliament expect the commission to be honest in this matter. the commission proposal therefore contains - as has already been mentioned on several occasions - two decisions. that means that the commission is taking the proposals apart and we as parliament are not being consulted on the increase. it also means that the commission has not incorporated in its proposals the decisions which parliament has just discussed in the debate on the constitution in the convention. in this debate, the european parliament called for the euratom treaty to expire in 2004, as has already happened with coal and steel. i think you should include that too, commissioner. parliament has repeatedly called for this. you said earlier in the debate on the nuclear package that renewable energy is running out. the fact is that such loans are available for only one energy source. i would like to conclude by saying something very brief. i know that as rapporteur i have to give the committee's position. the committee voted very narrowly on the amendment by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, which provides that the loans should be granted only to installations already in operation and only outside the european union, so as not to create distortions of competition. but regardless of the fact that the committee voted very narrowly against it, we must nevertheless take this matter very carefully into account in the vote tomorrow, because we should not tolerate any distortion of competition, especially since we have only recently discussed and adopted the directive on the internal market for electricity and also for gas.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a few words on the support measures: it is true that in recent decades a great deal of money has been invested in the promotion of nuclear energy, as indeed today in the promotion of renewable energies. i think that's right. if we convert this to kilowatt hours, the figure for nuclear energy is in the third place after the decimal point, while for renewable energy it is in the double digits of euro cents. i'm not saying i'm against it, i'm just trying to make the relationship clear. the question of euratom bonds is likely to be raised tomorrow: should we support nuclear power stations under construction or in operation? just this: we are indirectly promoting nuclear energy in russia by buying more and more gas from russia. russia will not be able to supply much of this gas in the future unless it saves gas at home, and this gas will be replaced in russia by electricity from coal-fired power stations and nuclear power stations under construction. we should perhaps think about this when we talk about an energy strategy in europe. we are improving our statistics on co2 emissions, which is true because we use more gas, but elsewhere coal plants are producing more co2 or nuclear power plants are being promoted. this is another factor to consider, and it shows that our own energy strategy is not always coherent. i am in favour of approving these euratom bonds for the simple reason of increasing security. the council of ministers has therefore increased the appropriations for euratom bonds after chernobyl. i think that argument still holds true today.
- the next item is the decision on the request for urgency:proposal for a council decision on the special tariff arrangements for the french overseas departments and the extension of decision 89/688/eec (com (2003) 792 - c5-0656/2003 - 2003/0308 (cns)). the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism has already adopted a report on this subject.
- mrs sudre, the question is whether the content of this proposal can be voted on legally on thursday. we shall now proceed to the vote on the request for urgency. documents received: see minutes.
- the next item is the report (a5-0484/2003) by mr herzog, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the green paper on the universal service (com (2003) 270 - 2003/2152 (ini)).
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission is not i should like to begin by thanking mr herzog very warmly. he had a difficult job and as a reporter with a clear left-wing political opinion, it was not always easy for him to articulate his views. he has shown a very high degree of cooperation. i would like to say this in advance, because we are very far apart on the fundamental questions of content. i am speaking as rapporteur for the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and industry. the committee on budgets, by a large majority, made a recommendation which was largely accepted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the main lines of this recommendation are as follows: firstly, the definition is a matter for the member states. we do not need a european model, but the member states or the subdivisions they have appointed are responsible. secondly, the debate we are having is not about calling into question the sectoral liberalisation efforts, but we believe that this liberalisation in the internal market has been very successful overall - with some concessions - and should not be called into question by a european framework legislation. thirdly, we discussed the legal framework. on 13 november 2001 we called for a framework directive based on the internal market article. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. commissioner lamy, you have just beautifully outlined the possibilities: the framework directive, the white paper, guidelines, exemptions from notification, etc. we have been discussing this for over three years and the commission has not been able to give us any substantive information about our different legal options. as beautiful as what we heard from you today sounds, i do not think the commission has done its homework. we have been discussing this for so long, not least because there have been catalogues of questions but no solutions. that is why our group believes that we must follow the green paper as soon as possible with a white paper in which the commission finally gives its approval, in which it discusses the legal aspects of the framework directive, in which it clarifies what alternative options are available. we have been waiting for this for two years and we can only encourage you not only to start but to put forward concrete proposals as soon as possible after the decision on wednesday. one last point: these are controversial issues, such as water supply and individual regions. of course, there are local services which will continue to be provided exclusively by local authorities. we are not talking about liberalising markets that are not suitable for this, but we are saying that everyone can decide whether to do it on their own or whether to give it to others. but if he gives it to a third party, then he has to write it out so that it's given openly and transparently. that is the consensus we have reached and i hope that after the opinion we have formed today we can adopt the whole of the herzog report tomorrow. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i too would like to thank mr herzog for his cooperation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what was the starting point of this subject? the commission has a monopoly on decision-making in the field of public services and has taken up these issues more intensively in recent years. the commission also has a monopoly on competition law. we have just said that the european parliament should have greater powers in this area in the light of the constitutional treaty. that is why we were in favour of a framework directive in the first place. but we must also ask ourselves questions of substance in the debate on the framework directive. can we solve the problems of competition law? the epp group has concluded that the framework directive as such is not suitable for this. and those who advocate it must constantly ask themselves what should be in such a framework directive. the basis for the discussion on welfare is european competition law in the internal market, but welfare is also defined subsidiarily in the member states or even in the regions and municipalities. we do not want to see the future of social protection defined at european level, either in a framework directive or in the constitutional treaty. we are in favour of municipal responsibility, and local competition can be introduced through the tendering process in cooperation with private parties. but the future eu of 25 is too different for us to want to regulate this concept at european level. that is why we say no to a framework directive, yes to municipal responsibility. this is particularly true of water supply. the commission should first of all explain and prove that competition is positive in the postal sector, public transport and other areas such as energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the debate on the green paper shows, not for the first time, but for the first time, that services of general interest, their provision and their design are more than ever in the spotlight, both in political debates and in terms of the concerns of european citizens about access to basic services. for us, as the socialist group in this parliament, they are an indispensable part of a european social model, and i say explicitly that they are an essential part of a european social model, because the point is not to develop a european model of social provision. they are an essential element of a european social model with objectives common to all european societies. they play a crucial role in improving the quality of life for all citizens and in overcoming economic stagnation, social exclusion and isolation. and i'm going to try and clear up a misunderstanding. it is not that we have markets and competition on the one hand and social services on the other. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. but it must be recognised that there are also situations where the market does not provide such services efficiently, and then the democratic community must be able to ensure that it can still provide such services outside of market mechanisms. and the point of this interplay is that we need a little bit more legal clarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. philippe herzog has really done everything he could to reach a compromise, he has deviated from his own position in important areas even as rapporteur, and i find it somewhat regrettable that this achievement, this attempt to reach a consensus here, has not been simply and poignantly honoured by parts of the house. we therefore support the report because we need it from the point of view of legal certainty, of a common legal framework for these issues. but above all we want the european parliament to be involved. i would like to say something about mr langen, who said that the epp group had by now agreed that it did not want to have a framework directive because article 95 does not allow it. i don't think so at all! you have chosen not to have it because you, politically, do not want it any more. for whatever reason, that can be understood, it can also be left alone, but do not tell me that we do not have a proper legal basis and that is why we cannot do that! we've never been bothered by that, and rightly so! if we wanted to achieve something politically, we found a legal basis for it. the commission is a master at this, and we can help it to find a suitable legal basis. that is not at all a question, and we want that, but parliament's participation must be guaranteed! the legal framework of this kind, of course, needs content, and i would urge that in future we should discuss more about content and less about any legal basis. we should discuss this. there are a number of points which need to be anchored in such a legal framework. i would like to mention six in particular: the objectives of the framework directive, as i have already said, the need to give the operators legal certainty in the application of community law to their activities. it is clear that there is no disagreement that the concrete definition, design, organisation and financing of services of general interest is the responsibility of the member states and their subdivisions, so that where the municipalities have the corresponding competence, it is of course the responsibility of the municipalities. and so it is not desirable to have a uniform, comprehensive european definition, but there are a few standards and a few criteria which are of course the same and which must also be embedded in it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the services provided are not over-compensated. we must concentrate much more than in the past on the essential question: when is it an economic activity and when is it a non-economic activity? this is the basis for determining whether the competition rules, whether the internal market rules are applied or not, and in this area, i think we should take the discussion forward. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i support all those who share my view that the provision of social services is primarily for the common good. these are benefits which must be guaranteed to the citizens. this is our idea of a european model of society. the commission has therefore decided to make the provision of these services primarily a matter for local and regional authorities, rather than a matter for the commission. it is the commission's task to ensure that they are possible in the local authorities, that they are protected there. the commission must defend the provision of public services in the gats negotiations and ensure that local authorities have the freedom to provide these services to citizens in the context of social justice, solidarity and territorial cohesion. it is the commission's task to set the framework in such a way that the benefits of public services are protected.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m. the written declaration (article 120)
- the next item is the report (a5-0471/2003) by mrs almeida garrett, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the communication from the commission entitled 'a framework for european regulatory bodies' (com (2002) 718 - 2003/2089 (ini)).
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. the commission is not as the permanent rapporteur for the agencies, i have the following budgetary aspects to add to the opinion on this project, which is being examined in the committee on constitutional affairs. firstly, the seat of the regulatory agency should be set close to the commission for cost reasons. secondly, the tasks of the regulatory agencies should be limited to the creation of secondary legislation in connection with initiatives of the commission and approved by the budgetary authority. thirdly, i think it is important that the autonomy of the new regulatory agencies be exercised under the direct control of the commission and that they be subject to political control by the european parliament. fourthly, it is also intended to provide that all the provisions of the financial regulation and the staff regulations apply to the regulatory agencies. fifthly, before submitting a legislative proposal to establish a regulatory agency, the commission should provide an estimate of the budgetary and profitability impact and make concrete proposals for the redeployment and management of human resources. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu should have the most modern administration in the world, said commission president romano prodi, and we agree with him. to achieve this, however, all administrative units must be modernised, not only the commission's headquarters but also the subordinate services, the agencies. i also see that there is a lot of growth in the way the eu agencies are set up, organised and controlled. there is too little transparency, and in many cases there is neither the necessary efficiency nor adequate control. and that's why we need a new base for future agencies. the parliament's report calls for the establishment of an agency by law, through the codecision procedure. it must become the norm in future that the commission, parliament and the council are involved in this decision. the seat of the agency shall also form part of that constituent act. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. that was a mourning play! this must not happen again and the criteria for the seat must be the competence and cost-effectiveness of such a choice. we need to reduce the number of agency models. there's no way we have 15 agencies and 12 guys to do this. and these agencies are under the commission. it may also appoint the director of these agencies. in conclusion, i would like to thank mrs almeida garrett for this report and hope that it will be adopted. (applause from the centre)
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the commission statement on the prospects for the doha programme following the meeting of the wto general council on 15 december 2003.
- once a pepper is always a pepper, mrs plooij-van gorsel!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if we, as the epp-ed group, support the two commissioners in their negotiating position today, it means that we are of course also in favour of everyone taking action when negotiations on agriculture are held, of negotiations actually taking place and of the others not only announcing but also implementing their reforms in parallel with us. that's the first point. the second point is that if we support the commission and the council in their mandate, it also means that we as the european parliament must remain consistent. it is not the case that we have a large majority here supporting the commission and on the other hand in the joint assembly the same group and the same rapporteur are preparing reports which are diametrically opposed to what we have been advocating in relation to the wto. i am referring to the negotiations on the regional partnership agreements, and the same principles must apply, including, for example, the singapore issues. the opening up of markets on both sides and, of course, the special treatment of our acp friends is very important to us. we cannot, however, speak with two tongues, and we as the epp and perhaps also with other colleagues who form a majority in the european parliament will make sure that we are consistent in this. the third point: we must try, when we activate our parliamentary dimension, to play an important leading role as the european parliament, involving our partners in the american congress again and again, however difficult this may be. they are also our major trading partners, and we do not want to be dragged along by the indians and the chinese.
- since it is time for the vote, we adjourn the debate, which will resume this afternoon.
the rapporteur. the commission is not i'm sorry i didn't react quickly enough. i would like to withdraw my name from the breyer report because the decision of the majority of parliament to support nuclear power stations under construction in the eu and outside the eu is completely diametrically opposed to my position. i therefore ask you to put it in the minutes that i wish to resign as rapporteur of this report after this vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner lamy and commissioner fischler! i would like to take up two comments made this morning by the two commissioners. commissioner lamy has spoken about the fact that we are now in the process of negotiating, so to speak, the transition from the technical phase to the political phase, after a quasi-agreement was reached at civil servant level in december on how to continue negotiations, but it is still not clear how the political negotiators will now be able to actually translate this into an active working calendar. and the second comment, which i also found very interesting, came from commissioner fischler. he said we'd do it, and then his lead came through, but not at any price. and that, of course, is a reference to the european agenda and the question of how we can bring our ideas into the wto negotiations. what does this mean, if i may ask the two commissioners, in concrete terms? we're going to have a difficult election year next year, we've got you two for the first half of the year, then it's going to be critical, then you're both gone, so to speak. we don't know who's coming. on the american side, it looks similar -- bob zoellick is not coming back either -- and geostrategically, it's not easy either, if we look at the constellation in india, if we look at china, if we look at brazil. so my question to you both is, what do you expect to happen next? and how do you prepare for that? what does your calendar look like in january, february, march, and when do you think this political phase will actually happen? question two: where is the pain threshold? where is it really for us? where's the "not at all costs"? are these the singapore questions? i don't think he is. is it the farming? maybe, but i guess... i have seen the draft working document on the sugar market regulation. will you, commissioner, be presenting a final draft before the end of your term of office? see, now where's our pain threshold? i think if we know a little bit more, then maybe we can also steer the process -- as you all know, and as we all want to -- a little bit more actively. in this context, allow me to put a final question to the two commissioners: how do you really assess the latest move by bob zoellick? i have heard very briefly: positive, but can you say in detail how positive?
commission. mr president, the magnitude of the bam earthquake and the degree of devastation that it caused prompted an appeal from the iranian authorities for international assistance and a massive international and european response within hours of the disaster occurring. the toll has now risen to 30 000 dead, with a similar number of people injured, 45 000 homeless, and 85% of bam destroyed. the commission has been active in providing emergency humanitarian assistance in coordinating the efforts of search-and-rescue teams from eu member states and from the eea, candidate and accession countries. on saturday 27 december 2003, the commission, through its humanitarian aid office echo, adopted a primary emergency decision for eur 2.3 million to address the most urgent needs arising from the earthquake. eur 1 452 129 were granted to the red cross family – the international federation of the red cross and red crescent societies, the finnish red cross and the german red cross – to support the relief efforts of the iranian red crescent society with the provision of food parcels, tents, blankets, heaters, kitchen sets and hygienic kits, and to address health needs through the establishment of a field hospital and basic health units. another eur 813 577 were allocated to the comité d’aide médicale and médecins du monde for health care and related activities, and finally eur 34 294 were provided to télécoms sans frontières to set up a satellite-based communication network to facilitate communication and coordination between the relief agencies working in the disaster region. alongside the humanitarian aid response, the eu civil protection monitoring and information centre, hosted by the commission, had initiated, after agreement from the iranian authorities, the dispatch of urgent response teams. immediately after the earthquake, in the morning of 26 december, the eu civil protection monitoring and information centre offered assistance to iran and distributed an advance warning to its 30 contact points in countries participating in the civil protection cooperation mechanism. on 26 december, the first teams left their respective countries and by 27 december, the eu coordination of the search and rescue efforts, headed by the italian civil protection unit, was operational in bam. in total, 18 countries participated in this joint effort with assistance ranging from search and rescue teams – sniffer dogs, firefighters and other specialists – to the provision of relief items – field hospitals and other equipment. as the search-and-rescue phase of the emergency response came to an end, the attention shifted to ensuring that the basic humanitarian needs of the survivors of the earthquake are covered in the next few months. on 8 january 2004, both the international federation of the red cross and the red crescent and the united nations office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs launched appeals to assist in the relief and recovery response in bam. following a first assessment mission which took place between 29 and 31 december, echo dispatched a second experts’ mission to bam between 5 and 8 january to review the situation, assess further needs and coordinate with the other agencies present on the ground. as a result of this second assessment, a number of sectors stand out as priority areas for intervention: health; sanitation and hygiene; psychosocial support and tracing; and a focus on vulnerable groups, notably children and the elderly. on the basis of its own assessments and of the un and red cross appeals, the commission is considering taking a second decision in favour of the victims of the bam earthquake in the next few weeks. by responding as we did, we were able to use the first eur 2.3 million to cover all the requests that we had at the time and can now consider new requests. it is extremely important that the international community be able to do something that goes beyond the very immediate assistance required in situations such as this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the earthquake of december 26 almost completely destroyed the city of bam. the scale of the destruction and the resulting human suffering have shocked us all deeply. but there is one positive aspect to this tragedy: the immediate, rapid and comprehensive aid from around the world, including the eu, its member states and also the us, which iran has accepted; the only thing that was not accepted was the help from israel. i would like to thank the commission for its work on 27 december. this shows the iranian government, but above all the people, how great is the human solidarity with them, regardless of the political relations with that country. and i am convinced that this is also a response to the fact that iran has lived up to the expectations of the world community on the important issue of signing the additional protocol to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. and yet, there is still much ground for criticism on our part, for example in the human rights situation, although we welcome the fact that the human rights dialogue with the country has started. i myself attended the last meeting in brussels, and it was an open dialogue, not only between the eu delegation and the iranian side, but also within the iranian delegation. but already last autumn we in the european parliament expressed our fears that before the february elections there might be a crackdown on reform-minded parliamentarians. and that 's what this week has unfortunately come to: more than 80 sitting members and hundreds of candidates have been rejected by the guardian council, including the main interlocutor and host of a european parliament delegation in iran, the chairman of the foreign affairs committee, mr mirdamadi, who was here with a delegation last year. i think we should make it clear that just as we express human solidarity in the face of natural disasters, we must also express political solidarity with the reformist forces in iran, which are striving for more democracy and freer elections within the limited framework that currently exists there. this is an important point and i also assume that the high representative of the european council, mr solana, who is currently in iran, will also make a clear statement on this. i think it would be a wrong signal if we as the european union were to ignore this in this specific situation, to practice business as usual politics and thus discourage those who want to hold a relatively free election there in february, next month. the european union must not only show solidarity with the victims of bam, but also with the reformists in iran.
in writing. it is a fact that tuna is the most important product not only for the community but also for the world canning industry. some community countries have traditionally had a strong position in the tuna sector and are responsive to market changes. the hearing in the committee on fisheries and the statements made by my colleague mr varela make it clear that it is time to act. recently, third countries, especially from asia, have been trying to secure a large share of the lucrative tuna market. the rise of non-european competitors is also, in my view, due to their considerable cost advantage over the community fleet. european shipowners must comply with community legislation on hygiene, monitoring of fishing activities, production conditions, environmental protection and social protection of workers. it's important and it's the right thing to do, but it costs money. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not displaced by the fishermen's fleet. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. 3. compliance with hygiene and health rules must be an absolute requirement for third countries wishing to place their products on the eu market; the customs duties on canned tuna must be maintained until import and trade barriers are removed. the bottom line is that the eu must devise a coordinated strategy at international level.
the commission has already done so. i would like to welcome very warmly your second statement, which calls on the commission to clarify the procedural issues of budgetary control before the court of justice. the euro - let us say this here - has so far, in the five years we can look back, had a much higher stability than the d-mark. the euro, on the other hand, is a difficult currency, because it has not one but 15 national financial and economic policies on its side, it has an open circle of participants, and it is a young currency. it is all the more important to ensure that article 104 of the treaty and the accompanying stability pact are strictly observed, and the eight countries and the citizens who have done their homework have a right to rely on them. it is therefore right that the commission clarifies these rights and calls for budgetary discipline. this alone serves to build confidence in this new currency, on which we still have a lot of work to do. thank you for your decision.
commission. madam president, i would like to begin by congratulating parliament on the excellent progress that it has made towards bringing this technically rather complex proposal to a successful conclusion. the second reading has proceeded very rapidly despite the number of issues that remained to be resolved. i would particularly like to thank the rapporteur, mr nobilia, for the special effort he has made, personally, in this respect. the commission is pleased that this proposal is now entering its final stages. the proposal was made with two broad aims in mind: to improve the protection provided to the environment and to consumers while, at the same time, maintaining and improving the single market in detergents. the proposal modernises the legislation on detergents in three major respects. firstly, it introduces more stringent tests for the biodegradability of surfactants. secondly, it extends the scope of the legislation to include all types of surfactants. thirdly, it introduces labelling requirements for the benefit of consumer health. it should also be recalled that this proposal simplifies eu legislation by replacing five directives and one commission recommendation by a single regulation. it is therefore genuine simplification; there is a lot of talk in this field, but not much action. the commission does, however, regret that parliament has chosen to emphasise national measures on detergents in a proposal for community legislation one of the aims of which was to expand the harmonised area and promote the single market. the proposed regulation nevertheless represents a significant step forward in terms of stricter testing and extending the legislative scope regarding surfactants, as well as better information for the consumer. these aspects are what we should concentrate on at this stage. it is in the commission's and parliament's joint interest that the text should be definitively adopted before the end of the current parliamentary term. the prospects of doing so are good if we can agree to put aside minor issues and concentrate on securing the main benefits. the commission therefore supports the compromise package that the rapporteur has proposed; this means amendments 30 to 37. consequently, the commission cannot accept any of the other amendments.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. thank you very much for the very pleasant and successful cooperation over the past years. i am glad that we have agreed on seven important compromise amendments in the final phase and i can tell you that the epp will support all seven amendments after critical consideration. i am personally very glad that we are allowed to maintain national regulations. in your country, for example, there are already substantial bans on the use of phosphates, and in mine too. i believe that this is the right way forward, that the countries which are moving forward on this issue do not now have to be reprimanded or even turn back the clock, but that they are allowed to continue their successful standards. i think this is a good sign for environmental policy, but also a good sign in particular with regard to the enlargement of the european union. the amendment with the five years - experts know what that is - will remain, but the epp will generally support the three years in the compromise. i also think it is important that the derogations in this regulation have been properly applied and i am pleased that there are virtually no exceptions in the area of transposition obligations. i am also glad that we have courageously made exceptions in other areas where we know we need exceptions, namely in the area of very special cleaning products for small and mediumsized enterprises, which have just had to find a niche and cannot use universal detergents here, but very special ones, for example in hospitals or large kitchens. the balancing of all the components of sustainability, namely ecology, economics and social issues, has, i believe, been successful here. about ten years ago, dramatic foam spills on our rivers were the catalyst for changing water policy with respect to phosphates. we have actually gone a step further. i am glad that we are no longer fixing the waste water treatment plant at the end, but that we are already introducing innovative rules in europe at the start of the process, and this is not always done by the law, dear alexander, but by using innovative tools to motivate our companies to continue working. i think we did it. one point that applies to all of us remains open: the legislator can only impose restrictions on quantities and products, but cannot regulate the handling of detergents and detergents. if the same amount of detergent is used for one kilogram as for five kilograms, then that is the actual pollution. there is still a lot to be done in the minds of european citizens - and of course in my own mind too.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to add my support for the report to my thanks to mrs sandbaek. this report is a wake-up call and a particular challenge to tackle poverty and such devastating diseases as aids, malaria and tuberculosis with far greater determination than before. my group does not underestimate the efforts of the commission. but the facts of the report speak for themselves. africa is probably the most affected. whole villages die with the people. poverty and disease are causing vast areas of land to be virtually depopulated even without war. of course, this is about concrete steps and measures to contain the diseases. but general social conditions must not be ignored. people living in poverty have no power to resist deadly diseases, nor do they have the resources to buy medicines. in armies on the run, in open fields or in tents, they become easy prey to pestilences. in a market dominated by profit, it is difficult to provide low-cost, high-quality medicines in developing countries. but it is in this area that policy must recognize its responsibility and do more to meet it. unfortunately, wto conferences are aimed more at the benefit of large monopolies than at the much needed stable and comprehensive provision of services. and if you ignore the signals of the world social forum, you will hear them farther than mumbai. in view of this need, which has its roots in colonial times, it is not surprising, but only good and reasonable, that the former colonies should continue to demand compensation from the colonial powers of the time. the union, the commission and parliament, as the report shows, are also challenged to make new efforts.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to limit myself to a few comments on the subject of hiv/aids. although much has been done, it is still not enough, and it will be more expensive in the long run to do nothing than to provide massive aid now with a sum that may seem high to us. hiv/aids is not just a health problem. hiv/aids is a threat to society as a whole. the death of aids is destroying the modest achievements of the past. in a number of countries in sub-saharan africa, life expectancy is falling dramatically. more and more men and women of working age are dying, and this is leading to educational deficits, because there are regions where more teachers are dying of aids than can be trained as new teachers. this lowers the standard of education. this effect is compounded by the fact that young girls are no longer able to go to school because they have to care for their parents who have aids. for example, in swaziland, girls' school attendance has declined by 36 percent. hiv/aids also causes food shortages and hunger, as the infected rural population can only harvest their fields to a limited extent or not at all. in burkina faso, agricultural production has therefore declined by almost a fifth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. they make it clear that hiv/aids is adding to the misery of the poor beyond measure, but in other words, every euro spent on prevention, treatment and health infrastructure pays off, not only for the benefit of individuals, but also as an economic and social boost. the requested billion is more than well spent.
i have to say, madam president, i should like to begin by thanking mr bébéar for his excellent own-initiative report. the partnership for africa's development is an ambitious programme and we should congratulate our african partners on it, because it is a programme of africans for africans. the concept has been in the world for over two years now and it is time that the mechanisms should be put into operation after the establishment of the african union and after the first meeting of the pan-african parliament scheduled for the third week of march. i would like to refer in particular to the african peer review mechanism and shed more light on it. but i have the impression that some of those who developed it are afraid of their own courage. the commissioner spoke earlier of the heroes of nepad, who are the cowards of nepad, because the establishment of principles such as good governance and human rights also means implementing them. and implementation means concrete control and evaluation of what you have committed to. we must, unfortunately, note that the worst in africa, such as mr mugabe in zimbabwe, of course, do not submit to this mechanism in the first place. in total, only 16 out of over 50 countries have so far been subject to this mechanism. this is precisely the point where i believe we should be making a positive contribution, whether it be the eu or the g8. the latter had already committed themselves to an action plan for africa in 2002. we should give our support especially to those who actually improve their standards and submit to this mechanism in practice. it is only in this way that we can treat africa individually and not as a unit, as the commissioner has just lamented. to this end, the eu, but also the g8, should specify their timetable for the implementation of their commitments, which they have now accepted in the abstract, then good results can also be expected in africa.
i have to say, madam president, most of the african countries which have adopted the nepad initiative are acp countries. this gives the commission the opportunity to accompany the nepad initiative in partnership within the framework of acp cooperation, and it gives the european parliament the opportunity to maintain a regular dialogue with the countries concerned in the framework of the joint parliamentary assembly on the needs and also on the successes. the new parliamentary committees of the acp assembly provide an excellent forum for this, where problems can also be addressed in the form of critical solidarity. the nepad countries have undoubtedly laid the foundations for successful development in their own right. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the peace process in crisis areas is a prerequisite for improving living conditions in large parts of africa. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on poverty reduction and its implementation in the member states. the only way to ensure that this can be achieved is if the political authorities are able to win the support of civil society. this means that the active and democratic participation of the relevant groups of civil society, non-governmental organisations as well as political bodies and associations, trade unions as well as employers' organisations, churches as well as cultural associations and educational institutions, to name a few, is required. the equal participation of women in the development of projects and strategies for development is particularly necessary, since it is they who organise daily life and often have to ensure the survival of their families. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to address a particular issue where the protection of cultural diversity has been lacking in the way that parliament wants it to be and will continue to be lacking, namely the concentration of the electronic media, especially television, which is known to have the most decisive influence on the formation of public opinion. the preservation of media diversity is also an important element of the protection of cultural diversity and cultural identity. we cannot leave this protection to the european judiciary alone, as the italian constitutional court's judgment today is very welcome. i therefore have a strong expectation that the international legal instrument we are hoping for will provide guidelines which will help to ensure that media diversity is actually preserved. speaking of wars and battles, commissioner, we have a decisive battlefield here. without diminishing your other merits, we have been left without troops in this field, and that gives the whole thing a bitter aftertaste. the diversity of opinion and pluralism in the media is a great asset, and there are many positive examples of this in europe, but we are also increasingly exposed to dangers. that is why the european parliament has for years repeatedly, but unfortunately in vain, called for a directive to limit media concentrations. i would like to urge such a measure again today. my group therefore supports a supplementary motion by mrs fraisse which is precisely what she is advocating and deserves the support of this house. i hope that the commission will support this.
council. a uachtaráin, a chomhaltaí onóracha de pharlaimint na heorpa, a uachtaráin an choimisiúin, a dhaoine uaisle, is onóir agus cúis áthais domsa a bheith anseo inniu chun na tosaíochtaí d’uachtaránacht na héireann a chur i bhur láthair. mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, it is both an honour and a pleasure to be here today to present to you the priorities for the irish presidency. before i make this presentation, may i thank you for the reception you gave the president of ireland, mrs mary mcaleese, during her visit last november. your warm welcome to her was greatly appreciated in ireland. we have chosen 'europeans – working together' as the theme of our presidency. it is a theme which captures a vision of the people of the european union working as a partnership, striving together to achieve our common goals and objectives. we need the cooperation of everybody to achieve our ambitions. i know that i can count on the members of the european parliament to work with us during our term for the greater good of the european union. this is ireland’s sixth presidency. we are taking on our task at an historic and challenging time, but we have prepared well for what lies ahead. the overriding objective of our presidency is to secure outcomes which have a positive impact on the lives of europe’s people. like every presidency, we aim to write another chapter in the success story that is the european union. this task deserves our full attention and we each have a part to play. parliament is unique among the institutions in having a direct mandate from the people. it is central to an effective union which is successful and which delivers. it goes without saying that a good relationship between the council and parliament is vital to the union’s success. the elections in june mean that the time in which we can work together will be shorter than usual. as a presidency, therefore, we are totally committed to working intensively with parliament at all levels so that our interaction is as constructive and productive as it can be. president pat cox – of whose leadership of parliament we in ireland are enormously proud – has assured me that you stand ready to play your full part. there is important work to be done. as europeans working together, we must ensure that the union can take advantage of the global economic recovery. we must create an environment which fosters more and better jobs for our people. we must take the measures necessary to allow our citizens to live and move freely throughout the european union in safety and security. and we must ensure that the union can play a positive and constructive role in the world. the irish presidency is the first to see the full implementation of the seville european council decisions aimed at ensuring a more coherent and strategic approach to our work. our programme is, therefore, consistent with and reflects the priorities in the annual operational programme for 2004, prepared with the future dutch presidency. it is also consistent with the multiannual strategic programme for 2004-2006. the preparation of the annual and multiannual programmes with the netherlands and with the four presidencies to follow has been both an innovation and a practical example of 'europeans – working together'. this is a time of historic change for the union. we must be prepared for the future. we want a union that is more democratic, more accountable, more transparent and more effective. we must ensure that the union is, and is seen to be, as close as possible to its citizens. a new constitution is fundamental to this. the european convention did outstanding work in bringing forward an excellent draft text. i pay warm tribute to all who contributed to its proceedings. in particular, i pay tribute to the representatives of the european parliament who brought to the convention not only great vitality, but also great insight. i fully understand the importance parliament attaches to bringing the constitutional project to a successful and early conclusion. in my contacts with many of you here in parliament since the brussels european council, we have made clear our strong support for a speedy and successful outcome to the intergovernmental conference. (applause) you may rest assured that i have heard that message and i share your view. i thank the italian presidency for the good work it did during its term, and i want to thank it for the support and assistance it has given to our presidency. we all hoped that agreement could be reached last month and were disappointed when it was not. it now falls to ireland to try to make further progress. we have taken up this challenge and we will do all in our power to see it through. we are determined to do whatever we can to encourage and facilitate the earliest possible agreement. it remains to be seen whether this will prove possible in our presidency. we know what the outstanding issues are. various possible solutions have been proposed. but ultimately, if we are to arrive at the necessary compromises, what is needed is sufficient collective political will. i am convinced that this is profoundly in the interests of the union and its citizens, and indeed of the member states individually – new and old, large and small. a new constitution would help the union respond to the demands and expectations of its citizens. it would help the union play a more coherent and effective role in the wider world. on the other hand, excessive delay will damage our credibility and weaken our standing. stalemate is not an option any of us can contemplate. i have undertaken to consult intensely and to make a report to the march european council. that process of consultation is well under way. i have spoken to many of my colleagues in the european council already. all of them have indicated their commitment to helping us find a way forward. i will continue to explore with them how and when this can be achieved. i want to be able to make the fullest possible report in march. i can assure parliament that if my consultations suggest that there is a real prospect of agreement, i will immediately move to seize the opportunity. i pledge to you again that the irish presidency will spare no effort to make progress and to facilitate consensus during our term in office. (applause) this issue will command the highest priority under our presidency. the negotiations on the future financial perspectives will be critically important for the future shape and direction of the enlarged union. we also look forward to initiating discussions once the commission communication is tabled later this month. our aim as the presidency will be to seek initial reactions from member states and we will be working to secure agreement at the spring european council on the calendar and process for the negotiations. the irish presidency has begun in a union of 15 member states and will end in a union of 25. it is a particular privilege to hold the presidency at a time when history is being made. we greatly look forward to welcoming the new members of the family at an official ceremony in dublin on 1 may. we plan to make this a real welcome in ireland. community cultural events are being organised and real local involvement and international exchange will occur. we believe that the diversity of europe’s cultural heritage is something to be shared and celebrated. we want the formal enlargement of the european union to be as smooth and successful as possible. making enlargement work is of the greatest possible importance to us. integrating the new member states and ensuring that the council continues to function effectively will be a high priority. we will press forward with the future enlargement agenda. we will prioritise work in relation to romania and bulgaria with the aim of concluding negotiations this year. we also welcome turkey’s efforts to fulfil the necessary criteria with a view to a decision to be taken at the european council next december. i am convinced that the accession of cyprus continues to provide the context for a comprehensive settlement, which would enable the accession of a united island on 1 may. we welcome the signs of progress in recent days. as the presidency, we will support fully the central role of the united nations secretary-general in this process. i urge all parties in the period ahead to demonstrate conclusively their commitment to negotiating a settlement on the basis of his proposals. the newly enlarged union must work for all its people. that is why the irish presidency has placed sustainable growth and social cohesion at the very centre of its work programme. four years ago in lisbon, we agreed on the goal of making the european union the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world. the lisbon agenda is the best mechanism for achieving this goal in a demanding and competitive global context. it is the means by which the member states and the european institutions can work together to develop the european economy, to create more employment, to ensure social protection and to invest in a sustainable future for us all. next year, we will be half way towards the 2010 target date set at the lisbon european council in march 2000. we have achieved a great deal already. we have seen advances in the areas of research and development, financial services, liberalisation of energy markets, telecommunications, environmental protection and regulatory reform. it is now much easier for workers and students to move around the european union, to access jobs and education; it is easier to set up and run a small business; consumers are already enjoying cheaper telephone calls; significant studies have been made in terms of equality and social protection. and europe’s commitment to the environment means a cleaner and safer world for our children and our grandchildren. despite these achievements, it is increasingly clear that unless we increase momentum, we will not make europe the most competitive economy in the world by 2010. we intend to use the spring european council this year to give renewed focus and impetus to the lisbon agenda. we look forward in this context to the publication next week of the commission's report on the spring european council. positive signs of economic progress are emerging, both in europe and internationally. it is imperative that we make the most of this. we must increase our efforts to implement at individual member state level those reforms and legislative changes already agreed, if we are to reap the full social and economic benefits. we must also continue to implement further reforms. maintaining the status quo will not improve europe's economic standing, competitiveness or employment rates. i have written to you, mr president, and to my colleagues in the european council, setting out my proposed approach and the key elements of the lisbon agenda, on which i intend to focus at the spring european council. our primary focus is clear: sustainable growth and high-quality employment are our twin priorities. it is my intention that, during the spring european council, we will have a real debate on the most pressing economic and social challenges facing europe. investment in physical and human capital, supporting higher rates of growth across the european union economy and, equally, continuing to maintain macroeconomic stability are just some of the challenges. a central challenge facing europe continues to be competitiveness. while the internal market has indeed been one of the union’s most important achievements, we see the further development of the services sector as the key motor of growth and job creation. perhaps the greatest challenge facing europe, however, is the pressing need to create more and better employment. we welcome the focus and the practical, country-specific messages in the report of the employment taskforce which was chaired by mr wim kok. building on the employment guidelines, we will work with our european partners, parliament and the commission, to ensure that real progress is made. social dialogue will greatly assist us in addressing these challenges. during our presidency, i look forward to working with the european social partners, through the tripartite social summit in march and in other ways, to boost their involvement in achieving the overall lisbon goal. before leaving the lisbon agenda, i also want to point out that 2005 will offer a unique opportunity for a mid-point review of the overall process. how to stay on course to realise the lisbon goal in the new climate represents a very considerable challenge. the irish presidency will contribute to the process of setting up a meaningful evaluation of the agenda, in cooperation with our partners, including the incoming presidency. over the past 50 years, we in europe have created an area of peace and prosperity. we have also created a single market where our people can trade and do business without barriers. we must ensure that the freedoms we enjoy are not exploited by criminal elements for illegal gains. as a presidency, ireland will work for the greatest levels of freedom, security and safety for all the people of the european union. in the justice and home affairs area, we will focus on the delivery of the outstanding requirements under the amsterdam treaty and the broader tampere programme, as updated by subsequent european councils. this will involve a wide-ranging agenda including asylum, immigration, police, judicial cooperation in criminal matters and civil law cooperation. the june european council is likely to initiate an assessment of the achievements of the tampere programme, with a view to launching a further development of the union’s justice and home affairs policies. we will also focus on practical police cooperation. we will place emphasis on the fight against drugs and organised crime and on combating illegal immigration. the range of foreign policy issues that the union now deals with and the breadth and intensity of the union’s contacts with its partners around the globe is truly extensive. the european union is, in every sense, a global player. during our presidency, we will focus on a number of key areas, as well as ensuring the effective conduct of the union’s international commitments. we are committed to working ever more closely with the united nations. we want in particular to support the un secretary-general's reform effort and will work to shape a positive and progressive european union input into the high-level panel on threats, challenges and change. i welcome parliament's decision to award the sakharov prize to the secretary-general of the un. mr kofi annan's participation in the plenary session of the european parliament later this month sends out a clear message. that message is that effective multilateralism is a core value which informs the union’s foreign policy. the council will be represented by foreign minister cowen on this important occasion. we will also work to advance eu-un cooperation in crisis management. the european union and the united nations are natural partners. under the italian presidency, the union signed a declaration with the un on cooperation in crisis management. the challenge for our presidency is to put this declaration into practice. european security and defence policy is how the union's contribution to conflict prevention and crisis management. as a presidency, we will also progress work on the union's crisis management capabilities. europe will work with the world community to fight the spread of weapons of mass destruction and to promote disarmament. our presidency will be practical and imaginative in promoting human rights around the globe. during our presidency, we will adopt the eu guidelines to support human rights defenders. we also intend to implement the eu´s strategy on children in armed conflict. last year saw serious tensions and disagreement over iraq, both across the atlantic and indeed within europe. the world is a better and a safer place when the european union and the united states work together, pooling their considerable energy and resources to achieve our shared goals based on our shared values. the united states has stressed the importance it attaches to working with key partners, including europe. we will continue to focus eu-us relations on what we can and should achieve together. our aim will be to consult and cooperate with the united states on the broad range of issues, both political and economic, that face us all. we intend to work particularly closely with the united states on areas such as the middle east, iraq, afghanistan and effective multilateralism, as well as on the extensive trade and economic agenda. we will not always see eye to eye, but we can and should concentrate on those areas where our cooperation is to the mutual benefit of our citizens and the wider international community. the european union values its relationship with the americas as a whole. this is reflected in the fact that the european union will have summit meetings with the us, with canada, with latin american and caribbean countries during our presidency. these meetings will provide key opportunities to strengthen our relationships. in the middle east, we will continue to promote the implementation of the roadmap as the basis for progress towards a just and lasting two-state solution. our participation in the quartet will be based on this principle and we will work closely with our partners in an effort to move the peace process forward. ireland’s minister for foreign affairs, mr brian cowen, in his capacity as president of the general affairs and external relations council, travels to the middle east this evening. enlargement gives renewed impetus to the union’s strategic relationship with russia. our security and well-being are increasingly intertwined and we need to work effectively together. the eu-russia summit during our presidency is an opportunity to set a course for our future relationship. in the conflict prevention area, we want to focus, in particular, on the role of non-governmental organisations and civil society in conflict prevention. we also want to integrate support for conflict prevention into our engagement and dialogue with the rest of the world. this is particularly relevant in the case of africa. there are 290 million people living below the poverty line in sub-saharan africa. an estimated 30 million are infected with hiv/aids. over a dozen conflict situations make this humanitarian crisis even worse. we must work with our african partners to find comprehensive solutions to these problems. our overriding approach as a presidency will be to support african-led initiatives to tackle the enormous challenges the continent faces. i would like to see greater convergence between foreign and development policy and this will form part of our approach as a presidency. the union has a critical role to play in responding to major developing challenges such as poverty alleviation, the fight against infectious diseases and environmental degradation. the union must set an example in relation to the progress towards the millennium development goals and the creation of a fairer and more stable world order. we also need to extend to our near neighbours the conditions of security, stability and prosperity that we enjoy in the european union. after enlargement on 1 may, there will be 385 million people living in the countries on the external land and sea borders of the union. through our european neighbourhood initiative, we will enhance relations with those countries to the east and south on the basis of the values of democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law. the union has reached a shared understanding with the countries of the western balkans that their future lies within the european union. as a presidency, we are committed to the full implementation of the agenda agreed last june at the eu-western balkans summit in thessaloniki. the rate at which progress is made now depends on the democratically elected governments of the region. the union will strongly support their efforts as they pursue wide-ranging and difficult reforms. we are also committed to a multilateral approach to trade policy. since cancun, the european union has been reflecting on the way forward in order to achieve a successful relaunch of the doha development agenda. a successful conclusion to the current round of trade talks is vital for long-term economic growth and development in the world. the presidency will work in the council and with the commission to achieve balanced progress in the negotiations. the union's relations with asia are a key element of our agenda. our engagement will be at all levels in the region. we will pursue political dialogue with the full range of countries, including an asia-europe meeting at foreign minister level in april. we would also hope to hold an eu-japan summit during our term. as i have already stated, the irish presidency looks forward to working closely with parliament in the coming months. it is essential that we cooperate effectively and that we get down to work immediately. there is a range of important dossiers which require close cooperation if they are to be satisfactorily progressed in the time available to us. the discussions on the members’ statute are of particular concern. i pay tribute to president cox for his personal commitment to bringing closure to these discussions. the parliament vote, in december, provides the basis for us to move forward together to achieve an agreement which has eluded our institutions for too long. the irish presidency hopes to conclude this matter rapidly and is doing all in its power to deliver a positive outcome. as we move further into the 21st century, i have no doubt that the union will continue to develop and to grow, to broaden and to deepen. the union must meet new challenges and exploit new opportunities that lie ahead. there will continue to be healthy debate and differing perspectives among us. we will continue to work to accommodate this enriching diversity. we must tackle these challenges and embrace these opportunities together, united by our shared interest in the success of the union. the founding fathers were inspired by the dream of a future in which europeans would never again fight each other to the death over resources, over territory or over their beliefs; a future in which europeans would never again be divided from each other. this year will see that dream – a europe whole and healed – brought closer to reality. the founding fathers dreamt also of a europe in which ever-closer cooperation would deliver greater security and prosperity for its people. i stand before you as a firm believer in that dream. i come from a country where membership of the european union – a union which we have helped to shape – has enabled us to develop and to flourish to our fullest potential. i profoundly wish the same for the incoming member states. six months is not a long time. but i promise you an irish presidency that will not stint in its efforts to achieve as much as is possible in this time. i greatly look forward to cooperating closely with our partners and with the institutions of the union, especially with the european parliament. our agenda is demanding and complex. we have begun our work with ambition and with humility. we call on everyone to help us with this challenging task for the six months ahead. we know that, as europeans, our strength is our unity. we achieve more, and we are at our very best, as 'europeans – working together'. (loud applause)
president of the commission. president cox, prime minister ahern, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that nothing can better introduce this debate than a final reflection on the future, since the events that await us in the coming months will shape the course of the union for many years to come. i would remind you of the institutional appointments, such as the renewal of this parliament in mid-june and the expiry of the mandate of my commission at the end of october. the negotiations on the future financial perspective of the union are about to begin and the commission will shortly present its proposals. finally, and i come to the issues i will be addressing today, this semester marks the completion of enlargement and progress will have to be made on the constitutional treaty and our growth strategy. so, ladies and gentlemen, the good wishes we have exchanged in these days have a very special value, and i am sure that bertie ahern and his collaborators will put all their tenacity and all their skill to use to make this a successful semester. i will begin my brief presentation with enlargement. after years of meticulous preparation, this coming may day will truly be a day of celebration. i am glad that the celebrations will be centred on dublin, because we all know the joy and conviviality of the irish people. i am glad that this celebration will be directed above all to young people, from whom we have much to learn, especially in difficult times, when the momentum towards the future seems to be lacking. enlargement will bring far-reaching changes to all our institutions. on the operational side, preparatory work is under way on the commission's internal organisation, which i shall report to you on in due course. i am also intensifying my consultations with the governments of the new member states on the appointment of new commissioners. the work is proceeding very rapidly, and i can therefore confirm that at the end of february - in accordance with the advance request made by parliament - i will announce the names of the commissioners so that you can proceed with the hearings you have proposed. the aim, of course, is to integrate the new members of the college as from 1 may next, after the vote of approval by parliament. the dublin celebrations will be a symbolic moment that will open up new perspectives. this milestone on our journey is like a mountain pass: when we reach it, of course we will discover a new landscape. the final borders of the union will be seen, which will have reached its final form when it welcomes all the countries of the western balkans. from that height we will also see the new neighbours of enlarged europe, with whom we want to create, as bertie ahern said, an area of cooperation, stability, security and peace. this work has already begun thanks to the initiative of the 'circle of friends', which extends the possibility of deep and systematic cooperation with the european union from the mediterranean to russia. the european model is our proposal for relations between countries outside our continent. it's a model that is looked at by everyone with enormous interest: asia, latin america, all over the place. in recent years the world, which has become less secure, is going through a phase of profound uncertainty. i therefore welcome the call by the irish presidency for strong and effective multilateralism, respect for human rights and conflict prevention: these are the european principles. the union must strengthen its relations with the united nations and seek a broader common ground with all the players on the world stage, starting with the united states and russia, and so we are perfectly in line. we must cooperate with the member states to help the secretary-general, kofi annan, whom we shall meet in two weeks' time, to carry forward the reform of the united nations, which we want to be strong, effective and present where peace is in danger, where people need help, where human rights must be protected. the threats to security and peace in the world do not come solely from armed conflicts and movements that conduct their action through struggle. while terrorist organisations must be confronted without hesitation and made to do no harm, conflict situations must be resolved at political level. i therefore support the proposals of the irish presidency to focus the union's action on humanitarian aid, respect for human rights and the political, economic and social factors that fuel war and violence. i shall now turn briefly to the chapter on the constitutional treaty, which was the most thorny on the agenda of the half-year just ended. first of all, i should like to express my deepest satisfaction at the resumption of the work of the intergovernmental conference announced by the presidency. for my commission, the launch of the constitution is a top priority: the irish and dutch presidencies can count on our daily support. 2004 should be the year of the new european constitution. after the december summit, it is clear that the points of disagreement still on the table may not be insurmountable if the member states make a further effort to build up the consensus, which has been very broad, on the convention's proposals. if this maturation happens - and i know bertie ahern is a master of patience and persuasion - then the deal may be close. the cost of slowing down the process of integration is too high. of course, no solution is without risks, and the commission insists that we all move together towards a stronger and more shared integration. if efforts in this direction were to repeatedly fail - and i very much hope that they will not - there would certainly be no resistance to stronger solutions from anyone, but, again, this is not the historical phase in which we are now working: we are now working together to have a constitution shared by all the member states. mr president, i would like to conclude with the european actions for economic growth, to which you have made a very clear reference. your programme is rich and ambitious on this subject. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. after a few years of hardship, the economy finally seems to be improving: not in a very exciting way, but at least there's some improvement. the atmosphere is once again favourable to stimulating economic activity. this is not the place to repeat in an analytical way the objectives set out in the presidency's programme, which i guarantee the commission's full and total support for, so i will simply reiterate in a few sentences the basic vision of our strategy in this area. the spring council will continue along the path set out in the lisbon strategy, which remains the only anchor to enable european society and the european economy to maintain - not to say increase - but to maintain - prosperity, security and social justice in a globalised world. the commission will therefore make its proposals and the council will take its decisions. however, no decision can produce positive results until the decisions themselves become real policies at national level, i.e. we need harmonious cooperation between the member states. the great priorities must be knowledge and innovation, that is, one: human resources, and that's it. this is the priority. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one. we must therefore accelerate the necessary transition to the knowledge economy. if we look at the present, it is clear that our growth depends essentially on the development of human resources and knowledge. i would like to stress once again the need to create world-class research centres of excellence in europe, or rather the best in the world. they must be the concrete and vital symbol that we believe in the future, that the future - as bertie ahern said - we can imagine and we can make it. a national strategy is not enough for cutting-edge research; the european union is not a single entity, but a single entity. our continent must therefore return to what it has been for centuries: the reference point for all researchers in the world. we must put in place mechanisms to enable our young people, who are currently specialising elsewhere, to return to europe after finishing their studies. i don't need to give you analysis and data. the problem here is that hundreds of thousands of people are trained here and go elsewhere, or they are trained elsewhere and go elsewhere. so we're out of the great cycle that is the fermentation of human resources in the world: we must not forget that the european union is a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe. there 's only one measure: the european union is committed to the pursuit of excellence in research and the diffusion of culture throughout the human resources of our continent. our young people must find opportunities in europe to study, work and succeed: they have a right to. i say this not only in the interests of the young, but because their success is a condition for our own survival. this must therefore be the meaning of our policies and our commitment to respond to the expectations of the citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! the group chairmen had the opportunity just before christmas to speak to the then future irish presidency, the taoiseach, the prime minister, foreign minister brian cowen and the minister for europe, mr dick roche, and i can tell you that it was professional, it was efficient and it was friendly. i think that these are excellent conditions for a successful irish presidency, and it is a good thing that we have an irish president of parliament. i would also like to mention gerald collins, the co-chairman of a very important group in this european parliament, whom we have already met as foreign minister. the irish presidency was also outstanding then, and i wish you success in this half-year as well. mr president of the european council, you spoke of the constitution. for our group, for the epp part of our group, the constitution is the priority of priorities. the failure of the brussels summit must not be the failure of the constitution! you have our full support if you succeed in reaching a result during the irish presidency. (applause from the centre) everybody needs to move now. we, the epp-ed group, are indeed in favour of the principle of a double majority in the council of ministers for decision-making, but it is not possible that this should now be raised to a basic principle, that it should be said that if this is not adopted, the whole constitution will fail. i'm not going to. the constitution is so important that we must also work together on this issue. there must be a compromise, and everyone must be part of it. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i warn you against such a discussion. she's wrong about this. how should a nuclear europe work? how will a multi-speed europe work? it is wrong in the matter, but it is also seen as a threat that certain governments should move in a certain direction. let us stop talking about this core europe, let us create this constitution and let us walk this path together! (applause from the centre) mr president-in-office, your presidency coincides with the elections to the european parliament. the convention's draft constitution states - but it is not yet law - that the outcome of the european parliament elections will be taken into account for the appointment of the president of the commission. i can only encourage you and ask you - i do not know whether you will make a proposal for the office of president in your presidency at the end of june after the elections - to take account of the outcome of the european parliament elections. there is a question of principle here. our group will not go down the same road as in 1999, where some win the elections and others take the commission posts, but the european parliament elections must be taken into account. the commission as a whole must be balanced. as president of the commission - you laugh, i am always glad when you are well - you are asked for your opinion, even now, when the ten commissioners from the applicant countries are appointed. i would like to ask you to ensure that there is a political balance between the parties in the appointment of commissioners. (applause from the centre) then you spoke, mr president, of our relations with the united states of america. i can underline every word you've said. we do not want to be the vassals of the americans, but we are not the enemies of the united states of america either, but we want to be partners of the united states, on an equal footing, speaking on an equal footing with our american friends, and we have common goals on many issues. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. so i can only guess that we see ourselves as equal partners of the united states. it's up to us to be equal. we should not always criticise american dominance, but we should do everything we europeans can to be united, and then we will be on an equal footing with the united states. that doesn't mean we can't criticize our american friends, too. i think, for example, that the situation in guantanamo is intolerable as it is. no man on this earth, no terrorist, no one should be without a right! everyone is subject to a legal system in this world. we should tell our american friends the same thing and please put it in the documents. (applause from the centre) the same applies to chechnya. we are always told that we have spoken to the russian president about chechnya. we want it in black and white in the documents that chechnya is also being dealt with, that we are advocating for the respect of human rights and that we also have the courage to address the leaders of this world or those who think they are on this issue. so my request is that you give human rights a chance by mentioning them in the documents, in the agreements. this is as much a matter of guantanamo as it is of chechnya. let us respect each other, the little ones before the big ones, the big ones before the little ones, we before the minorities. europe can only be shaped if we understand each other and if we respect each other. nobody should dominate anyone, and i thought it was nice to humbly ask everyone to help. that's exactly what's needed. everyone must do his part to bring europe together. our group will stand by you. we wish you every success.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! you have made two comments on the draft constitution and on the intergovernmental conference, to which we can both give our full support. you spoke of the excellent work of the convent. mr cohn-bendit has made a mockery of your words. i take your words seriously and i take you at your word. they mean that you will not allow your colleagues in the igc to tear up and destroy this excellent work again. we know that the igc will not adopt the draft word for word. but the draft constitution is more than just a starting point. it is the solution in its balance, in its equilibrium and in all its essential elements. and one of those essential elements of balance, mr poettering, is the principle of the double majority in a union of states and citizens. that is why it was included in the draft constitution, not to give an advantage to one or another member state. and the second point, mr president-in-office, is that you want to move quickly. you want to present results in march and we will support you in this with all our strength. and on this point, mr poettering, i agree with you: the mumbo-jumbo and oracles about the core of europe, different speeds, centres of gravity, etc., must stop, and the best way to stop it is to ensure that a european constitution is drawn up quickly. (applause from the centre) you have expressed your conviction, mr president-in-office, that the european union needs a constitution. we are of course of the same opinion. but we do not need any constitution, we need the constitution of the convention. and besides, we need it now, not in two or three years. the world and its new challenges are not waiting for europe. and then, let me say something to mr poettering: mr poettering, you have called for the election result to be taken into account in the appointment of the future president of the commission. i am very pleased that you have thus made such a strong case for a social democrat president of the commission. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. if i address an absent member first in this debate, it is probably because he is very busy. i was going to ask mr poettering. but since he is not in the house now, he will surely hear what i have to say. we have heard today, in the debate on the irish presidency of the council, mr poettering, who has repeatedly referred to the same subject, ask: who will be the next president of the commission? and he is quite clear that the next commission president will be proposed by the epp. i should like to begin by saying that on 13 june there will be european elections. and who is the strongest group in this house after the european elections is not decided by mr poettering in plenary sessions, but by the voters in europe. we'll fight like hell. because i am not sure that the epp will be the strongest group in this house after the elections. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i think of the british conservatives, i think of others who no longer have the guts to sit in this group, but perhaps there are a few who will join: mr. fini, we don't know. this is a dynamic process. but whoever becomes the next commission president will need a broad consensus in this house. and the broad support in this house can only be obtained if he has the socialist group on his side, or if it is a woman, on her side, and therefore the conservative colleagues would be well advised to try to take an inclusive course throughout the house instead of campaigning here now. and a second remark should be allowed: here, everyone who speaks about the internal political situation of any member state is criticized. i think of the last presidency of the council, and i have had my own experience of it. but it is noted without comment that every forza italia member in this house is using the position of president of the commission for domestic political rhetoric. and i think that should be rejected vigorously in the interests of the european institutions. (applause from the centre) i would like to ask you, mr president-in-office, a question which i also asked your honourable predecessor, and i hope we will not have to go to the cinema afterwards: what do you intend to do, mr president-in-office, to speed up the implementation of the european arrest warrant? i ask this question every time i hold the presidency of the council. when you say, mr president of the council, that the tampere process should be reviewed, it must be remembered that the european arrest warrant was a key element of the tampere agreements and that, contrary to the promises, it did not come into force on 1 january. i would like to repeat what i said in the last debate: this is not a problem of one member state, but of many member states. i therefore ask you, as the president-in-office of the council, to take this matter seriously. if we are to implement tampere, we need this european arrest warrant. i would be grateful if you could refer to this in your reply. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! if i have read the president-in-office's speech correctly, i think i see a concept behind it which will enable us not to miss the moment of the intergovernmental conference. i think we must try, if it is possible, to reach a decision before the european elections. it will be very difficult to maintain the collective awareness of what has been agreed by the convention and the igc but not formally written down until december of this year. we must be clear that if there is no constitution, there will be no charter of fundamental rights. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. but this will be achieved by a defence union outside the framework of the european union, with all the consequences for nato, the transatlantic alliance and access for all european member states of the european union. i think we are then on the way to re-creating a europe of the various alliances and gradually returning to the period of 1914. i believe that you, mr president-in-office, have a high degree of responsibility for this. the point is that we must not, under any circumstances, remain above the nice threshold on the question of decision-making mechanisms in the council, but we must remain below it in all the negotiating margins that exist, because here the ability to act is a crucial question that must not lead to a lazy compromise. this must be accompanied by a proper balance between large and small states. i believe that the great countries of spain and poland, which are so important to the european union, are being treated with due consideration, but it must also be made clear to you that they have a shared responsibility for the further development of the european union. i trust your diplomatic skills to create a suitable atmosphere in these countries. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council! you have made a clear commitment to multilateralism today. you have called for the strengthening of the united nations and you have welcomed the visit of the un secretary-general to the european parliament at the end of this month. i think it is so clear that rarely has a council presidency started with a commitment to multilateralism and the united nations here, and i also think that the challenges that we are discussing with concern these weeks, international terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, disintegrating states, drug trafficking, human trafficking, cannot be tackled by even the strongest nation in the world alone, but that multilateral solutions are needed. but, mr president-in-office, i think that is an additional argument for why we need the constitution now. the european union is not prepared to act in a united manner vis-à-vis the united nations system. we have too many players. the european community is a member of the fao, has a seat and a voice. in foreign policy, the european union has not yet acquired legal personality. we have a commission office in new york. we have a council office in new york. we need this constitution so that the european union can have legal personality and be able to act in this field. the european union is the largest donor to the united nations system, and we must therefore increase our political influence and jointly demonstrate our political strength. it is therefore necessary that we have a constitution very soon, and i ask that this aspect be included in the discussions. if europe wants to have an impact, it cannot do so in isolation but only in community, and for that your commitment to multilateralism is a very important prerequisite.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i agree with all those who have said that the most important task of the irish presidency is to adopt a constitution which deviates as little as possible from the draft convention. (interruption of the debate) i think we made it clear in december that we would ask you to draw up a consolidated text. it is not good, either for enlargement or for the elections that are coming this year, if we go into enlargement and into the elections without a clear message in this respect. mr president, you have touched on research policy, and this is a very important subject. we must do more here, especially compared to the united states. the disparity is particularly striking in the fields of biotechnology and medicine. the nih in the united states spends 28 billion dollars a year on medical and biotechnology research. the eu is spending €2.25 billion over four years in the sixth framework programme, and even if you add up all the money that the member states are spending, it is much less. this is the main reason why young doctors and researchers still emigrate to the united states. but we also need a clear ethical framework for research and i know that there are differences of opinion in your country, as there are here in the european parliament, on whether the european union should, for example, promote research on human embryos. unfortunately, there was no agreement on this during the italian presidency. the behaviour of commissioner busquin was also a little unclear. i think you need to pick up the ball now. you have the responsibility to work with your minister for research to find a solution acceptable to all parties. this issue must not be dealt with in closed-door comitology. the council of ministers has political responsibility and i urge you to take it up.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. our group has asked for it to be put to the vote in two parts. you just voted on the first part. i therefore ask that the second part of amendment no 36 be voted on. that's how it was requested and filed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i ask again whether you have completed the examination of the separate vote on amendment no 36. they wanted to check it out and call. my group has asked for a separate vote on amendment no 36. you only voted on part one. i want to vote on part two.
mr president, we shall not make it difficult to vote on the final report by mr herzog, but i would ask you to vote now because many of my colleagues are leaving. (applause from the centre)
council. mr president, as a former united nations human rights fellow and indeed as a former chairman of the irish commission for justice and peace, i am particularly pleased that my first address to parliament should be on the european union's preparations for the forthcoming session of the united nations commission on human rights. the general affairs and external relations council conclusions of 10 december 2002 contain concrete recommendations as to how the council and the european parliament can work more closely to achieve openness and transparency in the european union's human rights policy. the council is committed to putting those recommendations into practice. enhancing the dialogue between parliament and the council on human rights issues is an important focus for the irish presidency. today's debate is a valuable part of that discourse. this is an area where we can make real progress if we work together. the european union has always been determined to assume its international responsibilities. the union's size, wealth, history and geography all point to our union playing a prominent role in the period ahead. human rights will remain at the heart of that role. a concern for human rights is at the core of european integration. we are much more than an economic area and an alliance of convenience. ours is a union which is based and built on values. those values are essential conditions for membership. they are a compass that helps guide our external relations. we are committed to the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for universal and indivisible human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. there can be no compromise on or denial of these principles. europe has been at the fore in developing the concept of universal human rights. it was on our continent, europe, that the idea of protecting human rights via written norms was first elaborated: the magna carta of 1215, the bill of rights of 1689 and the declaration of the rights of man of 1789 are all landmarks, but they are not the only landmarks. the attachment of europe to human rights is not an abstract one: it was forged in the bitter experiences of european history – our common history. we need only look back to our own history to understand why the universal declaration of human rights refers in the starkest language to: 'disregard and contempt for human rights that have resulted in barbarous acts which have outraged the conscience of mankind.' that sense of outrage has been used positively in the past half century to construct a new europe that has learned from and not forgotten its history. this presidency believes strongly that human rights have a strategic part to play in confronting the major challenges of our time. there is no need to emphasise the close relationship between peace, security and stability on the one hand, and respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms, democracy and the rule of law, on the other. our presidency will reflect the central importance of human rights in all our external actions. our union can, rightly, be proud of the achievements of the last 50 years. we must never, however, become complacent. there is no part of the globe which is absolutely free from human rights abuses of one form or another. none of us in europe, for example, is without fault: acts of racism, xenophobia and intolerance have not disappeared from our own societies. believing in human rights means being ready to accept criticisms and working every day to strengthen respect for the freedoms that we all hold dear. we must remind ourselves, each and every day, that human rights are not for export only. if human rights within the union are respected absolutely, unquestionably and visibly, our foreign policy will be more effective and more persuasive. we will be in a position to demand respect for basic principles and values – upon which all individual integrity and human decency are founded – from the international community only when those principles and values apply without equivocation in our union. the united nations commission on human rights has played a pivotal role in the promotion and protection of human rights. it has been the standard-setter establishing monitoring mechanisms. the international community should rightly take pride in the commission's unique contribution to this process and to the progress that has been achieved since the proclamation of the universal declaration of human rights. while much has been achieved, more remains to be done. the european union remains committed to cooperating with the high commissioner for human rights, the united nations human rights mechanisms, special rapporteurs and representatives as well as with treaty bodies. the european union will reinforce its efforts towards achieving the united nations secretary-general's goal that the rights of all men, women and children must be 'at the heart of every aspect of un work'. before addressing the preparations for this year's commission on human rights, i would like briefly to address the outcome of last year's session, because it is indicative of the challenges that we face next march and april in geneva. the 2003 session of the commission was challenging. the beginning of the session was overshadowed by the looming war in iraq. the war started during the commission's second week yet, and quite remarkably, the atmosphere, while occasionally fractious, was a significant improvement on the atmosphere of 2002. there was a more positive approach by all groups on a number of issues which had previously caused serious difficulties, most notably the follow-up to the durban world conference against racism and on the rights of the child. the return of the united states to the human rights commission was another positive and welcome development. the european union played a positive role at the human rights commission. on individual country situations, the union successfully tabled resolutions on the human rights situations in burma (myanmar), the democratic republic of congo, iraq, turkmenistan and north korea. the human rights commission adopted a resolution on israeli settlements in the occupied arab territories. the european union also agreed a chair's statement on colombia. however, initiatives from the european union on chechnya and sudan were defeated and our resolution on zimbabwe fell to a no-action motion. a number of important eu initiatives fell in 2003. this was in significant part due to the composition of the human rights commission. it also reflects the unwillingness of some regional groups to accept any condemnation of their members. it also reflects the very large number of proposals coming forward from the european union. turning to thematic resolutions, the eu initiatives on the death penalty and the rights of the child were adopted by the human rights commission. one of the more emotive issues addressed by the commission, a brazilian resolution on human rights and sexual orientation, co-sponsored by the union, ran into vigorous objection, in particular from the organisation of islamic conferences. this issue was remitted to the 60th session of the commission and it is likely to be very sensitive in the upcoming session. before turning to the eu's preparations for the forthcoming commission, i wish to mention the decision by the african group in geneva to challenge the nomination of australia as chair of the session. in line with the current system of geographical rotation, the western group has nominated australia as its candidate for chair of the next session of the commission on human rights. the african group in geneva has indicated that it intends to call for a vote. we are very concerned about this development and its negative impact on the commission on human rights. australia enjoys the full support and the endorsement of the european union and of all other members of the western group. accordingly, the european union has called on the african group to reflect on its decision in advance of the election, due on 19 january 2004. i hope that the african group can be dissuaded from calling for a vote on the chair of the commission. in making this call, i am guided by the need to work constructively with the african group at the forthcoming session of the commission on human rights and to improve relations with the group generally in that forum. the president of the council has already made our anxiety clear to move africa up the agenda of the eu, so there is no question as to our goodwill on this issue. against the background outlined above, i would like to give you as much information as i can about the current state of the council's preparations for the commission on human rights. time does not permit me to touch on every aspect of the commission's work. however, i wish to share with this parliament the essence of our approach as a presidency. at a general level, the human rights working group, cohom, has been working since last autumn on improving the union's performance, based on our experience from last year's session. the first meeting of the human rights working group of the irish presidency will take place on 21 january. in advance of that meeting, the various common foreign and security policy geographical working groups have been asked to present their priorities and their recommendations for action this year. with the help of this input, the human rights working group meeting on 21 january will identify countries which may have formed the subject of eu initiatives at this year's commission. cohom is also likely to request detailed reports from eu heads of mission on human rights situations in these countries. i should stress that no final decision on any initiative has as yet been taken. the human rights working group will take a final decision at a further meeting to be held on 4 february. if there are any particularly controversial issues outstanding, these will be considered by the political and security committee and, if necessary, be decided by the council at council level. the expressions of the union's concern in regard to the human rights situations in countries will not be confined to formal resolutions. in the traditional statement under agenda item 9 – human rights situations in various parts of the world – the eu will refer to a number of country situations in the context of the thematic approach. the presidency intends to keep this draft as concise and as targeted as possible. we believe that by doing so we will have the maximum impact. another effective approach is the type of human rights dialogue that the union has entered into, for example with china and in the eu-iran dialogue. as regards thematic resolutions, again no final decision has been taken. however, the european union is again likely to table resolutions on the death penalty and on children's rights. preparations have also begun for a number of eu statements, including one on the follow-up to the world conference on human rights and others on racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia, the right to development, economic, social and cultural rights, civil and political rights, integration of the human rights of women and the gender perspective, the rights of the child, contemporary forms of slavery and human rights defenders. this list is by no means exhaustive. it does, however, give you some indication of the very thorough engagement which is envisaged by the european union in this year's commission on human rights. the timing of this session for parliament is very welcome because it means that the human rights working group will be in a position to take into account the deliberations of this parliament in framing the union's priorities for the commission. the european parliament's suggestions for initiatives are most welcome and i will be very attentive to any suggestions that come forward here today. a major aim of our presidency is to achieve a fruitful and an effective session of the commission. the climate of confrontation, which increasingly characterises debates in the commission on human rights, is a problem which we will address with our partners. it is a problem that must be resolved, a distraction that the commission on human rights does not need. the actions of the european union in the field of human rights are clearly perceived by part of the international community, for some reason, as being suspect. unfortunately, the very principle of universality of human rights and the conviction that they cannot be constrained or limited by any social, economic or cultural exception are being called into question. ireland will work very hard to counter this perception of the eu stance during our presidency. i would like to conclude by reiterating the important and central position of the question of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the union's external relations policies. peace, security and international stability are founded on full respect for human rights. this is not empty rhetoric; it reflects the objective recognition of a reality that should be clear to all. it is also a reality that is destined to have an ever more decisive influence on governments' external policy choices. it must also inform the strategies of international organisations. in conclusion, i wish to thank parliament for the opportunity to outline the council's preparations for the 60th session of the un commission on human rights and to look forward to further developing the dialogue between the council and parliament in this vital area, which is so close to the heart of all democrats.
commission. mr president, the commission welcomes this opportunity to exchange views with parliament on the forthcoming session of the un commission on human rights. i subscribe wholeheartedly to the statement that has just been made by minister roche. we need to fully guarantee the coherence between respect for human rights internally in the european union and the central role that human rights play in our own external policy. the commission would like to contribute to this debate on the basis of some of its specific points of view. as mr roche just mentioned, the commission on human rights of the united nations is no stranger to controversy. in the statement on the chr preparations delivered on behalf of the commission to parliament last year, commissioner nielson noted that eleanor roosevelt, the first chairman of the chr in 1946, would be turning in her grave at the election of a libyan chair. to that sorry saga we must now add the african group’s provocative indication that they will request a vote, and vote against, the western group’s nominated candidate for chair – australian ambassador mike smith – which can only serve to embitter the atmosphere in geneva ahead of the 60th session. even by the standards of an increasingly politicised chr – a body which saw fit to reject last year’s eu resolutions on zimbabwe, chechnya and sudan – this is an unprecedented move. the commission supports the swift efforts of the irish presidency to mobilise a concerted eu and western group response, with a series of démarches in african and asian capitals. a final decision on the european union’s country and thematic initiatives has not yet been taken and consultations continue between the council working group on human rights and geographical working groups. as the european parliament’s annual report on human rights noted last year, the european union is one of the most active players at the commission on human rights. the eu cannot carry that burden alone, and the search for goodwill and burden-sharing with members of the western and other groups is vital. the eu must make best use of the revitalisation of the united states' interest in both the general assembly third committee and the commission on human rights. whilst acknowledging that eu and us views diverge sharply on several issues, the successful cooperation on the resolution on turkmenistan last year shows that playing to the strengths of our relationship with the united states can pay dividends. cooperation with latin american countries – not least on the omnibus resolution on the rights of the child – stands as a good example of partnership with other groups. moreover, brazil’s courageous, and inevitably controversial, decision to table a resolution on sexual orientation – an issue which will be re-visited this year – also demonstrates the value of encouraging important human rights initiatives from other players. the potential success or failure of draft resolutions cannot, of course, constitute the primary factor in decisions on eu action. the very act of tabling a resolution sends a strong signal of concern and the situation of human rights on the ground must be a pivotal consideration. that said, in rejecting entirely justified resolutions, the commission on human rights is falling far short of fulfilling its mandate to promote and protect human rights. such resolutions do not only stand as a mark of the international community’s preoccupation with a particular country’s human rights record; they provide the basis for the work of country and thematic rapporteurs, charged with the investigation of human rights concerns. it is a mark of the lightness with which certain members of the commission on human rights carry their responsibility to the institution that 35 of the 53 state members have failed to extend a standing invitation to those rapporteurs and other visiting mechanisms. we must make every endeavour in our dialogue and cooperation with such countries to prompt a more acceptable approach. that is entirely in line with the eu’s determination to draw on the work of the commission on human rights as an important element of our relations with third countries, to ensure that the approach we take throughout the year is consistent with what goes on in international human rights fora and to ensure that the mainstreaming of human rights in external relations is a meaningful process. the commission therefore welcomes this debate. we consider it an important contribution to the building-up of the eu position in the forthcoming session. i shall conclude by underlining the commission’s intention to extend every assistance to the irish presidency during what will undoubtedly be a challenging year for the eu in the commission on human rights.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! as in every year, this human rights debate is taking place in the run-up to the un commission on human rights in geneva, and every year, in fact, one can wholeheartedly agree with what is said by the commission and the council. the principles we are proclaiming here are our common principles and no one has any doubt that we all fully support them. the presidency has very correctly said that peace, stability and prosperity cannot be guaranteed without human rights. we are also very quick to come to shortcomings and the commissioner has stressed that this commission on human rights is not really making use of its possibilities in the way that it could. i believe that the irish presidency has the honest will to make the commitment to human rights a central point of its presidency. ireland has a very good record in this and has produced outstanding personalities, such as mary robinson, who have made a name for themselves in this field. in another context, your prime minister said today, in relation to the constitutional treaty: 'i will do my best, but i am not alone. and you are not alone in your concern for human rights, mr president. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on it. it is governed by writing is an old prussian administrative principle; what's not in the files doesn't exist. and if you say something behind closed doors about relations with russia or china, but it is not in a communiqué, then it has not been done politically. i therefore ask you, as the european union, to support resolutions on china, russia and also iran at the commission's meeting. i am the rapporteur for iran and i think it is very necessary that we do that in the present situation. i would advise you - this is a proposal made by parliament in previous years - to consult all the democracies that sit on this commission, not just the 15 or 25 member states, but to consult the functioning democracies of the world and to identify the common features. addressing the africans, you have to ask yourself what africans really want: on the one hand, recognition that they are setting high standards with nepad, the new african development programme, that they are even setting up a peer review mechanism that we discussed last night, but when it comes to getting concrete, they shrink back, they even have something against australia taking over the presidency. probably because australia has been making a face against zimbabwe. i think that is very questionable and we have to ask ourselves how we deal with africans. i said yesterday that i am very much in favour of supporting those who are also working for more human rights in practice, but that also means that we must take action where this is not the case.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. by 2030, the number of people in the eu's workforce will shrink from 303 million to 280 million. as birth rates continue to fall but the number of pensioners increases, negative effects are likely not only on economic growth. does increased immigration from third countries help? the member states decide on the admission of workers, which is also in the interests of the countries of origin, which often lose important potential. controlled immigration makes access to labour markets more manageable. the conditions for entry must be aligned very sensitively and only gradually at eu level, using best practices in recruitment and admission policy in common, as stated in one of our epp amendments. i agree with mr hernández mollar on this point. discussions with the social partners are necessary, as well as with the authorities responsible for local labour market policy. the member states must be much more concerted and determined in their efforts to allow legal employment but prevent illegal employment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. immigration alone, of course, does not secure our social security systems. for example, to increase birth rates significantly, mothers and fathers need much better legal safeguards. we all need a more family-friendly society. reforms of labour markets, education and training systems are essential to improve the skills of workers and create more jobs. the rapporteur, mr moraes, was ready to reach consensus and incorporated many of my amendments into majority-approved compromises, but the new amendments from our group, the epp-ed, do not seem to have found a majority in his group at all. a key point is some have argued that each member state is responsible for its own local election rules. that must be the case in the future. only eu citizens are allowed to vote in the european elections. let us beware of oddities which are precisely in the realm of defamation! if this position is not adopted, it will be very difficult for some of us to agree with the report as a whole. (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the posting of workers directive was adopted in 1996. the purpose of this directive is to remove obstacles and uncertainties in the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services by providing greater legal certainty and by allowing the determination of the working conditions applicable to workers temporarily employed in a member state other than that to whose legislation their employment relationship is subject. in this communication, the commission has summarised the results of its review of the transposition of the directive in the 15 member states and its application in practice, in accordance with article 8 of the directive, in order to answer the question whether a revision of the directive is necessary. the communication shows that the state of implementation of the directive is generally satisfactory, although it should be noted that the uk and ireland do not have specific transposition rules and luxembourg was the last country to complete transposition only 13 months ago. i would also like to mention once again that the posting of workers directive required five years of very difficult discussions before it was adopted in 1996. the problem is that the directive requires the undertakings concerned to comply with the law of a state in which they are not established and whose national law is sometimes difficult to access and understand. these issues need to be solved at national level, as they are problems of transposition of the directive into the law of the member states, which entail difficulties in controlling and monitoring compliance with the legislation. the commission's communication summarises that the problems in the implementation and application of the directive are more practical than legal and has therefore set up an expert group of national officials to find solutions to the problems identified, for example by improving access to and exchange of information on national rules and laws or by producing a set of uniform necessary information. the committee of the regions still considers that this directive is necessary and expressly wishes that the problems identified be quickly resolved, particularly in view of the fact that on 1 may this year ten new countries will be added to the scope of the directive. we must create legal certainty for posted workers in the companies involved in the european single market. the committee also stresses that the implementation of the directive is essential to assess the effectiveness of legislation and that this is becoming even more important in the light of the enlargement of the union. the commission is also invited to provide better and more concrete data on the impact of national implementation, to set clear definitions such as worker status, minimum wages or overtime, and to prevent the unfair posting of workers resulting from unfair competition and social dumping. we also call on the commission to examine the rules governing liability in the case of subcontracting in the context of the posting of workers directive. extensive studies and surveys in the 15 - soon to be 25 - member states are needed to obtain an accurate, comparable picture of the situation. the committee of the regions feels that the commission should support the group of experts and involve the trade unions, the european parliament, the governments and parliaments of the member states and the social partners in its work. the committee calls on the commission to carry out in-depth research in close cooperation with the social partners in order to come forward with proposals to improve and simplify the existing directive, with particular emphasis on the impact of eu enlargement. the whole range of demands on the commission and the member states cannot be allowed to stand. however, as rapporteur, i believe that the pse group's request to the commission to submit a second report on the implementation of the directive by the end of this year is not feasible, given the enormous tasks we are giving to the commission and the member states. i cannot therefore agree to amendment no 1. i am therefore in favour of amendment no 4 by the green group and would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are a little surprised that the commission sometimes has difficulty with evaluating, with the necessary reforms, with reports to parliament and also with new concepts in such complex social policy legislation as the posting of workers directive. this is unfortunately the case with the european works council, and it is the case again with the posting of workers directive. this is astonishing because it is precisely these two laws that send a signal to the population and to the workers, a signal that we have a european social model. that is why this is regrettable! in the debate in committee, your house even tried to make us believe that all the problems with the directive had nothing to do with europe, but were largely confined to shortcomings in national implementation. we do not think that is the case. the state of implementation cannot be satisfactory either when there are hundreds of complaints to national and regional labour and social courts. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. for this reason - and it is certainly rare that we have to criticise the commission here - we think that you have made it too easy for yourself with your report, as has unfortunately the rapporteur. however, the cooperation was excellent, mrs glase, and i can only thank you because you accepted nine of my ten requests on behalf of the socialist group. i also want to agree with my predecessor who said that there is still abuse, exploitation by employers, and it is amazing - we all find this, not only in germany but also in other countries - that the creativity of employers to circumvent the laws is surprisingly high. the only conflict we have as a parliament is the deadline. and i tell you quite frankly that we are not concerned with giving the commission a month or more to draw up a new in-depth report. but experience shows that if we give you 14 months instead of 12, you take 22 or 26 months, and that's why we need some pressure and that's why we decided to ask for 12 months. it is unfortunate, because we are in agreement otherwise, but i am convinced - and this is what i would like to say in conclusion - that you can also meet this deadline if you take the social partners and the european trade unions as allies for the analysis, because they all have the necessary data, the deficits and the abuses already on the table.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. our colleague mrs glase rightly points out in her report that although the posting of workers directive has existed since 1996, in practice posted workers do not have legal security at work and often do not have a fair employment relationship. what we're seeing there is working poor. i know this from my conversations over the past few years at the largest construction site in the centre of berlin. the railway station, the corporate buildings and the government buildings have been built by construction workers from britain and portugal and many other european countries without having a regular working day, without having the same pay as their german colleagues, let alone health and accident insurance. so is the posting of workers directive not a suitable instrument or is it just not being implemented properly? the glasse report gives a clear answer to this question. the directive is a suitable instrument to guarantee equal pay for equal work in the same workplace. the implementation in the member states, on the other hand, is miserable. i believe that this is primarily due to a lack of effective sanctions. even if it is found that a portuguese company does not pay its construction workers under the same conditions as the german company next door, even if the controls of the labour office prove this to it, nothing happens. in a few weeks the company will be back in portugal and the fine order from germany will not interest anyone there. the company is making a profit by circumventing the law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. we thank the rapporteur for supporting this amendment. i don't want to see any more payback for breaking the rules. black sheep must be branded! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr hughes, mr de rossa and mr andersson for their interest in the subject of harassment at work, which is clearly helping the commission. i should say that i do not accept mr hughes's overall criticism, i understand parliament's reaction to this particular issue which, as mr hughes has admitted, is extremely complex and difficult because the reality is very different from country to country. legislation and definition on psychological violence is an extremely difficult subject, but zero-sum approaches to health and safety, i would say, are a negative exaggeration. i would remind mr hughes that during the last six presidencies i do not think there has been a single presidency where there has not been legislation on health and safety. i would remind you that in the programme of the irish presidency we have two directives, one is being completed and the other, concerning problems in the field of optical energy, is about to start the dialogue with the social partners and the first seminar of the irish presidency. it is therefore clear that the commission has adopted legislation which is both innovative, since it does not exist in the majority of member states, and very difficult to agree on, since you are well aware of the fact that the social partners are usually not in agreement. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the safety of the road in the area of road transport. a commission communication with a white paper on health and safety for the years to 2006 was presented, in which it was clearly stated that the commission would examine the suitability and feasibility of a community instrument on psychological harassment and violence at work. at this stage the commission services are working on the specific problem, collecting and analysing the data available, and indeed in all countries, and this analysis takes account, inter alia, of the legislative and regulatory initiatives adopted or envisaged in each member state, as well as the results and the difficulties of their implementation. i should say that in this context the european parliament resolution on harassment at work, referred to by mr hughes, the resolution by mr andersson and the opinion on violence at work adopted by the advisory committee on safety, hygiene and health protection at work are extremely relevant, carefully studied and supportive texts for our efforts. mr hughes asked for a timetable. i should therefore say that the commission is starting in 2004 the consultations with the social partners on community action in this field, in accordance with article 138 of the treaty, and as you know, these consultations are included in the commission's work programme for 2004, which has been announced. i should like to point out that, depending on the reactions of the social partners to these consultations, the choice of a specific community legislation aimed at preventing all forms of violence at work is one of the measures, but not the only one. the new community strategy on health and safety at work 2002-2006 mentions the possibility of using a combination of the available instruments, both legislative and non-legislative. thus, in order to achieve effective prevention of all forms of violence at work, other non-binding instruments such as recommendations or other non-legislative initiatives such as guidelines, information and awareness campaigns, enhanced training activities for workers and employers, can be complementary rather than mutually exclusive actions, in cooperation of course with a legislative text. finally, the commission considers that psychological violence and harassment are specific forms of violence at work. i would say that sexual harassment is a specific form of violence, and there was legislation on it two years ago. for this reason, the above consultations with the social partners will cover any form of violence which undermines the health, physical and psychological integrity and dignity of workers.
the commissioner, mr president, has already said that it is not possible to do so. the report on harassment in the workplace was adopted almost three years ago. those who have dealt with this subject, as jan andersson and i have, have gone down to the depths of human interaction. 8 % of eu workers say they have been bullied themselves. this is the official record. the unknown number is likely to be many times higher. the report has dealt in detail with the causes, effects and circumstances of bullying and sexual harassment at work. the whole range of violence and harassment in the workplace is a very serious problem. as the report describes, it leads to extreme physical and mental stress, as well as to serious illnesses. the effects of this are felt in private life, on social security and on the general economic performance. combating this problem is a very difficult task. it will be difficult to define bullying in a uniform way. the commission's task was to identify other factors that contribute to bullying. only if you have a clear picture of the real extent of the problem can you take appropriate countermeasures. can the commission respond to this request in the foreseeable future? i am convinced that the fight against bullying is a matter for the member states. the social partners, national courts, educational institutions and associations should be given special support in their efforts to combat bullying. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. this may help to end the indifference among us. bullying and sexual harassment are not cavalier crimes, but crimes that must be tackled where they occur. the effectiveness of a european directive is therefore questionable. but can the commission make proposals on how to support individual efforts in the member states?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is true that there have been many initiatives to prevent and prevent bullying, including in the member states. i can still remember that 30 years ago in germany an initiative was created to humanize the world of work and that we discussed a commission communication on the modernisation of work organization relatively recently. i think we all remember. we also remember that the belgian presidency took an initiative to improve the quality of work, but all this was not enough. commissioner, i understand that you say that there are differences in the member states in terms of evaluation and analysis, but we must recognize that all the industrialized countries have the same problem. i agree with mr andersson when he says that it is not just the 8% of the workforce, as defined by the dublin foundation, which is 12 million workers, but unfortunately it is a matter of reinforcing this phenomenon and increasing these figures. the concentration of work in many sectors, including the service sector, makes the problem of bullying more difficult and more widespread. that is why we need - and i agree with everyone in the group of the party of european socialists - a legal framework. it is not enough to simply raise awareness, as necessary as it is - i agree - but it is not enough! we know your courage, commissioner, when it comes to the inertia of some member states. we know that it will be more difficult to introduce legislation on this than on, for example, the banning of asbestos or noise pollution. we also know that many large companies already have regulations. i know volkswagen and others. there are many, but most of them have nothing yet, and most employers have not yet realised the loss in euro that they are suffering from sick workers' absences, from lack of motivation, from resignation, from lack of or decreased enthusiasm at work, all caused by bullying. if employers understood that, we wouldn't have these problems. but since we have these problems, we also need to create a legal framework, and europe is responsible for protecting workers from risks at work. it is our job, and we should do it.
commission. mr president, this is a much debated and very important issue. i wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr zappalà, for his report, which usefully completes the commission text in some places and supports the substantial consolidation proposed. we all know that it is a very wide-ranging proposal that covers a large variety of issues of great interest to the professions and also more generally. i should like to thank parliament for the efforts it has made towards finding workable compromises. i should like to pay tribute to the members of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market and other committees for their active contributions. in particular, i should like to welcome the maintenance, with some additional flexibility, of the existing levels of qualification, which have already played a central role in the operation of professional recognition at eu level. let me point out that we face the need to improve conditions of free movement for professionals in an enlarged union through simpler and clearer rules, simpler and more effective management systems and clearer and simpler conditions for cross-frontier service provision. the commission is ready to take into account the special considerations which apply to the health-sector professions in order to find appropriate solutions within the wider context of simplification. i shall now be pleased to listen to the debate on this crucial proposal.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on employment and social affairs. the commission has already done so. the proposed directive is intended to replace 15 existing directives in the field of the recognition of professional qualifications. the commission has adopted a horizontal approach which risks lumping together all the vocational qualifications. but that should not be the case. for reasons of consumer protection alone, it should be ensured that qualitative dumping does not occur. a high quality of training must be ensured. the committee also expressed concern that the provision of crossborder services should be facilitated by reducing the requirements for the qualification standard of the service provider. the commission proposes that any operator legally established in a member state should be able to provide services in another member state for a period of 16 weeks per year without needing to be authorised or subject to controls. we couldn't agree to that. service providers have obligations both towards the recipient of the service and towards the authorities of the host member state. this is the only way to ensure that control and protection mechanisms are in place. in particular, sensitive activities must be subject to control. the citizens cannot judge the quality of doctors or tax consultants, for example. it is confident that the training, qualification and licensing systems that have been known and proven to date exist. the committee on employment and social affairs also wants to ensure that those who have a high level of professional qualification, thanks to national regulations, are not placed at a disadvantage compared to those who have a low level of qualification but the same professional title. however, it is essential that the wording of legislation does not call into question the freedom of movement. it is therefore to be welcomed that the committee on legal affairs and internal market, through its rapporteur, mr zappalà, whom i congratulate on his balanced report, has found a compromise between a horizontal and a sectoral approach and has ensured that professional organisations have been able to contribute their expertise to the implementation of the directive.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the house has a directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, which is welcome. it is even urgently needed to create clarity and legal certainty throughout the european union. the horizontal approach is good. it leads to a uniformity of legislation rather than a multiplicity of solutions. nevertheless, the work on this text has taken a lot of time, dedication and sweat. this is due to the diversity of the occupational fields and - let us say it calmly - also to the flood of requests that have been put to us by the people concerned and their professional representatives. the rapporteur has made a great effort and, with the help of dedicated colleagues in the committee, has also achieved considerable partial success. but it's not the columbus egg! that is why we are now faced with a huge number of amendments in the plenary. i myself, on behalf of the socialist group, have tabled 50 amendments to make a good intention into a good directive. on the one hand, our proposals seek to promote the free movement of workers and the freedom of establishment within the union. at the same time, we want to contribute to the provision of high-quality services everywhere in the interests of consumers. this requires rules and conditions, which we on the other hand want to keep to the minimum necessary. it is only by not allowing bureaucratic red tape to grow that we can create real freedom of movement and mobility. with these objectives in mind and the desire to achieve a good result, i have listened to you a great deal and carefully over the past few months. we have therefore discussed with colleagues in this house the ways in which we can ensure the livelihood of those concerned today and give them a good future in europe in their profession tomorrow. the result of the discussions is set out in the form of amendments tabled by the spe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to give its opinion on the proposal. i would like to say a few words to mr harbour: the engineers have spoken to us a great deal, and i have listened to them very carefully and i can quite understand their approach. perhaps your group can agree with an amendment by the spe in which we have proposed that engineers should come together in a platform which finds a consensus in the profession and then we could incorporate that consensus at a later date in further discussions on the directive we are discussing today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the original purpose of this directive was to simplify, so that, in the context of the slim programme, as many european legal texts as possible become less complex and easier for the citizen to understand. i have serious doubts whether this proposal for a directive has actually succeeded. as we all know, there have been sectoral directives in the european union for decades on a whole range of professions, specifically designed to create the right conditions for the recognition of these professions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why the majority of my group wanted to keep the sectoral directives. moreover, the majority of complaints received did not relate to the regulated sectors but to the non-regulated sectors, i.e. those not covered by the sectoral directives. we have not been able to get this idea through the committee. the result is now - and it is obvious - that a large number of amendments are making it necessary to incorporate more and more elements from the sectoral directives into the general directive. the result cannot be described as something which has led to the simplification of legislation in europe, quite the contrary, it has made everything more bureaucratic, complicated, incomprehensible and inefficient, so the opposite of slim, thick i would say to the directive to use that english term. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal, but i would like to say that i am not in favour of the proposal, because i think it is a very good one. to cut a long story short: in the end, the deliberations were about preventing worse, not about doing good. the outcome of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market prevented worse, but it could not bring about anything good. we will agree to the result, given that nothing else was possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, but above all, dear mercedes echerer! congratulations on this sisyphus work, which this report certainly was. it is not possible to do otherwise with such a multifaceted subject. but success proves you're right. there is a great deal of agreement, which is not always the case in this parliament. but it also shows that there is a growing awareness of the problem. i would like to make this clear by a few figures. when it comes to child pornography on the internet, the media is full of headlines and reports of sexual abuse. but when it comes to economic crime, the attention is not so great. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of artists are respected and that they are not deprived of their right to a fair income. the economic damage of 5% of the gross national product is mentioned here, but if we break it down into sectors, it looks like this: in the audiovisual industry, 25% of the products are counterfeits, and in the recording industry, the figure is as high as 40%. it has become a lucrative market for organized crime. these are not just individual violations that are spreading. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the result is an enormous economic loss. the loss of tax revenue, the loss of jobs, the loss of investment - and this is particularly true in the music industry - but also the loss of rights for people like you and me, namely the loss of consumer protection, the loss of youth protection and so on, and ultimately the threat to cultural diversity. the commission has therefore decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of intellectual property rights. the new information society is a new type of society, one which is based on the idea of a single market. the report gives a detailed account of how this can and should be done, and the other committees have also given their opinions. as a member of the committee on culture, i would like to stress that the collecting societies are not just a kind of protective community, but that they always have a cultural function, whatever their form of organisation. the protection and exploitation of intellectual property rights are also intended to promote culture and cultural diversity. the committee on culture is therefore right to call on the commission in its opinion to give special attention to this aspect. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the suffering of the people of zimbabwe is unfortunately becoming a never-ending story. there are no positive developments at home and few positive developments from abroad. the only positive aspect that i can think of at the moment is that at least the commonwealth has remained firm in its stance towards zimbabwe. but the council too, when the situation became more serious three or four years ago, behaved very ambivalently for a very long time. i would like to see the council's representatives not only present on such occasions but also commenting on the accusations made against the council, because the main criticism in urgent cases is often directed at the council. the council always hides behind the travel ban alleged obligations under international diplomatic conventions, when in fact, as a rule, it allows the zimbabwean ministers to re-enter. nowhere does it say that you have to give all diplomatic honours to a criminal regime. of course, you can take diplomatic reprisals against those who do not adhere to any human rights conventions. of course, you can also seize these people's accounts and freeze the money until other circumstances arise. i think that the council has not really made clear to south africa the seriousness of our urge that south africa too should exert this necessary pressure. i think this problem is really something that can't be ignored. you can try to look the other way, but the urgency is growing. it is not the case that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the facts. our governments in particular have no reason to look the other way on this matter.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are shocked by the murder of archbishop courtney, who was very close to many of us during the five years he spent here in strasbourg as a diplomat, a pastor and also a personal friend. and archbishop courtney - i just have to say this once - was one of the great ecclesiastical figures in the tradition of the great irish churchmen of the middle ages, who always stood for peace and for humanity. and he was the one who insisted here in strasbourg that we can celebrate a service together once a month. he initiated this with some of us here in the european parliament at the time. and archbishop courtney - i remember him saying goodbye to me here today - went to burundi to take an active part in the peace process there. when his plane landed there, it was already being fired upon, he was already being greeted with missiles. for five years he then worked very actively in the peace process, risking his life, with his vast experience gained in operations in hotspots of crisis on four continents. he was to go to cuba this week to take up his post as papal nuncio, to help make a breakthrough in human rights and religious freedom. but that was not the case with his mysterious, brutal and deliberate murder. we should keep a good memory of him. but it would be absolutely against his wishes if we looked at burundi only because of his murder and forgot about the daily killings in that african country. in recent years, more than 200 000 people have been murdered there, not only because of so-called ethnic conflicts, but because of a deliberate policy of genocide. and the fact that it was even worse in neighboring rwanda, that it's just as bad in neighboring uganda and neighboring congo, should not blind us to the fact that we have a special obligation to this tortured region with its transnational ethnic genocides. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we come to another extremely sad subject. haiti was once a beacon of hope for the african slaves brought to america, who had assembled there as members of a free republic. today, 200 years after this independence, we have to find that this country is as poor and as broken and as violently destroyed as it has ever been, and you can only fall into pessimism once you look at it up close. i have had two meetings with president aristide today. one was several years ago, when he was considered the beacon of possible democratization in haiti. he had been elected by a large majority and a large turnout of the people who believed that, freed from the dictatorship of papa and baby doc, they could now lead a new life in a good future. unfortunately, this was a big mistake and he was again removed from office. we brought him to the acp assembly in santo domingo by secret means when he was in exile, because we too thought that haiti could have a good future with aristide. the second meeting was after the acp assembly in nassau, when we were carrying out a mission of the development committee to haiti and i had the honour of chairing the delegation. this encounter has made it clear that we are dealing with a man who has no idea where he came from, but i wouldn't even consider that the worst thing. we are dealing with a man who has fascist views - there is no other way to describe it - with complete disregard for all democratic institutions. and so haiti is once again without a parliament for three days, the mandate of the deputies expired on january 12th, and a new election is not in sight! a handful of senators from the second chamber are still in office, but that doesn't create legitimacy for anything. we are dealing with the absence of elections, the falsification of elections, the intimidation of the electorate, which, as the last experience has shown, goes to the polls even if it is only about 5%, because they prefer to stay at home and to feel safe. this is the political reality in haiti. political violence and criminal violence are not always separated. death squads take out disliked opposition figures, journalists who try to do something like independent reporting are persecuted to death. i could go on and on. it will depend on our support for those forces that are fighting these abuses. there's a group called the caravan of hope. we should support these forces in the hope that things might turn for the better in haiti as well. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as mrs junker has just said, the country has been independent for 200 years, and when, more than 10 years ago, this terrible dynasty of duvalier, papa and baby doc, finally came to an end, we thought that things could only get better. it wasn't so bad at first. mr aristide was a bearer of hope, but we all see how things have developed in the meantime. it is not only we europeans - and certainly not the americans, who are even closer geographically - who have to ask ourselves what we have done wrong with our policies over many decades, by doing or not doing. why has the western half of this large island of hispaniola developed in this way? on the other hand, in the dominican republic, things are not ideal. the fact that millions of europeans and americans go there as tourists, bringing at least some money into the country, is an indicator that it can't be that bad. it's not ideal, but it's an indicator that it's a safe place to be. we must find answers to what we have done wrong. the european parliament's demands to haiti are very concrete. the political killings must be stopped, members of the ruling party must be forced to abide by the law, the militias, the armed gangs and the so-called special police brigades must be disbanded and disarmed, and a national dialogue between the government and the opposition must be launched so that this caravan of hope can reach its destination. the best thing to do - and this is what we are asking - is to have the united nations mediate this, and the un mission working with the police there must be re-established. conditions must be created to enable the suspension of the cotonou agreement to be lifted under article 96, because we urgently need to provide support, above all in the fields of education and health.
council. mr president, i am very pleased to have the opportunity to make a statement on the current situation in the intergovernmental conference and i look forward to hearing your views. as you know, in accordance with our mandate from the brussels european council, we have been consulting widely with our partners. the taoiseach has already either spoken to or met most of his colleagues on the european council and will have been in contact with all of them before long. several more meetings are scheduled over the coming weeks. foreign minister cowen and i have also talked to and met with as many of our counterparts as possible. we also discussed the igc over lunch at last monday’s meeting of the general affairs and external relations council. notwithstanding the importance of bilateral consultations, we felt that it was also important to recognise the collective nature of the igc and to have an informal discussion of where we stand. i was very gratified that there was full support for our approach at the general affairs council. the discussion was a positive one – there is considerable common ground. we are all committed to taking the work of the igc forward and to concluding it as soon as possible. however, we all also recognise that there are sensitive and complex issues which remain to be resolved. in these consultations with our partners and all those involved in the igc, including of course the european parliament, we are seeking to build a complete picture of the situation in the igc. we want to ensure that we fully understand the views and concerns of all, to listen to what everyone has to say and, through active dialogue, tease out the exact nuances of their positions. this will help towards the second and more complex phase of our mandate to draw conclusions from our contacts and prepare a report for the march european council. i do not wish at this stage to speculate about what that statement will contain. we do not underestimate the complexity of our task. the issues to be resolved may be few in number, but they are highly sensitive and difficult. we will try to encourage progress, to build mutual understanding and to identify common ground. however, we cannot compel agreement in the absence of the shared political will to achieve it. there is an obligation on everyone to think not only of their own interests, but of the collective interest of the union as a whole. in that context i want to reiterate the point made by the taoiseach in strasbourg, and also by the minister for foreign affairs, mr cowen, before the committee on constitutional affairs last week: 'if it emerges that there is a real prospect of achieving an agreement during our presidency, then we will not hesitate to seize that opportunity'. we intend to submit the fullest possible report to the european council. the convention opened up the process of treaty change and brought fresh perspectives to bear. we all – parliaments and governments alike – are accountable to our people, and the democratic authority of the convention was underscored by the breadth of its membership. i am pleased that the great bulk of what was proposed by the convention has stood throughout the igc and will continue to stand. for example, the text clearly sets out the allocation of competences between the union and the member states, and the principles governing their exercise. it simplifies legal procedures and instruments. it creates a single legal personality for the union. it enhances the role of this parliament, and it also gives national parliaments an important part in the overall architecture. by incorporating the charter of fundamental rights, the draft enhances the prominence of human rights in the work of the union. the values and objectives of the union are more clearly expressed. its proposals on the creation of a single european union foreign minister and external action service should make the union’s external policies more effective and coherent. the convention’s report remains and will remain at the heart of the igc's work. but as a matter of both legal and political reality, governments are obliged to look very carefully at it, and in particular at those aspects which would affect them most directly. in due course it will be our duty to seek national ratification, in some cases through referenda. the efforts of the italian presidency ensured that considerable progress was made in resolving most of the points raised by governments. the work done in the run up to the naples conclave in late november 2003, and at naples itself, was very productive. the paper prepared immediately in advance of the european council was particularly valuable and struck a very careful balance. while, of course, nothing is agreed until everything is agreed, and while there are aspects of the italian presidency's good work which were not the subject of final consensus, we believe we must try, as far as possible, to maintain the excellent progress which has been made. when minister cowen appeared before the constitutional affairs committee, he gave an assurance that the irish presidency would be open, fair and balanced, and that we would listen to all views and work to accommodate them. i want to repeat that message here today. we have no hidden agendas, no pet projects. we are determined that nobody will be able to question our even-handedness. we may, or may not, succeed. but this house can be absolutely assured that we will put every possible effort into this work. (applause)
commission. - mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i remember a rather famous proverb which says something like 'the street of later is the place of never'. in your presence, mr president, the european council in brussels decided a few weeks ago to take the 'later route' to achieve the objective of the european constitution. at that time, in the spirit of brussels, there were quite a number of us who felt that this delay "later" was preferable to a bad agreement, immediately, which would have called into question the work of the convention. but today, on behalf of the european commission and in particular my colleague and friend antonio vitorino, i want to say that we will not accept that this 'later' will lead to 'never'. today's debate, which your assembly has called for, must be an opportunity to relaunch the constitutional process with us and to preserve the european spirit that we built together during the 18 months of the convention. to achieve this, all those of good will must be united: the presidency and the member states of the council, the european parliament, the commission, national parliamentarians, with the help of the regions, organised civil society, for a kind of general re-mobilization of public opinion. we must all work together to give hope to this process. the european commission's contribution to this emergency mission will be based on three convictions. first conviction: we want a general agreement. a general agreement is not an agreement in bits and pieces, but an overall agreement, the balances of which everyone must be able to measure on the basis of a text known to all. that is why the commission considers that there is no acquis from the discussions in brussels, as minister roche has just said in his own way. especially when what would be an achievement would be nothing but a setback. at most, are there trends that are useful to consider when resuming interrupted work? however, they must be confronted with an open, transparent debate and the reality of the present moment. we naturally acknowledge the very useful work carried out under the italian presidency, which was the subject of the preparatory document for the naples ministerial meeting. secondly, we want an agreement based solely on the draft constitution drawn up by the convention. this is the only achievement that must be taken into account, because, like many others, we believe that we will never do better and more than the result of this collective and democratic work developed over 18 months. you are of course aware of our institution's position on this acquis. we believe that a few points can be clarified, adjusted and improved, as regards the composition and functioning of the commission, in order to extend the scope of the qualified majority and, of course, to make the procedures for revising the treaties more flexible. but we want to preserve, together with you, its general balance, particularly in all matters relating to finance and the budget. third conviction: we want an agreement as soon as possible. the irish presidency has, in a way, taken up its pilgrim's staff. it has revived listening and working among participants in the intergovernmental conference. the commission, mr president, fully supports and will support the efforts and the method you have chosen. and it's worth the effort. an agreement, ladies and gentlemen, will not be any easier - i think it will be much more difficult - in november 2004 than in april or may 2004. if we let this symbolic deadline of 1 may or 9 may and the politically important deadline of 13 june, which is yours first and foremost, pass, the draft constitution will not be very far from what i called, at the beginning of my speech, 'the place of eternity'. this means that the commission supports all efforts from all sides to preserve this constitutional process. as you said, mr president, the next meeting will be the european council in march, where the presidency will assess the outcome of its bilateral consultations and where, together, we will check the state of mind of the heads of government. we will in particular check whether this mood in march is, as we hope, different from what it was in december in brussels. that is why, mr president, the draft resolution prepared by your assembly has the full approval and support of the european commission. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! i too would like to thank the irish presidency. i think it has responded to the december resolution of this house to the extent necessary and has brought movement into the debate. it has found new ways of structuring the way we talk to each other, and it does so with the necessary sensitivity. all of this together leads me to the conclusion that there is a real chance of getting closer to parliament's objective and of reaching a result before 1 may or before the european elections. i think this is important and it is the recognition on all sides that we do not want to maintain the momentum of the debate until next december, nor do we want to maintain the collective awareness of what has been agreed more or less under the italian presidency, that we must have both of these things together and that we must therefore use a shorter period. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must remember what the european parliament wants. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the question of transparency, so that the citizen knows who is responsible in europe, but also, of course, the question of efficiency. that is the debate we have to have here at this crucial moment. i think it is important that we do not confine ourselves to the millimetre of a particular model. the crucial point is that the decisionmaking structure must be more efficient than that of nice if an enlarged community is to be able to act. this must be the right measuring stick. and i believe that on this basis, with the necessary imagination, we will be able to find such balances that the countries which often have difficulties in this matter can accept this because it is also linked or can be linked to other issues, in order to find in this way a really fair balance, but which meets these three objectives of democratization, transparency and efficiency. let me make one final point. we have had so much discussion after brussels about the multi-speed europe. we have always had that in the treaty, whether it was the euro, whether it was schengen or whatever the circumstances. but it was always that everyone could talk to everyone in the same boards and that it was open for all members to join. what we are talking about today as a necessity is a defence union. if the constitution is not adopted, there will be a compulsion to create a defence union outside the framework of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and the result would be - not because anyone wants it, but because the timetable is such - that we would then be standing at a europe of alliances in 1914 at some point in five or ten years. i think that this is something that each of us should be aware of and avoid, and that is why it should be our responsibility to come to a conclusion now. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office of the council! we need the constitution, and we need it by the 25th. all the talk about mini-europe, centres of gravity and different speeds is no substitute for the constitution. on the contrary, it leads to confusion, to a patchwork europe of intrigue and scheming, and that is the first thing we must avoid. secondly, we need the constitution before the elections because we have to send a message to the electorate throughout europe, who are increasingly waiting for this constitution to be adopted, and because we know that nothing will get easier in the autumn or next year, but everything that has to do with the constitution will get harder. thirdly, we know very well that we must not fail a second time at the intergovernmental conference. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. fourthly, the results of naples should no longer be called into question. the arguments have been exchanged. we are where we have not always wanted to be, but this is a basis for moving on. i know that the majority of the member states are prepared to accept naples as the italian presidency has put it forward as a consensus. besides, in one respect, elmar, i'm a little different from you. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. we will support the irish presidency with all our strength, both in the method by which you are trying to reach a consensus and in the aim of presenting not just a timetable but the outline of possible outcomes in march. finally, a final word of hope. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union must not be left to the mercy of the west. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this is also our wish. if mr hänsch is listening, may the sun shine. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. (call from mr schulz: we call it the morning red!) the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe, and i am sure that the european parliament will be a great help to the people of europe. but seriously, 2004: this is a crucial year, as we all know. on 1 may, ten countries will join the european union, we will be 450 million people in the european union. that's far more people than live in the united states and russia combined, and that actually shows by the scale how necessary it is that we need a foundation for how these 25 states -- soon more states -- how these 450 million people are held together. it is important that on 10 and 13 june we come before the electorate with a constitution that shows us the way to go through this 21st century in peaceful cooperation, in peaceful integration of our continent. i say on behalf of the epp-ed group that the constitution is our top priority. it was the experience of nice that we set up the convent. it is parliament in particular - and i do not want to use this for our group alone - that has called for this convention. if the convention had been able to decide on its own, ladies and gentlemen, we would have a constitution today. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. blaming is not going to help, and it is not just a political experience, but a human experience that blame is never, or almost never, one person's fault, but always involves several people. that is why we are now asking for compromise and the ability to compromise from everyone, and above all there is a psychological basis for success: that we have respect for each other and that the small countries are treated with the same respect as the largest countries. being a great country doesn't mean you're on the right track. (applause from the centre) so there are no first-class and second-class members in the european union. you hear some adventurous arguments against the constitution. there are people who say, "yes, the constitution is the european superstate, centralism". and it is the same people who reject a constitution who are scourging the alleged exclusive bureaucracy and bureaucracy in europe. and that is why we say that a constitution is our means of achieving democracy and parliamentarism in the european union. (applause from the centre) (call from mr schulz: name names!) yes, there are many people involved, but i don't want to make you more famous. the european parliament is strengthened by the constitution, but national parliaments are also strengthened because they have the power to bring legal proceedings, even against proposed european union legislation that goes against the principle of subsidiarity. and we must also tell the critics of the european constitution that for the first time municipal self-government is enshrined in a european constitution. and if there is a dispute about whether, within the framework of the european system of competences, europe has competence, or the national states have competence, or regional and local self-government is affected, then it is of great importance - not only political but also legal - that the european court of justice can invoke the article that defines local self-government. we have been talking about the core of europe and the many speeds, and i agree with what elmar brok and klaus hänsch have said. the two have been members of this parliament for a long time, so that the small differences of opinion which still exist between them, despite their close cooperation in the convention, will be overcome, and if they need mediation, there will be sufficient members of our group at their disposal. (laughter) we must have the same objective in europe. we have the same goal. and that is what we are all working towards. those who talk about nuclear europe are basically calling for a return to intergovernmental cooperation, and i say to you: this is not the case with our group, and we will oppose it resolutely. where there's a will, there's a way... (applause)... and we need respect for each other, and most importantly, we need trust for each other. mr president-in-office of the council, we have confidence in you, in your government, in the taoiseach, in the president of the european council, in your foreign minister, in you personally, we also have confidence in michel barnier - i want to limit this to the commission today - and if we go down this road together - (laughter) - together, with determination, and defend the common europe, then in the end - i am convinced of this - we will also succeed together. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the irish presidency has the chance to make good on a great promise, namely that deepening comes before enlargement. this promise was made to the people ten years ago. we are calling for this constitution to be brought to an end before the european elections, before 1 may, but at least in parallel with enlargement. i was wondering what else you were negotiating. stick as closely as possible to the text of the convention. mr berlusconi never mentioned the 82 subjects on which agreement was reached in naples. maybe you could publish this someday. i think that the voting in the council - this double majority - must remain the basis. it should be a chance for choices, not a chance for more blockages. this should be your yardstick, and if the constitution does not come, then the two-speed europe that we do not want is threatened.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would like to agree with mr karas on the points he has just made in his speech, because there is not much to object to in the way he has expressed them. however, if we debate this a little longer together - and we do debate this a little longer in the committee - we will find very profound contradictions here and there, and i think we need to talk about them a little more, to clarify things a little more. one thing is clear: competition policy is an important, indispensable instrument for the functioning of the european internal market, for the further deepening of integration, for the exploitation of the gains in prosperity and efficiency that a large integrated market brings. but competition policy is just an instrument - i said instrument - and it is not an end in itself, because if it were an end in itself, competition policy would very quickly degenerate into pure ideology. competition policy is an instrument which must be subordinated to social and sociopolitical objectives and must contribute to their achievement. in this respect, we are not operating in a free market economy, as the draft resolution of the committee on economic and monetary affairs says, but in an ecological and social market economy. mr karas, you have just mentioned the concept of the social market economy, but you voted against it in committee. it is astonishing that the conservatives and christian democrats have refused to speak of the social market economy here in the house, and you, ladies and gentlemen from the other side of the house, can correct this embarrassing mistake of your group in the economic affairs committee in the plenary vote tomorrow if you agree to our amendments. we are in favour of strong merger control. but it must also be strong in that it takes into account social and employment implications and allows workers and their representatives to have a say in decision-making. this is a suggestion to the commissioner. we in the socialist group are also in favour of strict control of aid, but aid can be justified from the point of view of modernisation, strengthening competitiveness, innovation, sustainable growth and the creation of lasting jobs. i would like to see more attention paid to the impact and also to the positive impact on the entire value chain in which the aid is situated when assessing aid. we have had a number of debates on this. because time is running out, a final question to the commissioner. mr monti, you are aware of our decision to provide social security during last week's plenary session in strasbourg. we have been very clear in our support of a legal framework based on the co-decision procedure of parliament, and that is why this cannot be regarded as a placeholder for a block exemption regulation. that is what i heard in the commission's response. we have also raised the question of a follow-up during this parliamentary term. it's not that long anymore. we cannot discuss this for much longer, and that is why i ask: how are the commission's workings in this area?
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you can imagine that today is an important day for me. it is a pleasure to be able to attend this debate which will lead to a positive conclusion and therefore to the approval of what has been one of the priorities of this commission and, of course, of mine, as responsible for transport, which is the launching of the single european sky. it's been a hard and complicated job that we've developed over the years, because it's been years. in the light of this initiative, military aviation officials from all the member states of the union, together with civilian officials, met for the first time on the premises of the european institutions - and specifically on the premises of the commission - in uniform to discuss some of the aspects which have been pointed out by the rapporteurs, such as the flexible use of european airspace, both civil and military. it is an initiative which has been given a boost and has been carried forward by the support of parliament, and in particular by mr fava and mrs sanders-ten holte. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from the various political groups and the whole rett committee for their support and backing throughout the many discussions we have had. i would like to point out that an initiative which, when we launched it, aroused enormous scepticism in many of the member states of the union, which aroused great opposition in some quarters, will in the end enjoy widespread support. it should be remembered that all the member states support this initiative and have shown this in the adoption of the latest decisions in the council, and i hope that this will also be the case in today's vote. i would also point out that the various sectors of the industry concerned (air navigation service providers, airlines, equipment manufacturers, airports...) are aware of the opportunity offered by this initiative, an opportunity to promote a market of greater dimensions, greater capacities and, above all, that it will allow us to be leaders and work on the definition of new concepts of air navigation and air traffic control for the star 21 initiative by the year 2020 and even participate, collaborate and combine our proposals with the proposals of the united states to promote a safer system. mr fava insisted on the safety aspect which is a key element in this initiative, safer systems for the future but with more appropriate technology to allow a safer and more efficient use of airspace and all this, i repeat, will result in greater safety. i would also like to say something very important, namely that the trade unions, especially those of some of the key players in this field such as air traffic controllers, have also finally seen the advantages of such an initiative and in that sense i welcome the joint statement made by the trade unions and employers on the final text agreed, a final text in which eurocontrol - one of the key elements in the discussion - also finds its role and responsibility as an organisation with experience and knowledge absolutely essential for the development of the single european sky. i am aware that there were some who doubted the willingness of the member states to take specific steps, and today the rapporteur, mrs sanders-ten holte, has indicated that we will be following very closely the progress of the member states in implementing this single european sky. i think that the text we have finally agreed on is a balanced text, a balanced text which will certainly evolve in the future, but we must be aware that we are carrying out a real revolution and a very important step forward in the construction of europe through the realities. the concept of sovereignty over airspace, where we are going to regulate and act according to common rules in an integrated system, is a tremendous step forward which we cannot minimize, and therefore the fact that the member states continue to maintain - as they do in the text we have finally agreed - the guarantees to accept this change, seems to me to be the appropriate counterpart if we want to continue to take steps forward, knowing that the construction of europe is not something that can be done in a day, but is a process in which we must continue to move forward in a consensual way with the support of all the states, because it is not a question of leaving anyone behind. ladies and gentlemen, i know that there is still work to be done - and i repeat: there will be new proposals in the coming years - but i believe that today we are opening up new possibilities which mean making the most of the prospects offered to us precisely by our membership of a body called the european union, that is to say, making the most of the european added value. and that is what we are doing today to have an airspace which can be managed more efficiently but, above all, in a safer way, more respectful of the environment, at the service of the citizens and which represents, i insist, a step forward which, in some respects, is almost revolutionary. i would like to thank the council for the position it has taken in these discussions over the years - the first meeting was held in january 2000, which was one of the first things i did - four years in which we have all been able to evolve and come to an agreement on rules that will allow us to take forward this initiative which, as i remind you, will also affect swiss and norwegian airspace. switzerland and norway have also been fully involved in the discussions we have had over this period and i would once again like to thank the rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs, all the members of the rett committee, the parliament and the council for their contributions which have undoubtedly improved the final result.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to start by thanking the two rapporteurs, mr fava and mrs sanders-ten holte, and i really do want to do so. i think that you have fought in an excellent and dedicated way, especially in the final phase, where it sometimes seemed that parliament was the only one fighting on this issue, because the commission had already given up its fight. if you look at the beautiful brochure published in 2002 with the commissioner's foreword, it said: the time is right. and then there are the many proposals which, unfortunately, have not yet been enacted into law. that is why i am a little reluctant to talk about a historic moment or a crowning achievement. it's a first step, at best. ladies and gentlemen, let's not kid ourselves. we are discussing a subject for the third time in parliament and if the citizens were to hear this, they would not believe it at all because they would think that this should have been resolved long ago. we have no borders on the ground anymore; i can get in my car and drive from berlin to paris or from paris to rome without being checked. but where it is absolutely necessary, in the sky, where it is the case that there are cross-border flights every day, we do not have this situation. it is, unfortunately, and that's the funny thing about it. that the council, in 2002, in march, at its meeting in barcelona, explicitly stated and recognised the need and called for 'a single european sky'. and the council has blocked every possible way to the end. i say this so clearly because i have spent a long time considering whether i can agree to the conciliation procedure. there were two central points in our view, the two big issues: we wanted more security, and we wanted to create more efficiency in the sky. we knew that both issues were closely linked, that on the one hand cooperation between civil and military aviation had to be organised, and on the other hand that finally - and this is what the commission's brochure says so beautifully - that the fragmentation had to be stopped. the fact that mr fava has mentioned 41 air traffic control areas in the member states alone, that seven air traffic control areas have to be passed on a short flight from brussels to rome, all these are potential dangers, but at the same time they are also reasons for unnecessary delays. both of these central points have been blocked by the council for a long time. i am sorry to say, commissioner, that when the common position was returned to committee, it was your representatives who said that it was a conservative position of the council, but that it was the big one. if parliament had not been so firm and if the two rapporteurs in particular had not been so committed, we would not have succeeded in at least getting things started: that there is some cooperation, some consultation, some understanding, some common dialogue between all the users. and that there is also a clear mandate to the member states, linked to the statement - and this was the crucial point for me - that if nothing changes within the next five years, we remember that the member states have had decades to create functional airspace blocks, so if nothing changes within the next five years, we must and will improve, and then we must not leave the competence on this issue to the member states. in this respect, this was the main reason why i said that it was better to make a start, to take the sparrow in hand at the moment, because there was nothing else to be had. but i want to make it very clear that i have not lost sight of the pigeon on the roof, and i would like to ask you all to continue to work hard as the european parliament to ensure that this single european airspace is not just a vision but actually becomes a reality one day. we need it, whether with or against the member states.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and cooperation. commissioner, you and we had a vision that in the future we would be able to fly directly from a to b in europe, that capacity would be used much better, that delays would be reduced significantly and that we would radically minimise the risk to safety by creating soon a few functional airspace blocks in europe the end of the patchwork carpet in the european skies. it came out a single sky "light". it was obvious that there was no other way of achieving political agreement, and the agreement between the council and parliament was reached at the last minute, literally five minutes to midnight. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet ready to take a decision on the matter. the council of ministers had the clear impression that the national view still prevailed. the result: the direction is right, but we have clearly flown too short. the european parliament has had to take account of national circumstances, particularly in military-civilian cooperation, and has actually abandoned the concept of flexible use of airspace. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the air transport sector. a direct flight from rome to brussels is no longer a problem in navigational terms, but it will not be possible in the future. this is economic and ecological nonsense. it is a step forward that the member states have recognised for the first time that the safe and efficient use of airspace is only possible through cooperation between military and civilian users, whatever the future arrangements may be. but also with regard to the heart of the single sky - and i can only agree with my colleague on this - with regard to the functional airspace blocks, the result was not what was needed, because a genuine community solution, a clear decisionmaking power of the commission, would have been necessary. unfortunately, that was not to be. the member states have the final say here too. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the airspace for the provision of services to airlines. i also hope, as my predecessor did, that the commission will follow developments closely and review the situation after five years and, if necessary, propose changes to the system. the member states can no longer avoid responsibility, as they have done in recent decades, but are subject to targeted monitoring. parliament and the commission have high expectations. the conclusion: although the result is not the quantum leap in air transport we had hoped for, as we were told, the first steps have been taken: we can hope for more europe in the future. with regard to the proposed unification of lower airspace and the creation of a single transeuropean airspace, i hope that the subject of flexible use of airspace and of course functional airspace blocks will be raised again ... (the president withdrew the floor from the speaker.)
mr president, madam vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to join in your thanks, because you had the idea for this unified sky. they have fought their way through the high-level working group and overcome some national concerns, and while my colleague mr schmitt is right in his criticism of what has come out of the conciliation process, we all agree that we have achieved a fundamental change of system. in the past, it was a cooperation under eurocontrol, but only under eurocontrol. the member states were sovereign, there was no community law, and each state could invoke its own sovereignty and escape all supervision. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and we have the commission as the guardian and administrator of community law, so that no member state can say: we are not doing something quite right at home in airspace control, in security measures, but that is not the commission's business. no, there is a clear shared responsibility and the commission is at the heart of the implementation of the new legislation. i think that is a great step forward and one that we should welcome very much. i believe that this will reduce waiting times in the skies, at airports, for the benefit of passengers, for the benefit of airlines. we will be more successful ecologically because any loop that is flown too much is a disaster for our environment, and we will be safer because we will overcome the fragmentation of the technical devices and cooperation that we have. i must say to my socialist, post-communist colleagues, of course, that i cannot subscribe to this belief that air traffic control services should be a public service. but if we look back over the past few years, where has there always been a ministry by design? where did the planes get stuck? i always think of a country with civil servants in air traffic control. government employees do not necessarily mean better and more efficient use of airspace. commissioner, let us discuss this together if we have the opportunity. i think that after this legislative act - perhaps in two or three years' time - we need a new initiative to achieve competition among air safety services, because there too competition is needed to increase efficiency.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament once again for its support for the commission in carrying forward the galileo project. the piétrasanta report is further proof of this, by approving decisively the action we have taken over this period and by encouraging us to go on. i would like to thank you, and i repeat, i would like to thank you for your support and i would also like to thank mr piétrasanta in particular for the work he has done. i would point out that at the moment, as you know, the galileo joint undertaking is fully operational and has been since the summer of 2003. its two main tasks are, on the one hand, to select the future galileo concessionaire - we have on the table four offers which were received in december 2003 following the publication of a concession notice last year - and these four offers prove the genuine interest of four consortia to take over this project and, therefore, the genuine interest of the private sector in the galileo project. the second element we are working on is in the oversight of the work undertaken by the european space agency on in-orbit validation. the first experimental satellite will be launched before the end of 2005 and the second satellite will be ready for launch in the first half of 2006 because we have to start sending out the test signals, to ensure that the signals that were agreed to us at the time by the relevant international body are maintained. as regards relations with third countries, to which mr piétrasanta referred a moment ago, we are seeing a spectacular increase in interest, which confirms once again that both the commission and parliament, which have never doubted the galileo project, were right and that those countries which had concerns or doubts and which for a long time had difficulties in promoting the galileo project had no justified reasons for doing so. we have signed an agreement with china, we are well into negotiations with india, brazil also wants to take part in the galileo project, not to mention cooperation with russia and, of course, with the united states. with the united states we have virtually solved all the problems of compatibility with the gps system precisely through cooperation between systems which makes it possible to strengthen and improve the signal and the corresponding performance. in that sense, the last meetings we had at the end of last year have already settled practically all the issues, there is only one point left to be settled on the open signals and we are very close to solving it and we hope that tomorrow and the day after, at the meeting we have in washington, we can finally settle the matter. i would therefore like to thank the honourable member for the report he has produced, and i would like to thank parliament for the very clear support it has given over the years to this initiative of the commission, which has been a hard fight, sometimes overcoming difficult difficulties, but i would say that it is on the right track. as i said a moment ago, with regard to these three projects: 'one sky', which is under way, galileo is perfectly launched, and 'maritime security' which is out of the blue, we have now a whole package that protects and supports us, not only in the european union but at international level. mr president, if i may say three, those would be the three tasks, the three jobs we have achieved - and i say we will have because we have achieved it together - a team, the commission team, and once again i want to thank the services to which i referred, from the director-general to all the responsible persons who have acted and worked throughout this time - but of course with the invaluable cooperation of this parliament which has given us its support systematically and, of course, at the end also, the cooperation of the council, because without the council, the thing does not work; the community triangle, once again.
the commission has already done so. in the last few days we have heard a statement from the united states that the americans want to go into space massively and invest again very much. the colonization of the moon, a mission to mars - we now have images of mars every day - and i believe that galileo is a very important and good sign for the economic and technological future of europe. i am also looking a little far ahead at this year's european elections. the question is always: what does europe bring to people? what does europe bring to the citizens? here we can illustrate that galileo brings together european forces only together can we achieve such goals in the economy, in technology, for the positive, for the useful for the future of a common europe. it is now urgently necessary - and the problems have been outlined - to move forward with the problems of implementation, including with the americans. a lot has been overcome. the european parliament has always supported the commission, the council has been supportive, and now we must decide quickly on the calls for tenders, we must quickly install this system so that we can then work with it, and we must create the appropriate framework conditions, particularly in the structures. i would like to make a point here that is important to me. the future decisions on the structures of galileo, which we will also be debating in this house, must be effective, but it is also necessary that the european parliament retains its share of responsibility and does not let this booklet be taken out of its hands. i may be asking for more support from the commission in this debate, but together i think we have shown that europe, that the european parliament, is united in this objective. they have always had a supporter here, and that is why we should also work together on this point to ensure that the european parliament remains responsible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to congratulate mr piétrasanta in particular. as my colleague on the committee on industry and research, we worked well together, he was a sympathetic and kind colleague and was open to all suggestions, concerns and questions from colleagues. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. some people had to smile at some of the statements and forecasts, but i think galileo is a model for the future and it will also succeed in generating a return on investment. i think that is also clear from the fact that there are now four responses to the call for tenders. i remember . two years ago, things were very different and there was a lot of doubt that the industry would be able to finance itself. now we're about to open the files and announce the results. i can only applaud that. this report by mr piétrasanta actually contains all the important elements. i would just like to make one further point. i have already tabled amendments in committee and i have one for the plenary. i'm sorry, but this is very important to me. there are these rescue and relief services functions that need to be implemented. cospas-sarsat is a familiar term, but there is also the immarsat-e system, which has clear advantages over cospas-sarsat in many respects: fast response times, more accurate positioning, constant availability, 100% coverage with galileo, 100% coverage of the earth's surface. this is an important system for people in distress at sea, because this information is very detailed and the rescuers can reach it in a very short time. i mean, you should think about it, and some organizations, including military organizations -- like nato -- and member countries are already equipping their transall transport planes, helicopters and naval ships with this system. i think it is also helpful for private individuals, and both systems can certainly exist in parallel. i hope that this implementation will continue and that my colleagues will follow up my amendment which is still pending tomorrow. thank you very much, and yves: i wish you all the best for the future, you have something planned, we will miss you.
the commission has already done so. if we have anything to say, please do so without delay. i would therefore have liked to have had a discussion of the state of play of galileo some time ago and to have had a more regular follow-up. the commission's 2002 communication is already obsolete in 2004 due to the development of programme translation. we cannot go on at this pace with the latest information, because i fear that any delay in the development of galileo will cause serious problems for the planned launch in 2008. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we're still on schedule with galileo, but we have to stay on schedule. however, this must not affect the due diligence required in the examination of tenders submitted by candidates. we must advance the whole process, and of course make the most of galileo. only then can we convince internationally. the signing of the eu agreement with china on its participation in galileo was a very important step in this respect, and others will have to follow. the commission has now been given a mandate by the council to negotiate with israel and india, which are due to begin in february. so we are making good progress on the bilateral agreements. it is also of great importance, as described in the relationship with the usa, to find a common basis for cooperation. in this context, the interoperability of galileo and gps is a challenge that needs to be addressed and requires increased efforts on both sides. overall, there has been a significant recent progress and i hope that future developments will also justify the great trust placed in galileo worldwide. finally, you are right, mrs de palacio. galileo is the third pillar of your personal recipe for success. i would like to congratulate mr piétrasanta on his excellent report, and i would like to congratulate him on his excellent report.
mr president, my dear mr harbour! i can agree with you. captain zappalà and captain berger have led us to a safe harbor after we had to pass through rough seas at times during this conciliation committee. i can also say that in the end i am quite satisfied with the result we have achieved, even if we, like everyone else, would have liked to have achieved more, that is clear. but we have achieved a great deal, and as a social democrat i must say clearly that we have also received the approval of both the commission and the council. the fact that we have been able to enforce the criteria - sustainability, environmental protection and social aspects, including the special provisions for people with disabilities, for example - and have finally received the approval of the commission and the council is a good thing and i think we are doing very well. we would have liked to have done more in this area, but we have certainly achieved these criteria as a means of controlling the tenders. we have thus ensured that not only the cheapest bidder always wins the contract, but the most advantageous one. the cheapest is not always the cheapest, and mr zappalà has made it clear, but it is also a question of quality. we have also been able to achieve another aspect in this context, which was also very important to me and which i have also mentioned again and again. by allowing the public authorities to decide for themselves whether and which criteria they wish to include in the tender, we have succeeded in strengthening local self-government. the commission has also taken the initiative of proposing a new regulation on the harmonization of the conditions for the award of public contracts. thank you again to maria berger for the very good work. we have achieved something good, and we can say that with confidence, even though, as i said, more would have been better.
mr president, commissioner, mr zappalà, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i'd like to join in the thanks. if we compare the speeches that have been made here, it seems that we are talking about different ports where this ship has arrived. i'd like to show my picture of this port. the epp group has in fact initially rejected the common position. we believe that a number of substantial progress has been made in the conciliation procedures in our direction, and this will enable us to accept this conciliation result at the third reading. i think that the improvements achieved are due above all to a much more market-oriented approach to this compromise proposal than was the case with the common position. the progress of this opening up of public procurement by the internal market will be maintained, even extended. we were afraid that the exaggeration of the ecosocial criteria would lead to a further deterioration of the internal market compared with the situation achieved in 1993. this was averted by the brilliant presidency of mrs cederschiöld, but also by the very substantial help of the commission, and that is why we can agree to this compromise result. we didn't get everything we wanted to get. the proposal still contains a number of very bureaucratic rules, some very complicated rules and vague wording. in this respect, it is not quite in line with what we have undertaken to do in the area of better regulation. i think it is also a step towards the lisbon objective and i am glad that the commission has made such a substantial contribution here, something we are missing in many other legislative proposals. i thank you all very much for the good cooperation. it is good that some of the things that are started in one legislature can be finished in the same legislature, and in that respect we are all leaving this chamber today with a great deal of relief.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to thank mrs avilés perea, who has carried out her difficult task as rapporteur with great diligence and thoroughness. the committee of the regions is the youngest and smallest eu body. in terms of its members, it is very heterogeneous in terms of political status and rank in the respective home countries. this is perhaps the reason why we had such a hard time with the discharge in 2001? the committee on budgetary control was informed of irregularities ranging from irregularities to irregularities just before it was due to make a request for the discharge to be given to the cor in 2001. the rapporteur, mrs avilés perea, pulled the emergency brake and recommended that the discharge be postponed and that the practices of the cor be examined, preferably by the court of auditors - a recommendation which was followed by the plenary. in the meantime, the rapporteur and the committee have carried out detailed work and are now proposing to grant the cor discharge for 2001. but this does not mean that the questionable activities of the cor have been forgiven and forgotten. they will probably reappear in the 2002 discharge, especially as the court of auditors will be carrying out a more detailed examination, which it was unable to do in 2001. the report by mrs avilés perea takes account of a number of olaf conclusions and makes clear demands to the cor. there's no indication of personal enrichment or loss of financial resources. the incorrect travel expenses bill has now been settled by reimbursement, but in future attendance lists and cost bills for members must be strictly maintained and controllable. contract award procedures shall be conducted in accordance with the rules laid down in the financial regulation. the institutional role of the internal auditor must be respected. the implementation of an action plan to improve administration and management has been announced by the cor president, including the handling of whistleblowers. the cor shall decide on any disciplinary action. the committee on budgetary control is very concerned about the level of unprofessionalism and improvisation which has prevailed in the administration so far. we will be following the improvements requested and promised with goodwill but also with the greatest attention, so that we are on the right track with this discharge for 2001 and encourage the cor to play by the rules.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after 10 p.m., i'll allow myself to get straight to the point without further ado. we have always said in all these months that the question of how to bring about structural changes in the commission and in the relations between the commission and olaf takes precedence over media one-day flights such as resignation calls. i believe that this position is still the basis of our policy. it is quite possible - and i am not at all against it - to discuss individual political responsibility of commissioners, but we must first of all conclude, on the basis of all the lessons we have learned from this eurostat case, that we must enable the commissioners to exercise political responsibility in the first place. the responsibilities, structures and information processes we have encountered in this case have been quite adventurous. i am pleased about one point, although i do not agree with it politically, but i am pleased about the clarity. there is the proposal from the liberals and jan, we can talk about it, but it is coming up again with the flag of political responsibility. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in the area of the environment. that's a clear alternative. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments which have been tabled by the committee on budgets. that is not the alternative that we social democrats want, to put it bluntly. but it also means that all that glittered at the commission was not gold, god knows, it was quite the opposite. what we have experienced in part there is that we have been presented with a proposal that is finally being put in writing that officials have to inform the commissioners about hand grenades lying around. well, wonderful, i must say. i thought that was standard administrative practice. if you have to write that down, what does that mean for the conditions in a store like this? i am not surprised by this, or at least not surprised, and i think it is important to make it clear that the commission must stop doing too little and too late. we are fed up with this and mr bayona de perogordo has mentioned the discharge for 2002. you'll have to deliver something by then. i have already said that if you do not do this, we shall have a few more fun days together until the end of your term!
the commission has already done so. never in my 17 years on the committee on budgetary control has a follow-up report on a discharge already granted to the commission left so many fundamental questions unanswered. the commission's report on the implementation of the single act, which was adopted by the council on 26 june, is a good example of this. it seems like the shadows of the past are catching up with us again. the rapporteur, mr casaca, has worked hard to complete the lengthy process of preparing this report. i would therefore like to thank him and the whole committee for their excellent cooperation. the main objective of this report is to identify and eliminate abusive practices in and around eurostat, such as so-called black money, questionable links between the contracting authority and the contractor, infringements of the financial regulation, lax handling of mobility schemes and more. if the commission had taken seriously the warnings of parliament in its february and march reports on eurostat, and had investigated what was wrong and informed parliament about it, the discharge would have been postponed from april to october. it is not a matter of the commission's being too slow, but of the commission's being too slow to take the measures which it is now trying to take, with some astonishing speed. the conclusion is again that there is a lack of information. and what about political responsibility? so far, no commissioner has made himself known. although some mistakes have been admitted, the clear admission is still pending. you can't shift responsibility with ignorance. we are not asking for a new commissioner to be appointed, but rather for the commission to be given the opportunity to put an end to this alleged ignorance by closing the information gap which still exists between the civil service, down to the highest levels, and the commissioners themselves. the commission had already set out rules in this respect in 1999. obviously, they are only on paper until now, unless what mrs schreyer has just told us comes true. i'd be happy to. the olaf fraud office cannot be used as an excuse for the commission's inaction. the commission has the normal and thorough duty of supervision. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is still in the process of drawing up a report on the situation in the community. we are also deeply concerned about the treatment of so-called whistleblowers. you have made numerous allegations of wrongdoing. their protection is not guaranteed under the existing system. why, in the face of such harsh criticism, has the committee not proposed the resignation of the whole commission or of individual commissioners? my answer is that europe is not doing any good if the problems that we have at eurostat continue. they must be cleared out, and they must be cleared out now and by this commission. we want to support the action plan and work together to ensure that such things do not happen again in the future.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. what does the european union have to do with the united nations? why is parliament reporting on this? is there nothing more important? does a parliament really have to deal with everything, including matters that are not so obviously on the agenda? this was the situation in 2002, when it was first suggested that parliament should draw up a report on the relationship between the european union and the united nations. we have hardly had any political debates on the relations between these two institutions, there have been seven lines of reports after european council meetings, where the united nations were mentioned somewhere in the back of the text, and the only active institution was the commission: quietly, quietly, effectively, as we know it, it paid 60% of the budget for development programmes and humanitarian aid. but it didn't have any major political implications, it didn't have any political claim -- it was very effective, but it didn't have a political message attached to it. then came the iraq crisis, and the american president at the time called the un irrelevant. that was the moment when this parliament said: 'this is an interesting subject, we want to make the european union's relations with the united nations more political. we want to draw up a report to invite the other institutions to consider a more political approach to relations with the united nations. and we are now, almost a year after this decision by parliament, at a point where we can sum up: the united nations is not irrelevant. even the largest country in the world is realizing that you need the legitimacy of the united nations to rebuild a state and to establish democracy, to do nation building. in our case, we can see that the commission presented a very important communication in september - for the first time a very political communication - which described the whole relationship between the european institutions, even looking a little ahead, in the light of a european constitution. the council is also much more active today in coordinating with the united nations, so i think that this day, this visit of the un secretary-general here to the european parliament, can be the beginning of more intensive political cooperation. what are the main issues that we need to discuss? firstly, today's message should be that the european parliament is committed to effective multilateralism. it is not because robert kagan once said that the european union is only for multilateralism because it is incapable of unilateralism. no, that is not our argument, but our argument is that the structure, the nature of the european union, is a multilateral approach. we have learned from the terrible wars of the 20th century that multilateral cooperation is the right way to build a peaceful, just future, and what we have learned in the european union applies to the united nations as well - that's why we are for multilateral approaches. that is the message that the european parliament should be sending today, and if it wishes to send that message, if it wishes to have a global impact, then we must first do our homework. and the heads of state and government did not do that in december, because one of the homework assignments is that we have a legal personality for the european union, so that it is not enough that the european commission can act through the community, is a member of the fao, has a seat and a voice, but that we cannot act in all political matters without a legal personality in new york, in nairobi, in geneva and in vienna. we need the legal personality of the european union. we also need the european foreign minister, and this european foreign minister must combine our policies, those of the council and those of the commission in one person and act internationally. the commission's proposal is that the european union should have a representative office in the country, not a commission office, a council office or an acting council presidency. we need an external representative office, and this is what parliament is proposing. we should also continue the debate after the visit of kofi annan. we need an annual report from the commission which will make us, as a parliament, discuss the political priorities here every year, to see where we are going, what we have achieved and what we have not. we need clarity in the budget so that we know which institutions, agencies, funds we are giving money to and which we are not. and i think that what jean monnet once said - that europe should be the contribution to a better world - fits very well with the message of kofi annan at the last general assembly, where he said that the united nations is the contribution to a better world. the fact that we are combining the two today is an ideal situation, and that is why this day is very important for europe and for the united nations. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report is certainly one of the high-profile subjects of our parliament. the report could be accepted if there were not such a gap between theory and practice, between text and reality. the report refers to a european constitution which does not yet exist and whose draft is unfortunately not geared to disarmament and civil conflict resolution but rather to increased arms control and global intervention capacity. the report is a spearhead for multilateralism and the strengthening of the role of the un, which is right. but he refrains from criticizing the aggressive unilateralism of the united states, which opens the door to violence and arbitrariness. as the war in iraq shows, no lie is too dangerous to justify a preemptive war. whoever follows the war is a willing man, whoever does not, is an unwilling man. this is an attempt to divide the 25 states of the union. the united states' arrogant disregard for the un has proved to be a miscalculation for which the international community must pay, as the present situation shows. the eu is the only constant in the demand for reform in an increasingly uncertain world. the eu is well advised to deepen its relationship with the un rather than strengthen nato. the report stresses the importance of development and cooperation, but it should be clearer here. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european centre for the development of vocational training. to eradicate violence and terrorism from the soil, we need the highest level of performance and greater efforts. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i thank the rapporteur, armin laschet, for his excellent report, and this report should have a large majority in this house today. the need for joint action by the world community has been stressed by many speakers, because otherwise we cannot solve many problems. i would like to make a specific reference to the worldwide pollution and poverty reduction. these are also things we can only do together, and amendment no 7, tabled jointly by the epp group and the spe group, once again underlines the importance of water supply. but i would like to address a subject - and draw commissioner patten's particular attention to it - which has not been discussed so much before, namely the joint action on human rights in the field of modern medicine and biotechnology. parliament adopted a very good report by mr robert evans of the socialist group a few months ago on the fight against the illegal trade in organs. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make a proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. the european parliament has also repeatedly stressed that it is against human cloning and that we need a un initiative on this matter. we are following very closely the debate in the un bodies. and i would like to emphasize this once again, commissioner patten, that the european parliament is supporting the costa rica initiative, which is also supported by over 60 other members of the un. amendment no 8 makes this clear again. i think we should emphasize again, especially in the presence of kofi annan, that this is an important new task for the un, because there are new developments and we need new answers.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am told by my italian colleagues that in paragraph 35 of the un report you said 'respinto' and 'respinto' is to be 'rejected'. but this has been adopted by the large majority of the house and the socialists, and we ask you to correct this in your lists.
mr president, as the group's shadow rapporteur, i would nevertheless like to make it clear once again that the only thing at issue is the postponement of the vote, but that the agreements we have reached between the groups will remain in place and will not be dissolved.
secretary-general of the united nations. mr president, thank you for that very kind introduction. members of the european parliament, excellencies, ladies and gentlemen and dear friends, i am deeply touched that you have honoured my friend and colleague, sergio vieira de mello, and the many other un staff who lost their lives in working for peace in the world. i am proud to accept the sakharov prize in memory of them. this prize for freedom of thought is not only a worthy recognition of the ultimate sacrifice that they made in the cause of peace. it is also a welcome acknowledgement of the kinds of people they were. the brave men and women we lost in baghdad on 19 august – un staff and others – were free spirits and free thinkers and also soldiers of humanity and of peace. earlier, president cox and i met some of the survivors of the attack and family members of those who were killed or injured. they are with us in the chamber now. i thank them for joining us today and i accept this prize in their name too. i also thank you, president cox, and all of you, as members of the european parliament, for inviting these special people to share this occasion. it is a gesture that speaks volumes about the solidarity of the european union with the united nations. like many who survived the blast, the united nations itself carries deep wounds. but our determination is stronger than ever, and we value the solidarity of friends like you. you showed your commitment this morning, when you adopted a resolution to strengthen the eu’s political and financial support for the united nations. in its long history, europe has seen more than its fair share of war, tyranny and terrible suffering. but europeans have replaced that with a future of hope. you have pursued the path of peace through multilateralism. and today, the european union is a shining light of tolerance, human rights, and international cooperation. after 1 may this year, that light will shine even brighter. when you enlarge to 25 member states, you will cross a divide between east and west that once seemed unbridgeable. enlargement is the greatest force for peace on the european continent. (applause)the hope for further enlargement in years to come promises to build other bridges of cooperation and understanding – including between the west and islam, and between peoples who have fought each other in bloody wars. as time goes by, the continent is also experiencing an enlargement of what it means to be european. i look forward to the day when europe rejoices as much in diversity within states as it does in diversity between them. (applause)many of your societies are already very diverse. but all of your societies – and many others around the world too – will become more diverse in the decades to come. this is the inevitable result of the movement of people across international borders. that movement is not going to stop. as an international community, we need to manage the movement of people across borders far better than we do ... (applause) ... not just for the sake of those who move, but for the sake of the countries they leave behind and those they travel through and those they migrate to. people migrate today for the same reasons that tens of millions of europeans once left your shores – they flee war or oppression, or they leave in search of a better life in a new land. those who are forced out of their homes – the refugees who flee in fear for their safety – are our collective legal and moral responsibility. we have an agreed legal framework for their protection – the 1951 refugee convention. however, when refugees cannot seek asylum because of offshore barriers, or are detained for excessive periods in unsatisfactory conditions, or are refused entry because of restrictive interpretations of the convention, the asylum system is broken and the promise of the convention is broken too. (applause) your asylum system needs the resources to process claims fairly, quickly, and openly so that refugees are protected and solutions found for them. european states need to move towards a system of joint processing and sharing of responsibilities. along with others, the eu must also help strengthen the capacity of poor countries to provide protection and solutions for refugees. after all, seven out of ten refugees seek refuge in developing countries, where resources are far more stretched and human rights standards more uneven. if we ignore this fact, there is a missing link in our approach to refugees – as professor gil loescher, who survived the baghdad blast and is with us here today, has rightly pointed out. most immigrants are not refugees. we call them voluntary migrants – and some of them truly are. however, many leave their home countries not because they really want to, but because they see no future at home. (applause)it is our shared duty to do what we can to ensure that there are more opportunities in developing countries. if we truly forge a global partnership for development, in order to meet the millennium development goals, we will do a lot to reduce the incentive for people to leave. your asylum systems are overburdened precisely because many people who feel they must leave see no other channel through which to migrate. many others try more desperate and clandestine measures, and are sometimes injured or even killed – suffocating in trucks, drowning at sea, or perishing in the undercarriage of aircraft. the lucky ones who do get in often find themselves at the mercy of unscrupulous employers, and alienated from society. some resort to people smugglers to assist their journey. others fall victim to traffickers – especially women, who are forced into prostitution in a modern form of sex slavery, and become acutely vulnerable to hiv/aids. this silent human rights crisis shames our world. it also generates billions of dollars for shadowy networks of organised criminals, who subvert the rule of law in all societies where they operate. it is the sovereign right of all states to decide which voluntary migrants they will accept, and on what terms. but we cannot simply close our doors, or shut our eyes to this human tragedy. the situation is all the more tragic given that many states which close their doors actually need immigrants. (applause from the centre and left) here in europe, your birth rates and death rates have dropped dramatically. your populations are getting smaller and growing older. without immigration, the population of the soon-to-be 25 member states of the eu – 452 million in 2000 – would drop to under 400 million people by 2050. some states – such as italy, austria, germany and greece – would see their populations drop by around a quarter. that would mean that one in three italians, for example, would be over the age of 65 – nearly double the proportion today. were this to happen, jobs would go unfilled and services undelivered. your economies would shrink and your societies could stagnate. many other countries – from japan, to the russian federation, to south korea – face the same problem. there is no simple solution to this problem. but immigration is inevitably an important part of the solution. (applause from the centre and left)i would therefore encourage european states to open up greater avenues for legal migration ...(applause from the centre and left) ... for skilled and unskilled workers, for family reunification and economic improvement, for temporary and permanent migrants. poor countries reap benefits from migration too – through remittances. the amounts which migrant workers send back to their countries of origin are growing fast. in 2002, in formal remittances alone, migrants from developing countries sent back at least usd 88 billion to their countries of origin – that is 54% more than the usd 57 billion those same countries received in overseas development assistance. (applause)do not get me wrong, i do not pretend that migration is without problems. immigrants bring to their host communities different cultures and customs, different languages and religions. this is a source of enrichment, but it can be a source of discomfort – and even of division and alienation. the challenge of integration is real. almost every large new immigrant group has been reviled to some degree in the early days of its establishment. the experience of some immigrants today is reminiscent of the hostility that the huguenots once faced in england, as did the germans, the italians and the irish in the united states, and the chinese in australia. but the longer perspective is almost always far more positive. integration is a two-way street. immigrants must adjust to their new societies – and societies must adjust too. the word 'integrate' literally means 'to make whole'. that is the imperative for europe today. integration of the immigrants who have become permanent members of european society is essential for their productivity and human dignity. (applause)it is also essential for the functioning of healthy, humane democracies. they cannot extract the labour of immigrants and ignore other aspects of their humanity. the great swiss writer max frisch said of the european 'guest worker programmes' of the 1960s: 'we wanted workers, but we got people'. acknowledging and responding to that reality is one of your central challenges – a reality that is reflected in the united nations migrant workers convention, which i urge european states, and indeed all states, to sign and ratify. (applause) migration can also cause challenges for the countries migrants leave behind. yes, they may gain remittances. however, if they lose contact with their diasporas, they can lose some of their best and brightest talent. this opens up new vistas for international cooperation. after all, just as developing countries often want to attract emigrants back home, developed countries often have an interest in immigrants returning home after a period of time. international cooperation on this and other issues is key to managing migration better. in the effort to build better international cooperation, you in the european union should be where you belong – in the lead. you have already given more thought than most regions to this issue – and the tampere framework is a basis on which to forge a common european policy. combating illegal immigration should be part of a much broader agenda – an agenda to harness the benefits of immigration, rather than vainly trying to stop it. but sometimes, the breadth of the agenda has been lost amidst shrill debates about clamping down on illegal immigration – as though that were the major purpose of migration policy. (applause from the centre and left) the public has been fed images of a flood of unwelcome entrants, and of threats to their societies and identities. in the process, immigrants have sometimes been stigmatised, vilified, even de-humanised. in the process, an essential truth has also been lost. the vast majority of immigrants are industrious, courageous and determined. they do not want a free ride. they want a fair opportunity. they are not criminals or terrorists. they are law-abiding. they do not want to live apart. they want to integrate, while retaining their identity. only through cooperation – bilateral, regional and global – can we build the partnerships between receiver and sender countries that are in the interests of both; explore innovations to make migration a driver for development; fight smugglers and traffickers effectively and agree on common standards for the treatment of immigrants and the management of migration. that is why i am particularly glad that, last month, the global commission on international migration was established. the commission is itself a welcome instance of north-south cooperation, co-chaired by distinguished public figures from sweden and south africa. i thank all states who are supporting this vital work and i hope it will help promote greater public understanding. above all, i hope it will win broad acceptance for a better normative and institutional framework for managing migration at the global level – a framework that has human rights at its centre. (applause)but the most essential ingredient of all is leadership. you, as members of the european parliament, have a vital role to play in providing that leadership. the message is clear. migrants need europe, but europe also needs migrants. (applause)a closed europe would be a meaner, poorer, weaker, older europe. an open europe will be a fairer, richer, stronger, younger europe – provided you manage migration well. (applause)we must not minimise the difficulties that migration can bring. but let us also rejoice in the enormous contribution that migrants have made in science, academia, sports, the arts, and government – including some of you as members of this parliament. and let us remember that, without migrants, many health systems would be short-staffed; many parents would not have the home help they need to pursue careers; many jobs that provide services and generate revenue would go unfilled and many societies would age and shrink. migrants are part of the solution, not part of the problem. (applause)they should not be made the scapegoats for a vast array of social ills. the european union’s anthem, beethoven’s 'ode to joy', speaks of the day when all humans will become brothers. if sergio vieira de mello were with us today – and, indeed, if andrei sakharov were too – they would say to you what i say to you: the people who move across borders today, in search of a better life for themselves and their families, are our brothers and our sisters too. let us treat them that way. (applause)in that spirit, in all our common endeavours, let the european union and the united nations be beacons of hope for a better future for all mankind. (the house rose and accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
council. mr president, it is a signal honour to take part in this sitting of the european parliament for the award of the 2003 sakharov prize to secretary-general annan and the entire united nations staff, and to commemorate in particular mr sergio vieira de mello and the many other un officials who lost their lives in the performance of their duties. i can think of no more appropriate designation of a prize for freedom of thought than the name of andrei sakharov. and i can think of no more fitting recipient of this prize than secretary-general kofi annan and his colleagues. the enduring value of the sakharov prize is that it evokes continually the memory and example of an outstanding human rights advocate who lived and worked in circumstances where such advocacy was considered an act of dissidence. this prize in his name sends out every year a clear signal of support from europe to those who are struggling for peace and human rights, often in the face of significant hostility and in conditions of personal risk. i believe therefore that the parliament has made a wise and kind choice in reflecting on and commemorating the enormous sacrifices made by un personnel in the cause of peace and justice. on 19 august 2003 we were all horrified at the appalling attack on the lives of un personnel in their headquarters in baghdad. those who carried out this attack struck a violent and cowardly blow at the people best placed and most committed to bringing relief to the iraqi people. the loss of sergio vieira de mello was a cause of particular sadness. in my own country, as in many others, the outstanding work done by mr vieira de mello on behalf of the un, especially in timor leste, was widely known and enormously regarded. i know that he would have made an enormous contribution as high commissioner for human rights. un personnel throughout the world perform heroic and often unheralded work. it is in many ways a pity that the prevailing image of the un derives so much from the moments of vertiginous political drama in and around the chamber of the security council. this image misses the depth of the commitment of many unknown un officials throughout the world, acting as peacekeepers, providing assistance to refugees, developing human rights capacity, coordinating emergency humanitarian assistance and protecting the rights of women and the marginalised. the millennium summit declaration referred to the united nations as ‘the common house of the entire human family’. un staff, in their daily working lives, demonstrate the truth of this description. (applause) we are indebted to secretary-general annan on many levels and for many things. this morning, of course, i would draw attention to the courage and the clarity with which he has addressed the challenges facing the multilateral system and role that migration policy can play in it. at the general assembly last september the secretary-general characterised the position to which the un had come as ‘a fork in the road’. and as recently as last weekend at the world economic forum the secretary-general noted that the conduct of international politics had become less favourable to the maintenance of a stable, equitable and rule-based international order and that the role of the un itself and the system of collective security were under serious strain. it is because of the urgency of this threat that the council has recommitted itself to effective multilateralism. a stronger, international society, a rules-based international order and strong international institutions are critically important eu objectives. central to this is the eu support for a strengthened un. intensified and effective cooperation between the eu and the un is a central priority for this presidency. it is imperative that the un be given the means to meet successfully the many and varied challenges of today. as the secretary-general said in his report last year on the implementation of the millennium declaration, human rights are universal principles, but inspiring as those principles are, they do not implement themselves. the multilateral system embodied in the un charter is the only way that human rights and humanitarian law can be effectively defended. (applause)it provides the only real means of addressing the varied threats of today: terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, poverty, hunger and disease; together with new, or rather growing, challenges such as migration – to which the secretary-general has made particular reference today. it is only through being multilateralist that effective action can be taken to meet the millennium development goals, for example, so that the glaring inequalities and unremitting human suffering which in turn create and foster so many threats to peace and security can be meaningfully addressed. it is entirely in character that the secretary-general did not use this occasion to indulge the plaudits that inevitably and rightly come with prestigious prizes such as this. instead he has chosen to direct our attention to the challenges of a major pressing issue, that of migration. this is an issue with which my own country has endured historical experience accumulated through generations who migrated from ireland and made lives for themselves abroad. it is now an issue of major global significance which needs to be put higher up the international agenda. globalisation has given rise to an unprecedented movement of people, in turn giving rise to unparalleled challenges. like the secretary-general i welcome the establishment last month of the global commission on international migration. un high commissioner for refugees lubbers attended the informal meeting of eu justice and home affairs ministers in dublin on thursday last, at which there was a constructive discussion of proposed european asylum and migration legislation. this was very useful and we look forward to building on this valuable dialogue with such an important partner, the united nations. in october 1999 the european council in tampere agreed on the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice in the eu, firmly rooted in our shared commitment to human rights, democratic institutions and the rule of law. this freedom is not the exclusive preserve of the union’s own citizens. it must also be available to those whose circumstances lead them justifiably to seek access to our territory. in its proposals and actions on immigration and asylum, the union is committed to taking account of both the humanitarian and economic aspects and to ensuring full respect for the human rights-based principles enshrined in the european convention on human rights and other international norms. we must confront this challenge with effective action based on our ambition in 1999 to complete this agenda by the middle of this year. for the european union, the united nations is more than a political affiliation. as the nobel committee stated in awarding the nobel peace prize to kofi annan and the united nations staff in 2001, it granted the prize ‘to proclaim that the only negotiable route to global peace and cooperation goes by way of the united nations’. we are deeply grateful therefore to the secretary-general for his ceaseless work in defending the multilateral system. we wish to record our deep appreciation of the un staff all over the world serving the cause of peace and justice, human rights and development. and we remember those among the un staff who have given their lives in this cause. therefore, mr. president, let me join you in commending the award of the sakharov prize to the united nations secretary-general and his staff. (loud applause)
commission. mr president, it is, on behalf of the commission, a particular pleasure to be able to say a few words today as the secretary-general receives the sakharov prize on behalf of the united nations. it is a particular pleasure because it is extremely difficult to recall another occasion on which the aims of an award and its recipient have cohered so perfectly. (applause) checking the statute of the prize, i found that it can be awarded for particular achievement in any of four fields: defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms, safeguarding the rights of minorities, respect for international law, and the development of democracy and the implementation of the rule of law. by my reckoning, that means we should today be awarding the prize four times over. it is being given, of course, in memory of sergio vieira de mello, and his life exemplified those values. its barbaric curtailment leaves the world a good deal poorer. sergio vieira de mello was an extraordinary man. i was privileged to see his work at first hand, in hong kong, in kosovo and in east timor. he was gallant, he was wise, he was dashing, he was principled and he was immensely effective. we are very fortunate that the un is blessed with other, equally talented individuals, and is led by one as well. (applause) kofi annan has made an immense contribution to furthering the effectiveness of the un – and its constituent parts – where it matters: on the ground, across the globe. under his authority, both in overseeing its peacekeeping operations, and subsequently as secretary-general, the un has brought protection, comfort and hope to millions. the secretary-general has done this in the face of unprecedented challenges to the authority and even the fundamental rationale of the organisation. he has consistently risen to and overcome those challenges, unflinching and with his dignity wholly intact. right from the start, with the renewal of the united nations plan for reform, through the review of peacekeeping operations, the millennium report, the call to action on hiv/aids and the establishment of the current panel on threats, challenges and change, the secretary-general has ensured that our collective focus is in the right place at the right time. he does so once again today with his words on our obligation to develop a viable humane approach to asylum and immigration. i make this point as one, like many in this house, who is a descendant of migrants – in my case, of those who fled from the famine and hunger in ireland in the 19th century to which the minister referred. the secretary-general has reinvigorated the staple work of the un institutions, the work that is done by those all-too-frequently unsung heroes: promoting economic development, feeding the hungry and educating the world. and he has ensured that this work responds flexibly to challenges never imagined by the founders of the un: political challenges, military challenges, even medical challenges. i do not think that it is an exaggeration to say that the secretary-general’s personality and wisdom exemplify all our warmest and highest aspirations for the institution that he leads, the institution which he has served with such distinction for so many years. like all members here today, i salute the un and i salute the secretary-general with admiration and humility. i also commend his speech and the sentiments which underpinned it to the elected members of this parliament and to those who elect them. (applause)i hope that in the months ahead these are arguments that we hear put with compassion and commitment to those who will, i trust, be doing their democratic duty. (loud and sustained applause)
mr president, mr secretary-general of the united nations, mr president of the council, mr high commissioner, members of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! this is a significant day in the history of the european parliament. the european people's party, the european democrats, warmly welcome you, mr kofi annan, secretary-general of the united nations. we have voted with pleasure, not only for political reasons but also with our hearts, in the conference of presidents and here in the house, that you, mr secretary-general of the united nations, should receive the sakharov prize for 2003. we congratulate you warmly and we remember at this hour sérgio vieira de mello and the many who lost their lives in a criminal terrorist attack in baghdad, we remember the many who lost their lives in the service of the united nations, and we express our sympathy and solidarity especially to the relatives who are here today. the united nations staff are committed to human rights and democracy, and that is why the sakharov prize has rightly been awarded to the united nations. we think of andrei sakharov today, and if you visit his simple grave in the novodevichy cemetery outside moscow, you can still feel his great spiritual and moral strength, and we wish him, the russian people, that they follow his example, and that people in russia and around the world realize the ideals of andrei sakharov, this great physicist, philosopher and human rights defender. our thoughts today also go to his widow, who accompanied him for decades in exile, jelena bonner, who was awarded the schuman medal by our group, and we greet jelena bonner today in her simple, modest apartment in uliza skalowa in moscow. we would have liked to see the sakharov prize winners who are not with us today, leyla zana and oswaldo josé paya sardiñas and others, here today. (applause from the centre) andrei sakharov once said that the most important voice is the one that you cannot hear. and i wish the cuban people that they can make their voices heard. mr secretary-general, we share the same values, human dignity, democracy, the rule of law. there is much to be said about immigration, including integration. but all in all, we are on the same path, and i hope that you, as secretary-general, will live to see the day when the european union as a whole can also stand up for these values in the security council and the united nations. (applause from the centre)
chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. the commission is not i too would like to congratulate you and all those who work for democracy, peace and freedom in the united nations and those who have made such great sacrifices for this. i also regret that the laureates from cuba, burma and turkey are unable to be with us at this time because of the internal political situation. i believe that we must advance democracy and freedom throughout the world, because democracy and freedom are the condition for human rights on the one hand and for peace on the other. democracy and freedom are the pillars of a positive development. we had the opportunity earlier, as chairmen of the foreign affairs committee, to have a brief conversation with you. it has once again shown that the european parliament and the european union can really work together on joint projects, and we can cooperate very closely in policy, budgetary matters and in many other areas - whether it is water supply, education in the third world, infrastructure measures or the fight against epidemics. i believe that if we succeed in bringing the world's disadvantaged regions to a better standard in this way, we will also create the conditions for peace, freedom and human rights, and that is why we should cooperate here. the same applies to political objectives, to solving problems, whether in the middle east or cyprus. i have to say that i listened to your speech on migration with great admiration, but at the same time i also want to say that migration is an admission of failure, because we should solve the problems where people live. that must be the first point of departure. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that this is one of the most important political issues currently being discussed and debated in international politics. we often adopt resolutions which i believe are not of the same importance as this subject. we therefore expressly support the conclusion of this debate by a resolution.
commission. mr president, the european commission welcomes the european parliament's decision to draw up a report on the role and methods of rating agencies. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his initiative, which is timely. as you all know, the role of rating agencies is increasing nowadays. in the past, credit ratings focused mainly on sovereign debt. however, in the last decade, the role of credit ratings has become ever more crucial, with the growth of corporate bond issuances and the inclusion of references to credit ratings in several pieces of financial legislation, including banking legislation. besides, as everybody knows, recent major scandals have raised questions on the role of rating agencies in general: we cannot forget the enron case in 2001, or the recent parmalat case, among others. therefore, it is clear that it is now time to take action, as mr katiforis rightly pointed out. there are at least four issues to be resolved regarding credit rating agencies. first, the legal treatment of the question of access by rating agencies to inside information from issuers is currently unclear in europe. there is no harmonised european legislation, nor even any regulation at national level. if rating agencies are to have access to inside information from issuers, we should ensure that the same information is available to all rating agencies. i think mr katiforis’ report reflects this. another solution would be to prohibit rating agencies from access to inside information from issuers, as is done in the case of financial analysts. the second issue regarding credit rating agencies in the context of enron and parmalat concerns the level of skill of agency staff, as well as the transparency of their methodology. it would be sensible to think about measures to tackle this issue and we clearly agree with mr katiforis on this. with this is mind, a directive adopted by the commission last december, implementing the market abuse directive as regards fair presentation of investment recommendations, could be a good starting point. the third issue commonly raised is the lack of competition among credit rating agencies. in practice, the worldwide industry is nearly an oligopoly. we therefore welcome mr katiforis' call to promote more competition in europe. the establishment of objective criteria for entrance or development of other players in the industry might help. the fourth and last issue, probably the most debated, regards conflicts of interest for credit rating agencies and these take two different forms. on the one hand, there is a suspicion that the provision of advisory services by rating agencies to companies they rate might influence the outcome of the rating process. therefore, such advisory services should be disclosed along with the rating. once again, the directive adopted by the commission last december, implementing the market abuse directive as regards disclosure of conflicts of interest, could be a good starting point to tackle this question. the second conflict of interest, and the most controversial, relates to the remuneration of rating agencies by the companies they rate. if the rating agency is paid by an issuer, rather than by subscribers, it casts doubts regarding the possibility of 'downgrade rigidity' when ratings are updated. this question is not new but now needs to be resolved. we have to take action fast on these four issues. the european commission committed itself to that at the oviedo european council in april 2002. we have to respect our commitment before new scandals occur. the european commission will thus be able to take a position on the subject by the summer or autumn of 2004 at the latest. among other contributions, mr katiforis’ report will be an important element to guide us. in conclusion, the question remains of what the united states is going to do on this matter. we must be realistic. the top two worldwide rating agencies are american. it would be reasonable to take this into account, as mr katiforis rightly stressed. for the moment, however, the american securities and exchange commission is silent on the subject, despite calls for changes from congress. if the united states wants to achieve convergence with us before we adopt a position, we would appreciate having a clear view from its side on this crucial topic quickly. we will keep you informed in due course.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank you for the report by mr katiforis on the future assessment of credit rating agencies. what's this about? we have rating agencies that actually have a lot of power and influence over companies in the capital markets. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but rating agencies also rate countries, in germany, for example, the länder. the upgrading and downgrading of federal states naturally has corresponding effects on the taxpayer. i do not wish to criticize this, but simply to make a statement. we have three rating agencies in the market. i am also a supporter of competition and would welcome the introduction of additional rating agencies. however, i do not think that an administrative public solution is appropriate. if so, the market should produce more rating agencies or at least one european one. however, all attempts have failed so far. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament and the council are able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. i therefore consider the report by mr katiforis to be very important, since it is the first time that this subject has been dealt with in this form in europe. it is also important that europe address this issue. the current rating agencies are, i would say, all three anglo-saxon dominated. that's not a bad thing. but there are different financial structures within the european union and around the world, and there are different rules. not every rule that is correct on one side of the atlantic is necessarily applicable to the other. i think it is therefore very important that we take a step forward at european level. we should not look so much at what the americans are doing in this area, because the rating agencies want to do business in this part of the world. we must also see this in the context of basel ii. in the basel ii area, the use of the internal and external rating will be more widespread in the financing of smes. it will become normal, and the classic difference between external and internal rating will be that internal rating will be subject to financial supervision in the member states, external rating will not. the question is whether we can continue in the future to monitor only internal ratings and not external ones. i raise this question particularly because i hear from industry and the financial industry that it is very difficult for companies themselves to get the right information about their own ratings. there is no such thing as a normal customer relationship between companies and rating agencies. it is important in this context that we now ask the commission to analyse this issue, to elaborate on it, to state the current situation and to submit proposals. i therefore share mr katiforis' concern to a large extent. however, the result should be open. we should not be asking for registration or supervision now. that can be the end of this process. however, there may also be a corresponding self-commitment with corresponding transparency commitments of the rating agencies at the end. the commission should work on this. the credit rating agencies themselves may also be able to make proposals in this process. i think it is urgent - and the epp group supports this - that we start this process now, that we give critical support to it, and that the commission submits proposals in this respect in the middle of next year.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i would like to comment on some of the comments made by my predecessors on the need for freedom, flexibility and productivity in farms. we are not talking about 35 or 38-hour weeks here, but we are talking about the possibility of 55 or more hours in some countries. i have to say, i find this opt-out option absolutely absurd. these are 19th century figures, and i am convinced that the productivity of our farms does not depend on these figures, and that these figures do not make us the most modern and efficient economic region in europe. the main concern in the enterprises is the possibility of machine running times and operating times and not an unnecessary extension of working time. it is about modern forms of work organization. germany is actually a good example of how the social partners can work together to achieve modern forms of work, work organization and working hours. and that's why we've become the world's leading exporter. the figures, dates and times we are discussing do not seem to take into account the fact that there are workers who have children and families. because who can be away from home for 48, 55 or more hours a week? i would remind you that one of the aims of the working time directive should also be to serve as an instrument for reconciling work and family life. mr pronk said something very good about the opt-out, namely that it is a failure. if it had been an exceptional measure which was about to expire, then there would have been nothing to say against it. but now there are several countries which want to adopt this british model, unfortunately also germany, the netherlands, spain and most of the candidate countries which will join on 1 may. i believe that you have rarely found such public and citizen support as you have found in the judgments of the european court of justice on the clinicians. that is why it is important that we counteract any tendency towards renationalisation. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the guaranteed european standards are on the line, because if we allow renationalisation in this case, you can be sure that it will happen in many other cases in the next legislature. that's why we're gonna fight the beginnings. we want the precise legal framework you promised us. yes, you're welcome to join us, but don't back down!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not this report is based on two commission communications. both are indications of the commission's efforts to be active in the areas mentioned. they do not conceal the fact that the process under way is extremely contradictory. the commission's proposal is therefore justified in taking cautious and balanced steps. the commission envisages a number of options for the reform process, which are also included in the report. the rapporteur believes that the most important thing is and remains that any policy, any reform, must be aimed at fighting poverty, without any ideological blinders. the greatest challenge facing humanity in the 21st century will be to reduce and eventually eradicate poverty. the progress achieved so far is more than modest, however, and is being undermined or even destroyed by constant new setbacks. the report therefore deals with a wide range of options, similar to the commission's communication, although there are some differences in the emphasis given to the priorities of the commission and the rapporteur. although welfare provision is also controversial in the countries of the european union, it can nevertheless be considered more or less stable in these countries. but there are always problems. this is even more true and more sustainable in developing countries, where they often reach the brink of disaster. the european union's efforts should be directed above all to supporting and encouraging them to do so. while the commission and some of my colleagues strongly favour full privatisation, i would also like to make a plea, in the light of all the experience gained in the eu member states, for attention to be paid to cooperative solutions and private participation in the states, alongside the responsibilities of the public sector and the state. in the area of private enterprise, emphasis should be placed on the promotion and development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the foundation for new jobs and self-sustaining economic development in developing countries. i cannot agree with the proposals of my colleague deva on principle. the report is critical of the way things are and fails to take account of the necessary nuance in the reform process. they also do not reflect the main thrust of the report endorsed by the committee. finally, they fall short of the commission's willingness to engage in dialogue and are contrary to the process inherent in the reform process. i have tried as rapporteur to suggest and achieve what is feasible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
- the next item is the statement by the commission on avian influenza in asia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr byrne, i would like to thank you for your report. i am sure the commission has done its best. whether that's always what we want to read in a report, i'll leave that to you. i also wonder if we are always doing enough, and if what is called preventive consumer protection is really in our minds. and by that i don't mean just you, mr byrne, i mean all of us. i am also referring to the governments and your colleagues in the commission. i'll get to that. we have stopped imports from thailand in the european union as soon as we first heard about the bird flu. it would not have taken much imagination to say on the same day that the entire asian area would also be blocked. that would have been wise. to think in a domino effect and say thailand, then vietnam, then china, is perhaps not very clever. if you have the knowledge of how these countries trade, and how, for example, poultry, but also other animals, are traded and sold within the countries, it would have been reasonable. what bothers me is the endless reaction. we are always reactive. we have a bird flu, we react, and then for some reason nothing happens for a long time. we find dioxin in the poultry meat. we're going to respond. we find that shrimp and other products contain banned and toxic carcinogenic pharmaceuticals. we're going to respond. but we only react in the same second, and then we forget it right away. this is so naive, so infinitely naive, because we know that the animal husbandry conditions and the hygiene standards in the countries we're talking about, in the asian countries, but also in brazil, are a disaster compared to our standards. i would like to know how this is discussed at the commission table, as we ask this again and again as the european parliament. if we ask mr lamy to include consumer protection and hygiene policy as one of the priorities in the negotiations with third countries in discussions on the world trade organisation, i know that the maximum we can achieve is a warm smile. we can be satisfied with that. but if we don't change our system, we're going to end up in situations like this again and again, where we have a disease that we have to respond to, that scares our people and -- and let's be clear, ladies and gentlemen -- that will of course affect the economy. as mrs jackson said, most of the chopped chicken is either in burgers or in some frozen chinese dish. people are getting restless. they won't be buying these products for a while. and this, of course, affects our economy to a great extent. the reasons are very simple. the reasons are hygiene. but it's also because we've been too soft. i'm making this very clear. you know, mr byrne, i asked you a while ago, in connection with dioxin and other products, to say that there is a ban on imports from china, that there is a ban on imports from other countries, just to be disciplinary or educational. we are always nice and say that we must support the countries. this is a mistake. we shall be discussing the european centre for communicable diseases later. you have spoken of serious steps. i'm sure it'll all be wonderful, but it won't be wonderful for a few years. at the moment, it is of no use to us at all, the only thing that is of any use to us at the moment is to say that we are protecting the people of the european union, because we are working for them here. let's protect them! are we sure that the viruses that transmit the avian and avian influenza and the chicken plague are not transmitted to humans? have we done enough research? i am now on to my next point, mr president, and this will be my last. when we talk about the budget of the european union and the financial perspective, i always hear a lot about regional policy. and i hear a lot about funding and stuff. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the european union's future. i never hear that in this context. it is not one of the priorities of the european union either. i would be grateful to you, mr byrne, if you could ensure that one of the priorities of the financial perspective is to commit the member states to spending money to ensure that research is carried out on vaccines that can protect people from diseases that may come to us in the future.
the commission has already done so. you said the staff deserved a thank you. i'd like to join that. they say they're also working on the disease in the area. that's good. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the community, and whether he has not made a statement on the situation in the united kingdom. commissioner, you said that small farms were affected and that this could trigger a surge in industrialization. i believe that the industrial shifts that have taken place in these countries are precisely the conditions for this disease, because here native adapted varieties meet genetically oriented varieties adapted to industrialization, but which have genetic defects and have not been able to cope with this disease pressure. so again, if you are in favour of on-the-spot checks, which we are doing, then it has to be in a constant debate to address these issues. the hygiene standards in these large industrial plants, which are the ones exporting to us - not the small poultry farmers exporting to the european union - must also meet our standards. but this is not only possible by having border controls or by making them more stringent, and making them more stringent whenever it is obvious - as mrs roth-behrendt said - but we need qualified external protection. this means that protection does not start at the borders, but that in the countries that supply to us, we control our standards that we have here and enforce them there, so that we can ensure preventive monitoring and action in those countries to target production there as well. thank you. (applause from the centre)
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. about exactly one year ago, we were discussing sars in this circle. it was said then, as it is now, by many colleagues that globalisation and the european internal market, which are fundamentally positive, can only work well if we also take measures to protect human health. europe must act together here, because viruses and bacteria do not stop at the border. i would like to take the example of mr mulder. the airport is very, very close to the dutch border. that is why many dutch people fly from düsseldorf for their holidays, and many people from north rhine-westphalia fly from schiphol near düsseldorf. you can't explain to people that it makes sense that we have completely different security measures at schiphol than in düsseldorf. viruses do not adhere to the limits set by national laws. that is why i believe that we need more action at european level. a year ago i supported mr byrne in his call for the european constitution to include more powers to combat such threats. mr byrne often misses the mark, and when he does, i have told him so. but in this case, he's really right, and we should support him. we have not achieved what we wanted in the convention, but there is progress, and that is one more reason to support a european constitution, because then we can also better combat these dangers. i would like to conclude by referring to what mrs roth-behrendt said about research. it is true that we must do more for medical research, and we must not think only of products that can be made available in the short term. protecting human health is also a research goal worth getting involved in and spending money on, unless there's a company that wants to do it in the short term. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
thank you, mr president. i am not going to go into detail. i try to avoid repeating contributions we have made before, and i also try not to comment on the discussions on communicable diseases such as influenza, viruses and others. mr bowis began his introduction by saying that those who have help have hope and those who have hope have everything. then i feel very rich here this morning. then i have everything. because i have hope, and that's all. i don't have much more than hope. i hope that this centre we are discussing today will be operational very soon. mrs grossetête has made it very clear what this centre must be able to do to achieve something. it's basically the square of the circle. the centre must be located in sweden, a relatively small country in the north of the european union, and must maintain intensive contacts with all the member states, motivate the ministries of health of the member states to spend money and set up information networks, and at the same time maintain contact with the european commission and the european parliament. it's the square of the circle. but i have hope, and with mr. bowis, i have everything. mrs grossetête, i can only agree with you on every point when you say that it is important that we work quickly, that we are operational. but it also means that we need to have employees who are very independent, who work very unconventional and have the imagination and initiative. it's not something that's always taken for granted. looking at some of the other agencies we have set up in recent years, i have to say that the successes have not been as obvious. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce this new system. i also associate hope with a wish. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of communicable diseases, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action to combat them. but let 's be clear . most people in the european union do not die of communicable diseases, they die of cancer, they die of heart attacks, they die of cardiovascular disease, they die of strokes. how can it be left to chance whether someone who has a heart attack in berlin or madrid or anywhere else survives or not? how is it that there is still no best practice and no communication of best practice for cancer treatment in the european union? i think that's an intolerable condition. i wish we had been a little more ambitious and said we need at least the networking of best practice within the european union to combat the real diseases we are dealing with here at the moment. the european union would have been responsible for networking, and we could have done so. we could have had that courage. we didn't make it the first time. but i hope that in the second attempt we will be able to do so that it is no longer left to chance whether people with a serious disease survive, depending on whether they live in the north, the south, the centre or the flat country of germany or any other part of the european union. thank you. thank you.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to express my gratitude to the rapporteur, mr john bowis. he had a very difficult dossier indeed, because at the beginning it was not at all clear that our proposal would be accepted by the majority. for example, the german government was very skeptical at first. that's what i tell mrs stihler. the german government was perhaps more sceptical of europe than the british conservatives. mr bowis has managed to tackle such a controversial subject in such a way that we are now close to an agreement and that it is really possible to conclude this subject at first reading before enlargement. i think it is still a contradiction that we have very strong competences at european union level to combat animal diseases and can act directly, but that when it comes to combating diseases affecting humans and threats to human health, the first word that comes to mind is always subsidiarity. i am in favour of subsidiarity, i am not in favour of a european super-authority, i am not in favour of total harmonization of health care, but here it is right to act in a european manner. we have heard this morning in the debate on bird flu, and we have seen it in many instances. we must use the powers of the member states, but we must also bring this together in a european way. i think it's right that we take the pragmatic approach, that we start with communicable diseases and then see where we go from there. because that's the most pressing issue right now. i also think that what mr trakatellis said is very important, namely that the joint discussion and development of vaccination strategies must be a priority. the council is not present at ministerial level but at official level, and i would like to make one final comment: many of our colleagues have raised the subject of bioterrorism. i put a question to the council on this more than three months ago, and normally you would have had six weeks to reply. i'm still waiting for an answer. the issue of bioterrorism is too important to allow for such delays!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank mr garot very much for his own-initiative report on the development of agricultural incomes in the european union. i would like to thank him personally in particular for the open and constructive cooperation in the committee on agriculture. the member states are currently engaged in the process of implementing the luxembourg decisions on the reform of the common agricultural policy at national level. the starting point is as follows: the agricultural budget was capped by the decisions taken in brussels. this money must be distributed not only to farmers in the eu-15 but also to farmers in the eu-25. the commission will also be making a more differentiated use of the money available. this means that money from the first pillar, i.e. direct payments, should go to the second pillar, i.e. rural development. this, ladies and gentlemen, is what we have all been demanding. the report by mr garot is an excellent assessment in that it analyses the current basic conditions of agricultural income, also with a view to enlargement. the epp-ed group believes that the fundamental objectives to be achieved by the common agricultural policy are: firstly, to guarantee a decent standard of living for the agricultural population. secondly, to maintain a comprehensive agricultural activity throughout the european union by stabilising incomes. we therefore consider it justified, firstly, to maintain the level of public support for agriculture, in particular to reward its multifunctional services to society and to maintain the presence of farmers in all areas, as provided for in the first pillar. secondly, we believe it is justified that the community budget should guarantee employment, especially in the less-favoured rural areas, and that the adaptation of farms to the new requirements of society should also be rewarded, and by that we mean the second pillar. in order to implement these principles of the epp group, we have tabled a number of amendments through the committee on agriculture, which we were able to vote on - as mentioned at the beginning - in close cooperation with the rapporteur. we therefore propose, for example, the introduction of a system of disaster payments, as is already practised in other large agricultural countries. we are explicitly calling for as much of the money available as possible to be left with the active farmer. it follows inevitably that, in the national implementation of the luxembourg decisions, we will vote for the rule of implementation laid down therein, i.e. the company premium. finally, we demand that, if the derogation provided for in article 58 is chosen, this should not result in serious distortions of competition within european agriculture. finally, it should be noted that competitiveness and multi-functionality need to be re-examined and re-evaluated and that developments need to be taken into account. without sufficient income, no farmer is able to carry out his duties in the production of food and in the care of our garden of eden, which we have here in europe, thank god, in a qualified manner and in accordance with good professional practice. we must therefore use the funds available in the agricultural budget in a europe of 25 member states in such a way as to help active farmers to be competitive on the market. we must always bear in mind the need to give young farmers a head start and to give them entry-level opportunities. these are the challenges we must tackle more than ever. the common agricultural policy, adopted in june 2003, offers interesting opportunities for this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i congratulate georges garot on his excellent report. i do not have to repeat much of what has been said so far. it is more than overdue to talk about farmers' incomes. because they're consistently too low. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. one of the most important is that farmers still cannot get the market prices they need for their products and which would be justified. this is also due to the competition between the six or seven food companies that dominate the market, which is carried out on the backs of farmers. these corporations see the farmers as suppliers of cheap raw materials. this is also true of some dairies. the second is the ignorance, or even partial ignorance, of the consumers, that is, of most people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of foodstuffs is not compromised. the german farmers' association, which represents the interests of most farmers, also has its share in this. i think that the european union has not only blocked or delayed important reforms for far too long, but has in some cases actually prevented them. with his permanent, decades-long complaints, however bad the farmers' lot, he has almost immunized the public against the legitimate demands and needs of farmers. this is what many farmers tell me at events when some officials are no longer present. the reforms adopted last year are all the more important for the farmers. this should have happened years ago. the decoupling of payments from production was overdue. we have done our job here in parliament. it is now up to the member states to implement these decisions appropriately and finally to eliminate the inequalities between the various types of farming, such as dairy farming and agriculture. some numbers: so far, 20% of farms with 59% of the area and 25% of the jobs receive 73% of direct payments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the effects of the cap. we social democrats are in favour of compensation payments to farmers because they must be adequately remunerated for the services they provide to the general public in the framework of multi-functionality, which are not covered by the prices. however, this must be done in a way that is transparent, open and understandable to all taxpayers. we all need to ask ourselves: what is good food worth to us? we buy only the best and most expensive gasoline for the engine of our car. but for our own engine, for our own body, without which we cannot exist and which is supposed to work for at least 100 years without stuttering, it is mostly piepegal to us what we fill in there. as long as it's cheap and plenty. this is not the way. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the common agricultural policy. that is what we social democrats are committed to. thank you. thank you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report is based on the basic idea that citizens in the european community - and in all regions, which are very different in their structure - have a job and therefore a right to an income commensurate with their performance. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the report rightly points out that there are wide differences in the productivity of production in the european union, despite the fact that the climatic and other natural conditions are favourable for almost all products in europe. the main causes of the cost trend in recent years are well known. i expect the commission to take greater account of the cost structure it can influence in future reforms. i also expect the door to be opened to more investment and i hope that the continued diversity of programmes will one day lead to simplification and clarity. as in other reports, it is pointed out that direct payments to farmers are firmly embedded in income generation and cannot simply be switched off without the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs, as i believe some unfortunately wish. in europe, multiple work is increasing in rural areas, and therefore every euro that is not spent on structural planning and development in rural areas - i am talking about billions - is always associated with loss of income and jobs. it is therefore important to assess whether the work and the way in which the european agricultural model is handled leads to an adequate remuneration of european farmers and what this means. the rapporteur is not saying much about that. he's withdrawing because of lack of data. but i expect that as the market order continues to be shaped, the question will actually be answered: what is a reasonable income for farmers? in germany, farmers' incomes have fallen dramatically. in the last two marketing years, the community's share of the total market has fallen by 6.1% and 19.8%. this is a breakdown of the whole economic activity. there are two reasons for this bleak situation: on the one hand, floods and droughts, but much more - and this has already been mentioned here - it is the price war in retail food, in which farmers are unfortunately the most often losers. the decoupling of premiums from environmental requirements, the attempt to increase the role of the market in farmers' incomes and the payment of the non-standard benefits from public funds, how does this affect the distribution of production and thus employment and income? is it possible to ensure that the land is used for agriculture throughout? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i do not want that, ladies and gentlemen.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr garot, you have delivered a good report and it is to your credit that you have put the price of products back at the centre of the debate. we have a situation where, by decoupling, the distortions of prices caused by the premiums are eliminated in a twofold sense, firstly by having a price-suppressive effect and thus giving the receiving hand the opportunity to obtain cheap raw materials, and secondly by the unequal distribution of production and its link to production leading to a distribution whereby 20% to 25% of the holdings were entitled to 75% to 80% of these state premiums. now we have the decoupling, and that was a good step. this does not mean that there are automatically different power relations, but that there is an active price competition. it is not just the retail chains that are at issue here, but also the cooperatives, which, in some cases, are guided by farmers in the committees to carry out their price and market policies, and it is important that the so-called raw material - the agricultural raw material - should also be paid better. but it also depends - and you made that clear - that we are now talking about modulation, about a different distribution of these funds. the fact that some large rationalized enterprises receive more than eur 100 000 per worker as a state premium must be linked to the number of employees and also to the type of production through modulation. this must be developed into quality criteria so that public funds do not contribute to wealth creation and do not stimulate production in a good way, but that a farming economy in europe can continue to exist.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we had an important debate on agricultural policy and commissioner fischler was not present. that has been criticised, and it is regrettable. the commission is in the middle of a meeting on medium-term financial planning. it is a matter of fairness that i make it clear to the committee on agriculture that we considered it important that commissioner fischler be present at this meeting. we regret that there was an overlap. we have made efforts to prevent this overlap. we have not succeeded. that is why we have the unfortunate situation of having to have this important discussion without commissioner fischler.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i think that this report and the short debate which will now take place fit well into what we have discussed here, both in terms of the difficulties with the avian influenza and in terms of the report by mr garot, who has made clear the difficulties in european agriculture, but also the importance which derives from the multifunctional role it has been given, and which arises from the dominant factor of agricultural landscapes in the ecological and social overall budget for agriculture. the reason for this is that agriculture is in such a difficult position, whereas the european union is one of the largest importers of agricultural products and foodstuffs. why is only 5% of the funding allocated to agriculture in the sixth research framework programme - and this is the subject of this report - allocated to agriculture? the importance of agriculture is not taken into account here, and it must also be noted that the research indicated in this framework programme for agricultural research is largely geared to the rationalisation of production and less to the question of sustainability. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. but i would like to return to the considerations we had this morning, namely the avian influenza. you have to see that in these countries there is a conflict between industrial production and the breeds adapted to it and the traditional breeds that are found in these countries. they have developed an immune system against certain diseases, but now they have to deal with the genetic defects that exist in the immune systems of the races that live there. the result is that the diseases then strike here, and that then the native breeds are also cultured, that is, destroyed, and the genetic resources in these countries, which are essential, above all, for the subsistence economy and the food base of these countries, are also affected. you have to ask - and this would be a subject for research - why are these industries going to these countries in the first place? are they doing this to solve the problem of hunger there, or are they doing it because the conditions of production and the utilization of the capital invested there are better here? if you look at the situation, you see that most of the time these are not national industries and not national capital, but the capital comes from here. it comes from the industrialized countries, which want to do business there, and then we complain here - and mr garot does so in his report - that agricultural production is declining in our latitudes. it is no longer competitive because the social, environmental and hygiene standards in these countries are different. it would be extremely important to explore this comparatively. i have already spoken of the subsistence economy, which is an important basis of food in these countries, but also in the new eu countries - the countries of central and eastern europe. research should also be carried out in this context. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the social partners are able to take account of the needs of women in the labour market, and that the social partners are able to take account of the needs of women in the labour market. overall, we would like to point out that we expect agriculture to be given greater consideration in the preparations for the next one, the seventh research framework programme, and that what we have to look forward to in the agricultural reforms in the european union, but also in the changes in other parts of the world, will be accompanied by research that gives us insights into what our policy direction should be in the coming years and decades.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i fully support the own-initiative report on agriculture and agricultural research. i too believe that the issues for the future have been properly addressed on the basis of an analysis which preceded the own-initiative report. i hope, of course, as the previous speakers have said, that the commission will draw the right conclusions, since the common agricultural reform in europe in particular has brought about a paradigm shift towards effective scientific monitoring in the future. i think it is right, and i would like to stress this again, that the budgetary resources in the next research framework programme should be determined on the basis of project projects. how the 2% came about is beyond my knowledge, but i think there are projects behind it too. in the present programme's accounts it will be of great interest to know what actually happened. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the countries are also particularly keen to cut research funding. that is why all research without results is in fact wasted resources. in the context of the previous debate, the issue of strengthening research on income and income alternatives was raised again. it will be of great interest to see what this will look like in the future, who will be involved, in what field and with what guidelines and premises. i too agree that we must particularly look at the complex research problems of food and food safety. i think that everything else has been written in the report so that there is no need for me to explain anything else.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! we are starting today a debate which has been prepared in the last few weeks with a lot of shadow boxes, and i am glad that the proposals are finally on the table so that we can talk about them. i'm not that insecure about just hanging on to whatever someone puts in the room. i do not have to go along with what the commission proposes, nor do i have to take the individual statements from the council or parts of the council as my benchmark. we in parliament, as one of the parties which will decide on this financial perspective, will deal with the subject in the coming weeks and months, and even in the coming years - as long as it may take in such difficult debates. it is not possible for one side to say: we have an idea, and we want to have infinite money for it. that can't be the approach. but on the other hand, you cannot say: 'you have a little money in europe, look how far you can go with it.' both are wrong. what we need to do is this. we must take up the challenge we have already discussed together and then work it out step by step. i say to you that all of us - including those who have already spoken big words today - will have to move in different places. we will have to talk about what we want to do in the area of research and development. we agreed at the last meeting that 3% of gross national product should be spent on this in europe. we cannot put this 3% in our budget, because that would be 1.24% or 1.0% or whatever. so we need to talk about combinations. we must talk about what is going to be done in the future at national level in the member states, and we must talk about what we can do together at european level in the most favourable way. we will have to do that in all the areas that lie ahead of us. this includes foreign policy, where the european development fund has so far been excluded from the budget; we'll integrate him into the team. we will also have to discuss what proportion of the european budget we want to spend on the prevention of international conflicts and what the member states will do in the future. we have also set ourselves a target of 0.7% of gross national product. we will have to discuss, with regard to the area of justice and home affairs, whether we want to remain at europol and eurojust with the small units that we have now or whether we want to develop further. and what is to be financed by the fight against organised crime at european level, and what is better financed locally. these are questions that will be discussed. so we're going to have to talk about where it's going to be located, what budget it's coming from, what proportion. i am very open and i am open to this debate because i believe that is what you have to be, otherwise you will not be able to discuss the real contents with all the war cries that are being heard in the corridors. i think we have discovered some good things in relation to what you have proposed. we'll get to that. we will of course discuss with you why the period you propose should be seven years. i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the future of the european union for a long time. seven years is a period that can lead to that. we'll have to talk about what growth rates you've based on the financials you've calculated at the end. i think i saw somewhere that you were assuming 4.5% economic growth per year. if we have them in europe in the next seven years, then we will have no problem with any funding. so we're going to have to talk about what numbers you're going to use when you're developing your totals. we will have to discuss the structure you propose, whether it is transparent, whether it is efficient, whether it is permeable. our concern to change agricultural policy also means that we want to invest funds from the traditional agricultural policy in the development of rural areas. is that possible, according to your suggestions? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we need a little flexibility because, as has been said many times, we are facing challenges that we cannot foresee today over a seven-year period. i am firmly convinced that we should enter this debate as a parliament with confidence. we have our own ideas, we will describe europe as we imagine it. we shall discuss the means to be used. i look forward to discussing it with you. i look forward to the discussion with the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. neither the 1% limit nor the commission's proposal to extend it to 1.24%, de facto to 1.15%, can be the signal to european citizens or taxpayers today. of course, the letter from the six so soon after the failure of the summit was a mistake in timing, form and style and therefore in no way acceptable. but i must also say, in the light of the commission's reflections - mr prodi, you have provided some very interesting ideas, but we will have to discuss them in greater depth - that a critique of the european union's role, both positive and negative, across all areas of its activities, is absolutely necessary for the next few months if we are to find honest and concrete answers for the european citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the first step in a more precise critique of the tasks involved is to complete the constitutional treaty and define the rules of competence in the sense of subsidiarity. this also means that, as tasks are being relegated to the background in an enlarged union, we will need less resources at european level for these policy areas. but it also says that when member states delegate tasks to the european level foreign, security and development policy , they must also discuss the fact that not only is there an increase in the eu budget, but that less spending may also be needed at national level. in conclusion, i would like to make two points. it is not just a question of making money available in the budget with new objectives, improving competitiveness and growth potential, but i am missing the fact that, with the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy to be discussed next month, the commission itself, with regard to many legislative proposals, does not have the necessary coherent approach to launch a compulsory consolidation in the field of legislation that really unlocks growth potential and entrepreneurial freedoms throughout the european union. if what you propose in the budget is accompanied by such initiatives, then we are also much more credible. the option of going back to article 272 of the treaty without committing new parliaments and new institutions will also be a very exciting alternative for us. (applause from the centre)
the commission. this is a subject that has been well known for a long time. i would first like to recall that the law adopted by the hungarian parliament on 15 december 2003 governs the relationship between the financial supervisory authority, the parliament and the ministry of finance. the text of this law is available to the commission. the text states that the financial supervisory authority may not take instructions in its area of responsibility established by law. the ministry of finance is entitled to receive regular information on the activities of the authority and, in the event of deficiencies, to request that the authority cease its unfair practices. in the light of these two provisions, i would say that the express provision that no instructions may be taken within the scope of the statutory duties, but that the minister of finance has the right to be informed about the activity, is in line with the normal standard, also in the member states of the european union. the commission has been informed that the law has not entered into force. the hungarian president did not sign it, but asked for it to be reviewed by the hungarian constitutional court. this examination is not yet completed. it is not excluded that further changes may be necessary. the hungarian authorities have not yet adopted the law on the financial supervision of companies. the commission considers this matter to be important. it is in constant contact with the hungarian government on this matter and, in view of the importance of effective and proper supervision, has asked the hungarian government to keep it informed of all developments in this area in a timely manner.
one more question: do you not find it a little unusual that this change of law is interfering with an ongoing process? and if the result is now a supposed european standard, what was the legal situation before? in the commission's view, has the independence of the commission been improved or has it been reduced?
the commission. the periodic progress assessment report submitted by us at the end of 2003 provides a comprehensive assessment of romania's progress in asset recovery. the general conclusion is that the legal framework for the readjustments is now functional. there is one important exception, which is church readjustment. this is an extremely sensitive issue in romania. the sensitivity of the problem, including problems within and between different churches, has led to a blockage of the announced laws. the legislation in romania applies equally to all romanian citizens. the commission is not aware of any special provisions for the german minority. your question, mr president, suggests that you may know more than the commission. if there is anything the commission does not know, i would be grateful if you would point it out. i cannot therefore answer your question as to whether this is a model for other candidate countries. i find it difficult to evaluate a system that we are not familiar with. the general model adopted in romania for the transfer of property is a sovereign decision of romania and a matter for the state concerned alone. the european union, as you know, has no legal powers in this area. however, the commission's periodic report notes that the progress in the practical implementation of the readjustment varies greatly depending on the assets to be returned. there has indeed been progress in the return of agricultural land and forestry. however, the return of buildings is still in its early stages and only 3% of the properties in question had been returned by the end of 2003. i would call that a rather slow implementation of the relevant laws.
i'm not going to tell you. on the one hand, i believe that it is the commission's task - and you are aware of that - to ensure that the relevant legislation is applied, that is to say that the judicial and administrative systems in the candidate countries actually function within a reasonable time. that is why you have rightly raised the question of the 3%. secondly, i think that - as you said in the last question - you are still responsible for minorities in the applicant countries too. the romanian legislation, and also the hungarian legislation, is trying to be fair to all the citizens of the country in some way. you know yourself that there are considerable problems in czech legislation, for example, which can of course be formally justified. initiatives have been announced by mr mareš and others to heal here. do you know if something's going on? are they planning to apply these models or at least make a different gesture of healing? we have heard a lot about this three quarters of a year ago, but nothing since.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commissioner has not dealt specifically with the question of the request by the social democratic party of malta, in connection with the european elections, to remove 1 684 citizens who are resident in the european union and are not currently working in malta from the list. that is the crux of the matter, and you have not addressed it in any way. so it is the european elections. it's about that very question, and yet it happens again and again. and so it is that in this case, 1 684 citizens are removed from the electoral roll. the question was asked in this particular case. could you elaborate on that, please?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i have to say on behalf of my group that i do not quite understand why mr bushill-matthews asked that question. we are all aware of the problem, and the commissioner's answer has shown that something is being done and that the member states are of course also affected where we can and where we can do it. the commission's proposals, which are based on the principle of subsidiarity, are not in any way intended to change the situation. the member states and the candidate countries are aware of the challenges. i would like to refer to the two reports which our committee and parliament adopted in 2001 and 2003, and which were drawn up by our colleagues cercas and jan andersson respectively. i think that the subject was treated there in a much more substantial way. these were reports that dealt with this subject in a much more substantial way. it is not just a question of raising the retirement age, as the honourable member is trying to make clear. of course, one of the points is that we have to reduce the incentives for early retirement. but we also need to tackle the discrimination that older workers still face in our working society, such as the fact that they are barely able to participate in training, that their experience is not used adequately, that they no longer have any opportunities for advancement. all this is part of making the working world of older people more attractive and meaningful. there is certainly a lot of catching up to be done in the member states and also on our part, which goes far beyond simply raising the retirement age. of course, as mrs bastos said, we must also consider how we can support child-friendliness in the european union, how we can support the possibilities for women to combine work and family life. i think there is a contradiction here when the epp, as it did yesterday, demands and expects 55 or 60 hours of working time without any problems, and does not take into account at all that a child-friendly society is not possible. i think that is also an important point. the third and final point: of course we must also talk about an active migration policy without prejudice and openly and seriously. the immigration strategy that kofi annan mentioned here recently should be seriously discussed. i believe that all this is part of a policy of balance between generations and of prosperity as well as of solidarity between generations, as has been said here many times. this is more important than just talking about raising the retirement age.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the report by mr de gucht, which i am sure will be of great help to the commission, is a very good report. i say so-called progress because the main objective is to isolate europe more and more from the rest of the world. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. the un secretary-general did not address us with polite words of thanks, but read the levites to the europeans and their immigration policy in the truest sense of the word. i'll remind you of his messages. he said, and i quote, "immigrants need europe, but europe also needs immigrants". and annan added that welcoming and integrating migrants was not only a moral and legal obligation, but also 'part of the solution to europe's economic problems'. he sharply criticised the eu's isolation policy. restrictive asylum and immigration policies are driving many people into the hands of criminal smuggling gangs or even into death. they suffocate in trucks or die in the trunk of airplanes, and annan said, "this silent human rights crisis is a disgrace to our world". there are those responsible for this silent human rights crisis. it is not an anonymous force which causes the death of hundreds of people every year at the borders of the european union. but what do the council and the commission tell us? the european union has a long-standing commitment to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and we are convinced that this is the right way to achieve this. if all these proposals are adopted, it will be the case that you can only parachute over the european union to have any chance of applying for asylum. at the same time, the eu and its member states are actively involved in 'producing' refugees from the so-called third world countries, either through inadequate poverty reduction or through arms exports to crisis regions. but instead of going the other way, millions of euros are now to be spent on pilot projects to carry out deportations in the european area. as a german mep, i also know that so far every half-progressive proposal on eu asylum and immigration policy has been blocked by my country's government in the council of ministers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the only example of this is the residence requirement for refugees, which is unique in europe. only in germany are refugees punished for leaving their home country. as long as the basic policy is unchanged, the mass deaths of immigrants and refugees at our borders will continue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must have the courage to finally pour the people pure wine and say that europe needs immigration. without immigration, the enlarged union will have only 400 million people in 2050, instead of 450 million. germany's population alone will shrink by a quarter if no changes are made. the numerous civil society human rights organisations are right to say no to the european union's policy of isolation. proposals for an eu asylum and immigration policy with a high level of human rights are on the table. they just need to be included, and then we could actually debate progress here. the european union should also be able to take action to combat the illegal immigration of refugees and displaced persons. we need free access to a european asylum law and procedure. a legal framework is needed to allow legal immigration into the eu. we need a legal space for legalisation campaigns for people without papers, and last but not least we need a right to free movement for all people living in the european union.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! when we talk about the balance sheet for 2003, we have to say, commissioner, that we are grateful to you not just for 2003, but for the whole of the last five years. if we are talking about this today - we are almost at the end of this electoral period - then we can say that we have achieved a great deal with you. you are a commissioner who has not only been invited by us, but who has even invited us as a parliament at times. and that is why we can say that we have all achieved a great deal together under the present conditions, if we take into account the conditions we have, how difficult it is to achieve something with 15 countries with 15 different attitudes. there are, of course, many problems. we still haven't been able to fight the smuggling crime properly. we have not been able to stop the mafia-like gangs in this area, and that is why there are still many victims. we're gonna need a lot more police cooperation. we need better international measures to deal with this problem in the countries of origin. but we also need a common immigration policy at last, so that there are no loopholes for the criminal smuggling gangs to exploit. we had to live through september 11, 2001. we have a really big problem with terrorism. it is in this area that we must think about how we can deal with europol and eurojust in a better and more effective way in the future and what necessary structural measures must be taken urgently. but we must also remember that in all these areas, the achievements in the field of data protection and civil rights must not be overlooked. in this sense, commissioner, i would like to thank you very much for what you have done so far.
council. madam president, in addressing the situation in the middle east, i regret to say that there have been very few developments of a positive nature in the region in recent months. i shall have to be frank and say that prospects for progress in the short term are not overly encouraging. nevertheless, the european union continues to attach great importance to this issue and as presidency we shall play an active role in international peace efforts and in particular as a member of the international quartet comprising the european union, russia, the united states and the united nations, we will be energetic in pursuing this issue. the irish foreign minister, in his capacity as president of the council, visited israel and egypt on 14-18 january 2004. he met the prime minister and foreign minister of israel and paid a courtesy call to the president of israel. in his meetings, minister cowen pointed out that the status quo was not sustainable and that progress must be made on the implementation of the roadmap. he suggested that if initial steps envisaged in phase one of the roadmap are proving too great, then perhaps smaller steps might be taken as a means of building confidence in the region. the israeli side showed some interest in these ideas. similar suggestions had been made to the palestinian foreign minister, dr nabil sha'ath, during the course of a visit to dublin on 9 january. these ideas also attracted support from the president and foreign minister of egypt, and the secretary general of the arab league. the palestinian prime minister, mr qurei, visited dublin last monday and his discussions with the prime minister and the foreign minister included further discussions of these ideas. the meetings were conducted in a very cordial atmosphere and the discussions were wide-ranging and frank. the palestinian prime minister briefed his irish interlocutors on the preparations being made for a meeting with the prime minister of israel. he said that he is willing to meet prime minister sharon at a mutually convenient time. he also announced a number of positive measures which the palestinian government is taking, or will shortly take. these included the continued return of palestinian police to the streets; firm action to end incitement; and an unequivocal statement reaffirming the stated palestinian position on israel's right to exist in peace and in security. prime minister qurei also outlined the work of the palestinian elections commission, which is preparing for elections in the palestinian territory in the coming months. he also urged that the quartet have the israeli government stop the building of the wall, because continuing construction would lead to the undermining of the roadmap and the two-state solution, in addition to the human catastrophe for the palestinian people's way of life that the wall entails. there can be no doubt that the construction by israel of a separation wall which extends deep into palestinian territories is a major obstacle to progress and peace in that region. this has been the subject of statements by the european union and others who have urged israel to consider the long-term consequences of this construction. i need hardly say that the wall figured prominently in the discussions which the president of the council had in israel two weeks ago and that the israeli attitude was regrettably uncompromising. on 21 october 2003, the member states of the european union and the acceding states co-sponsored a resolution in the united nations general assembly. that resolution called on israel to stop and reverse construction of the wall and asked the united nations secretary-general to report on israeli compliance. when at the end of november the secretary-general reported that there was no evidence of israeli compliance, the general assembly adopted a resolution asking the international court of justice to render an advisory opinion on the legal consequences of the construction of a wall in occupied palestinian territory. this resolution was adopted on 8 december 2003. on that occasion the european union abstained in the vote. the decision to abstain was taken after intense consultations and was based on the conviction of many member states that transferring the matter of the wall to a legal forum would do nothing to advance the political process necessary for peace. abstention did not in any way suggest that the european union's position that the wall was in contravention of international law had changed – quite the opposite. on receiving the resolution of the general assembly, the court invited member states of the united nations to submit statements or information to the court which might be of assistance in its deliberations. some member states of the european union felt that it would be desirable for a common position to be submitted to the court. other states had a strong preference for individual national submissions to the court. after considerable discussion – including at the general affairs and external relations council on 26 january – it was agreed that there would be a presidency submission on behalf of the union and that individual member states might make national submissions based on established european union positions. the presidency had forwarded the texts of presidency statements to the united nations general assembly on 20 october and 8 december. these were transmitted to the registrar of the international court of justice in the hague by the irish ambassador on 30 january. the written submissions of all interested parties – including the israelis and the palestinians – have now been received by the court. it is expected that oral submissions will commence on 23 february and that the court will deliver its advisory opinion to the general assembly sometime between late may and late july. amid the gloom prevalent in the region, there have been some small signs of hope. the geneva initiative promoted by yossi beilin and yasser abed rabo is a welcome indication that rational discussion between senior people on both sides is possible. this plan points to some ways in which the difficult final status issues – such as jerusalem and the right of return of refugees – might be addressed. i was pleased to see that the authors were recently in brussels to brief the european union's high representative, dr solana. other initiatives among civil society representatives are also in train involving academics, political figures and former military and intelligence officers. this will serve to show that dialogue is possible, even on very difficult and emotional issues. i am also encouraged by suggestions that the arab league may move to reiterate its initiative adopted at the beirut summit almost two years ago. this idea, advanced by the crown prince of saudi arabia, was that, in return for israel’s withdrawal to the 1967 boundaries, relations with all arab neighbours would be normalised. normalisation would involve de jure recognition of israel by the entire membership of the arab league, the establishment of diplomatic relations, the establishment of trade links and the opening of possibilities for technical and investment exchanges in all sectors. at the time this proposal received insufficient attention in israel, but with the roadmap on the table this initiative could prove to be complementary. it might also serve to reassure israel as to the wisdom of proceeding towards a peace agreement with its neighbours, syria and lebanon. i would urge the leaders of the arab league to use the opportunity of their forthcoming summit meeting to advance the prospect of normalisation to israel once again. they should emphasise their desire for a comprehensive peace, which can only be of benefit to all the countries of the region. i would also urge the israeli leadership to consider carefully the benefits and advantages which they could reap from a normal relationship with their wider neighbourhood and assuming their proper role in their natural economic and political region. finally, i should like to assure this house that the search for a peaceful solution to the arab-israeli conflict, based on the well-established positions of the european union, is a priority of the irish presidency and that we shall make every attempt to take the roadmap forward and to convince the parties to the conflict to make the necessary efforts to achieve a comprehensive and lasting peace for the benefit of all the peoples and states of the region.
i have to say, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when the subject of the security fence or wall on the border area between israel and the palestinian territories is raised, it is clear that emotions quickly run high on this issue among all those involved. the european parliament has made several statements on this subject, on the political expediency of the fence, its legality, the fact-finding associated with it for possible future arrangements by the israelis, the hardships it entails for many palestinians, and the false security it creates for israel. we have already made our views clear on all these points and i do not want to repeat them here. the question now is how we stand on the option of referring this matter to the international court of justice. first of all, i would like to thank the irish presidency again for its comments and for its clarifications on how the eu has behaved, on what occasions and for what reasons. we have this general assembly, this resolution, which was based on a legal basis, this uniting for peace procedure. i think that from a legal point of view this basis is probably not appropriate, because the un security council was able to deal with it and did so, so i think it is right that the eu abstained on this issue - certainly also for legal reasons. the statement made by the then presidency also has a political aspect. i would like to quote this one sentence in english: 'the eu believes that the proposed request for an advisory opinion from the international court of justice will not help the efforts of the two parties to relaunch a political dialogue and is therefore inappropriate.' i think we should not underestimate this aspect in this context. we should make a political effort to return to the israeli-palestinian talks and to the roadmap, which is almost dead, so that the consequences of this security fence are not completely lost sight of, but also the solution to the main problem. if we are going to have a legal debate here, contrary to the case law of the international court of justice, then i do not think that is the right thing to do. the case law of the international court of justice is that no proceedings take place unless a state agrees to have the court of justice seized in a dispute. and israel has explicitly said that we do not want to go to the international court of justice on this matter. i therefore believe that the political initiatives are much more important and that the only way we can get rid of this security fence, or even make it more permeable to people as a first step, is if we really push the parties involved to do their jobs and fulfil their commitments, which they have made in writing. i support the presidency in that it continues the european union's line. i welcome the fact that he will be holding intensive talks and i hope that we can - although unfortunately we as the european union have not yet played a really important and central role - exert our real influence on all parties involved by adopting a balanced attitude, an attitude which makes us an honest broker on both sides. but if we do not do this, if we continue to play a secondary role, i do not think that the people involved will have the confidence in us that we need to play an honest part in this. the money we put into the region is not enough to make us influential. we must speak with one voice politically and try to make a contribution in this way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. after enron and worldcom, parmalat has now reached europe. there are criminals everywhere. there are not only good people, but bad people, and we have laws against bad people. sadly, some bad people have turned against them. so i don't think it's going to do any good to reinvent the wheel and think about whether we should ban it all again. it was already forbidden. what we have to do is to identify in a reasonable analysis where there may have been shortcomings in the monitoring systems and what can still be done to fine-tune the legislation. i am very grateful, after the commissioner's remarks and the commission's well-known proposals, that unlike in america, we in europe do not intend to overreact, but rather to try very specifically with individual measures to improve the existing legal situation in order not to exclude such events in the future, but to make them less likely. i think that the proposals which have been developed in the winter commission in the so-called winter ii report are aimed exactly in the same direction. the commission's action plan on company law has largely taken over these proposals from the winter ii report. i would now like to avoid going into detail, which is simply because the commission's action plan on company law will be the subject of a separate special debate in the context of a report in this house. i would like to make two points. i particularly welcome the fact that the european commission will now present the 8th directive in the foreseeable future, but i think that, apart from the many good ideas contained in it, we should perhaps consider whether we should not make some things a little more consistent. i find it irritating that, at least in europe, large publicly traded companies can still be advised and audited by audit firms at the same time. i am of the opinion that those who examine do not advise, and those who advise do not examine. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and in this sense it is very gratifying that the american legislative decisions now also have far-reaching effects for the international audit firms operating in europe. in other areas i sometimes doubt the usefulness of the commission's proposals, for example when the transparency directive requires the introduction of mandatory quarterly reports for companies throughout europe. i just want to point out that companies like enron, worldcom, and others, they all wrote these quarterly reports. unfortunately, they were all wrong. so i don't think this instrument is really helpful. the key is not to produce information overkill, but to get the information you need to make informed decisions as an investor. i would like to close by thanking you for your attention.
council. these are very timely questions. the european council has repeatedly expressed its preference for the accession of a united cyprus to the union on 1 may 2004. the december 2003 european council urged all parties – in particular turkey and the turkish cypriot leadership – to give their strong support to un secretary-general annan's efforts and, in this context, called for an immediate resumption of the talks on the basis of his proposals. the un reiterated its willingness to accommodate the terms of a settlement in line with the principles on which the eu is founded. in the weeks since the european council there have been a number of developments – in fact there have been developments within the last 24 hours – which have a bearing on the prospects for a comprehensive settlement. in northern cyprus, following the december elections, for example, a coalition administration has been formed under mr mehmet ali talat, leader of the ctp party, which has been in favour of the settlement of the cyprus problem and the accession of a united cyprus to the european union. mr denktash – the leader of the democratic party – is the other party to that coalition. in turkey, following an intensive consultation process, the national security council stated on 23 january 2004 that it had reached a consensus position in favour of negotiations, taking the annan plan as a reference, on the basis of the realities on the island. prime minister erdogan himself discussed the situation with secretary-general annan in davos on 24 january and subsequently stated publicly that turkey supported the resumption of negotiations on the basis of the annan plan with a view to approval of a settlement by referendum before 1 may. prime minister erdogan met with the political leaders of northern cyprus, including rauf denktash, on his return from davos. president papadopoulos has reiterated the readiness of the government of the republic of cyprus to participate in resumed negotiations without preconditions. last week secretary-general annan invited the parties to resume talks on a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus problem on the basis of his proposals. he stated in his letters of invitation that he would take acceptance of the invitation as a commitment to finalising the plan with united nations assistance by 31 march 2004, and to put a finalised plan to a separate, simultaneous referendum on 21 april 2004. the secretary-general appealed to the leaders to summon the political will needed to bring about this result in the short time available. under the timetable set out in his letter, the parties would agree to conclude negotiations by 26 march. if a completed text has not emerged by then, secretary-general annan will make whatever indispensable suggestions are necessary to complete the text by 31 march. that is a very ambitious timetable. the talks involving the greek cypriot and the turkish cypriot leaders opened in new york yesterday, 10 february. this resumption offers a real opportunity to achieve the historic objective of the accession of a united cyprus to the european union on 1 may 2004. we all accept that there are still issues to be resolved. but this union strongly supports the central role of the united nations in the search for a comprehensive settlement. we fully support this latest initiative by secretary-general annan, and the council is ready to assist in any way he considers useful to encourage agreement. the commission will play an integral role in resumed negotiations in order to assist a speedy solution within the framework of the acquis. following a settlement, the union is ready to provide financial assistance for the development of the northern part of cyprus. the council continues to hope that it will be possible to welcome a reunited cyprus to the union on 1 may 2004. i should say to the house that i have a personal reason for hoping that will happen on 1 may, in that the town in which i live will be host to cyprus for the day of welcomes on 1 may 2004. the time remaining, however, is short and if negotiations are to be successfully concluded, difficult compromises – and, of course, political will – will be required on all sides. the accession of a united cyprus is in the clear interests of the people of the island; it is also clearly in the interests of the people of greece and turkey and this union.
i would just like to ask the following question: can the council rule out that in the context of the cyprus negotiations, which i very much welcome and support, turkey is given behind the scenes commitments as regards the start of accession negotiations or accession?
council. the western balkans will of course remain an important european union foreign policy priority during the irish presidency, as it has been during the preceding presidencies. we will seek in particular to build on the progress and good work by the greek and italian presidencies last year. the institutional framework for the irish presidency is provided by the agenda agreed by the eu-western balkans summit in thessaloniki last june, which i attended. that summit confirmed that the future of the countries of the western balkans lies in their integration into the european union structures. real progress has been made in kosovo in recent times, on the basis of un security council resolution 1244. the council fully supports harri holkeri, the un special representative for kosovo, as he works to operationalise the policy of 'standards before status' and to ensure progress on the direct dialogue on practical issues between belgrade and pristina. indeed, there could be no better special representative in this regard than mr holkeri; we in ireland have reason to be grateful for his skills and particularly his negotiating skills. these are essential elements for further progress towards an eventual settlement to the status question. in december the council underlined the importance of structural economic reforms in kosovo. progress in the privatisation process is a key element in implementing economic reforms. the council called on the provisional institutions of self-government to exercise their responsibilities constructively so as to enable the privatisation process to resume as soon as possible. the irish presidency will work to ensure the closest possible cooperation between the european union and the wider international community in support of special representative mr holkeri. in november, the council reaffirmed the union's readiness to assist in the realisation of a multi-ethnic and democratic kosovo, within its place in europe, in the context of the full implementation of un security council resolution 1244 and the 'standards before status' policy. we look forward to an early discussion of the report which the november council requested high representative javier solana to prepare, in close cooperation with the commission and also in cooperation with mr holkeri. this will explore ways and means of further enhancing the european union's contribution to the implementation of resolution 1244, taking full account of the stabilisation and association process tracking mechanism and the importance of the effective implementation of the 'standards before status' benchmarks.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the president-in-office for his very detailed and thorough reply. i would like to make just two critical remarks or questions: first, standards over status -- we hear that all the time. only all the big investors in kosovo tell me that they will not invest there in the long term unless they have a rough idea of how the status is developing. that is to say, the issue of standards over status is only partially working because there is simply no certainty about the future of kosovo. this is a problem for economic development. the second point i wanted to raise in this context is that the americans have announced that they are considering status negotiations in 2005. should the eu not prepare for this by this year, 2004, so that it is not faced with a fait accompli?
- the next item is the report (a5-0041/2004) by mr gargani, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the possibilities for approximating the rules of civil procedure of the member states (com (2002) 746 and com (2002) 654 - c5-0201/2003 - 2003/2087 (ini)).
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0021/2004) by mr mastorakis, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing a european maritime safety agency (com (2003) 440 - c5-0393/2003 - 2003/0159 (cod)).
mr president, madam vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i cannot agree with much of what the rapporteur has said, particularly her concerns about the agency's competence. you know, if we look at the past - the erika case, the prestige case - the member states have shown that they are incapable of solving the problems in time on their own. we need the european maritime safety agency and we need to extend its powers. we in parliament have always supported the agency. i would just remind you that in the autumn, when the council wanted to cut the posts for the agency under construction, we immediately turned back at the first reading of the budget. i also believe, madam vice-president, that what the rapporteur has proposed, namely that the agency should receive sufficient, indeed sufficient, financial resources to be able to quickly charter vessels, equipment and the like at the request of the coastal countries and to be able to provide rapid assistance in the event of marine pollution, is being met and that these sufficient resources should be provided. i'm a little skeptical myself, of course. the agency should not be overburdened with general security tasks. the primary task of the maritime safety agency is to establish the security of vessels and installations, not the general protection against terrorism. we must be very careful not to create expectations that the agency cannot meet. madam vice-president, given the new land - water - that we are entering with the creation of this agency, we have asked the agency to submit a detailed work programme quickly. because we want to discuss the work programme with you, madam vice-president. the commissioner is responsible for the agency's activities. the agency is not a separate body with a life of its own, but the commission is responsible, so to speak, for the efficiency of the agency. i have no doubt in your mind, madam vice president, that you'll do this right. but we must discuss this carefully, because we cannot overload the agency with tasks without giving it the necessary human and material resources. we'd be putting the agency in trouble. we must therefore have a thorough discussion about what it is intended to do, what it can do and what resources we need to do it. i would like to join one of my speakers. madam vice-president, i would be happy if you could tell us tonight how quickly the agency can move. we have always been glad that the agency in brussels has taken up the work, because the work is necessary and urgent. but now that the heads of state and government have spent a long time talking and poking around in the towns of europe and have now decided on lisbon, we do not want two years to pass before the work can begin, with the renting of the premises and the provision of the office. so perhaps you can tell us a little bit about how far ahead you see the timetable, because we want to move to lisbon quickly, we want an effective agency quickly. let me conclude by saying that i have been a judge in the past. and that's why i think we should be careful what we say to the captain of the prestige. i too have the impression that he should be given the opportunity to leave spain to live in the single market in his native greece. but in a democracy, in a state of law, there is a separation of powers. it is not the spanish authorities, but the spanish courts that are preventing him from leaving. we should be very careful as a parliament not to interfere with the independence of the judiciary.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, i would like to thank mr mastorakis and all the honourable members for the excellent work they have done, participating in something which has undoubtedly been one of the key elements of this parliamentary mandate and of this commission over these almost five years. the great strides we have made thanks to our joint work over the years have included a complete revolution in the question of maritime safety at european level, with great ambition, mr casaca, because we have gone from practically zero to infinity, but to a very great deal. we still have more to do, but the steps we have taken are spectacular. i would like to say to the honourable members first of all that in the field of security, also in the sense of the fight against terrorism, there is someone who has to take on the tasks of control, supervision and support, which are often closely linked to security in the other area, and that is why we believe it is better for the agency to cover both aspects. secondly, as regards the provision of management capacity to the agency - and i understand that mrs miguélez ramos would like more definitions - we have indeed chosen to leave several options open. at one time, you can simply build ships; at other times, you can charter them; at other times, you can operate them directly. there are different possibilities: hiring, management, ownership. we're not closing any options. it will depend on the budgetary resources at our disposal and the circumstances. let's hope this agency goes on and on and on and on and on. you gotta give him some space. we must find the most appropriate formula, and this parliament, even if only through the budgets, will undoubtedly have a great deal to say about the formula that is ultimately decided. thirdly, as regards the coast guard, ladies and gentlemen, i know what the will of this parliament is and i would be delighted to have it. but i think we have to start by taking some preliminary steps, until we achieve a real integration of the national guards and a real coordination in all areas. fourthly, they talk about increased powers and there have been several interventions expressing concern that the agency's activity will replace the responsibilities of the states. no, sir, i did not. we are talking about supplementary and complementary activity, not a substitute activity. it is not a question of taking away the powers of the states, of creating possibilities which did not exist before and which, with this agency, at european level, we will be able to have at our disposal, precisely to fight for safer and cleaner seas. fifthly, when will the agency be moved? your honours, as soon as possible. but you should know that we are negotiating with the portuguese authorities on the question of the seat. if it were up to us, before the summer. the problem is that the portuguese authorities are having some difficulties with the installations and we shall see whether they are solved before the end of the year. but it will not depend on us, but on the portuguese authorities. in any case, i would like to say that about 40 people have already been recruited, including temporary staff, auxiliary staff and leading national experts. we have insisted on this point because we believe that this is where the knowledge and experience accumulated are, and it also allows us to cooperate better with the member states of the union, which - i repeat - are not being deprived of any capacity, but are being given greater strength. ten people will be assigned to the issue of managing and responding to pollution problems; seven to training; and about eight to security, with regard to terrorism aspects. i would point out to the honourable members - and this is my reply to mrs miguélez ramos - that it is obvious that the north-western face of the iberian peninsula is one of the most dangerous areas for ship pollution. the only place where accidents have occurred in recent years is on the galician coast. other risk points are the channel area, brittany, etc. the idea is that the anti-pollution ships should be concentrated and permanently established, more or less as a base of operations, in the areas where there are the greatest risks and, of course, they will also be needed in the mediterranean. finally, i would say that there should also be antennas for the agency in the mediterranean. these are issues we're dealing with. mr president, we are going to approve today - i hope - and we are also going to discuss in a moment the question of liability and the fipol fund. once again - and this is the last part-session - we are making progress and completing very important measures to provide the european union with a legal system and a system of means that will really make it possible to combat marine pollution and improve safety. we know that in all probability in the future we will have to deal with issues such as the vessels of convenience and some aspects of the rules of the sea - and i am referring to what mr casaca said. we will have left a path prepared and i hope that whoever succeeds me - because this is a relay race - can complete the work that we have all been promoting over the years. as regards the responsibilities of the captains - and i think there have been objections from various quarters - nobody likes people not having all the freedom they should have, but there is an obvious issue, and that is respect for the judicial decisions of any country in the union.
thank you very much, mrs. de palacio. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0016/2004) by mr stockmann, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on intermodal freight wagons (com (2003) 155 final - c5-0167/2003 - 2003/0056 (cod)).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commissioner is right that intermodal transport is only partially competitive and that the current units - whether containers or interchangeable tanks - cannot be used to the full by all four modes of transport. the complicated and lengthy envelope not only takes a lot of time but also a lot of money. intermodal transport has a natural handicap in this respect. firstly, it is much more complex and therefore more difficult to organise, and secondly, there are also few actors who have a view of the entire intermodal chain. that is why we must promote intermodal transport and that is what we are doing with this directive. the directive provides for three things: firstly, the creation of a new loading unit, the european intermodal loading unit; secondly, the creation of certain intermodality requirements for all new loading units - and we hope that this will reduce the average turnaround time at terminals by half in the medium term at least - and thirdly, the improvement of safety in accordance with the international convention on safe containers. it may have been a little misleading for the commission to present the directive in the context of the programme to promote short-distance transport. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. so this is a first. the essence of standardization is not simply the search for the ideal technical solution, but through standardization we obtain planning and investment security, we lower barriers to market entry and production costs, and standardization opens up new markets. i am convinced that europe needs an optimal intermodal loading unit which combines the advantages of the container and the advantages of the interchangeable container, a european supercontainer, so to speak, which can be used by all modes of transport and which can be easily moved, which is stackable and can be handled from above, which is suitable for sea transport, which offers the greatest possible space for the transport of iso pallets and which allows for rapid loading and unloading. the commission estimates that the use of the new supercontainer will reduce the number of road vehicles required by 25%. i think that's a little bit of a stretch, but at least it sounds like a change. existing fears that existing loading units are no longer authorised are unfounded. the use of the new supercontainer is not mandatory under the directive. this has to be regulated by the market. so there will continue to be different units on the market, but i believe that the european loading unit will prevail on the market because of the advantages mentioned. i think it's going to be an export hit, too. china and russia are two huge markets to be conquered, and the expected growth in freight traffic also towards eastern europe speaks for itself. the directive does not affect the iso standard either. we have been able to allay any doubts in this direction by amending the commission's text. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the standards are met. we have specified that the internal and deck stowage must be possible without modifying the existing scaffolding. at the same time, with an external height of 2.9 m, we also met the requirements of the european standards organization cen and created an optimal loading unit for both road and rail. but standardization in detail is something that the standardization bodies and, with them, industry must do. we've just defined the corner points here. we wanted or want a mandatory standardisation procedure to speed up the standardisation process, because there have been efforts in this direction for a long time, but they are not coming to fruition. this directive is only a start. in addition to the loading units, there are many other possible cases of standardization in intermodal transport, for example the standardization of the interfaces between the infrastructures and the services, i.e. terminals, handling facilities, etc., and of course information systems, liability and contractual regulations. so standardization will continue. i am glad that we are making this start here and that we are setting a clear sign for intermodal transport.
mr president, madam vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. let me remind you that the proposal you prepared - after careful preparation by your staff - caused a little confusion at the beginning. the port authorities, the shipping companies, have fired big guns at your proposal. i think we should also be grateful to the rapporteur, mr stockmann, and to the whole transport committee. mr grosch has also been very active in the dialogue with the business community, so that we have now largely cleared up these concerns of the business community. i think it was just a misunderstanding. i am very pleased that today we can say that, with the amendments proposed by the rapporteur and which we are supporting together in the committee on transport, we can be sure that we will not propose a supercontainer, i would not say a standard container of a european type, which could hinder our global transport business. we depend on exporting and importing that these loading units can be transported on ships without changing the scaffolding and other things really well, quickly and efficiently. i think that we really must leave the details to the standardization committees, as we have defined them in the committee with the amendments. i will be careful as a lawyer to clarify the last nuances of technical details as a member of parliament. but the principles we have agreed in the amendments will, i believe, ensure that the new european loading unit does not conflict with international standards. and it is important because it allows us to reconcile the interests of industry in greater pallet availability with the interests of shipping companies and port companies in not having to change the whole loading dock and the whole construction of the container ships. in that sense, we can be happy that we succeeded. i hope that the economy will also accept what we are promising, namely a greater use of intermodal units. we're dependent on the economy here. we are only making suggestions and then we have to see if the new standard container is accepted by the economy. it is the business of the economy to consider its own interests. finally, i would like to point out that this proposal does not only include the definition of this new loading unit, but also the obligation to strengthen controls and inspections of all loading units, whatever their type. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. we must make sure that there are no serious accidents in the harbour, on ships. the commission's approach is therefore correct in proposing more frequent and more thorough inspections of all loading units.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr stockmann for the work he has done and i think that the support that parliament has given, in general - albeit with some nuances - to this initiative shows the importance of it. first of all, i would like to say that i fully agree with what several members have said, that this is not enough. this is part of the strategy we have been developing over the years, which is aimed at achieving more competitive, dynamic and operational transport, particularly in the railway sector; at adapting the infrastructure to break down the fractions and barriers that exist not only in the railway sector but also - as we are doing now - between the different modes of transport. it is through such measures that we can promote intermodality. as the rapporteur has rightly said, after this attempt to converge on common measures of standardisation, other measures will have to be adopted, such as those relating to dock terminals. the commission is already working on this matter to see how standardized dock systems could be developed, which would make it easier to load and unload and to moor ships, and which would reduce time and costs. all this is also linked to our proposal - which unfortunately has not been adopted - for the liberalization of port services, where we must also give a boost and bring in greater dynamism. it's all a set. one measure alone doesn't get us very far. you have to go through all of them to get the best. i would point out to the honourable members that we accept most of the amendments. some of them - nos 2, 5, 14, 16 and 17 - should be reformulated, because their current wording may not be the most appropriate. in any event, they all want to make it clear that the standardisation of the intermodal freight unit will not necessarily lead to conflicts with existing global standards - which is exactly what we want. we believe that european standardisation bodies should not and do not have to be slaves to such standards dictated by the international organisation for standardisation, but that these bodies should decide what are the best possible standards for european intermodal transport, but - that is - taking due account of existing iso standards and the needs of trade. in addition, this proposal ultimately depends on whether the market accepts it or not. what we are proposing are common standards which could facilitate - if the market sees fit - the operation of the intermodal network with these new boxes, which, as i said before, would avoid disruptions and allow a rapid transition from the river to the sea, rail or road. i would point out that we must reject amendment no 6, which states that harmonised standards will be developed by the european committee for standardisation (cen) and leaves out some important standardisation bodies in this sector, such as cenelec and etsi. i hope, mr president, that after parliament's approval, with the exclusion - i hope - of this amendment no 6, we can make rapid progress in the council and thus launch a proposal for the sector which will facilitate the move towards intermodality, which is absolutely necessary.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the recommendation (a5-0042/2004) of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market on the proposal for a council decision authorising member states to sign, ratify or accede to the protocol of 2003 to the international convention on the establishment of an international fund for compensation for oil pollution damage, 1992, in the interest of the european community, and authorising luxembourg and austria to accede to the underlying instruments in the interest of the european community (14389/2003 - com (2003) 534 - c5-0002/2004 - 2003/0209 (avc)) (rapporteur: gil-robles gil-delgado).
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to point out that the commission has urged the member states to ratify the protocol as soon as possible, but unfortunately they have not yet done so. i fully agree with mr medina that the commission should be the head of the international maritime organisation, at least in the areas where we have exercised community competence. the problem is that, as the honourable member is well aware, we have not been able to join that body, because, among other things, the council has had the mandate on its table for some time now. it is a proposal i made almost two years ago and unfortunately the various presidencies that have been in office during that time have been very busy with other matters. that is true, but i think they should have paid attention to this point as well, which they have not. in short, the council's enthusiasm for moving forward with the community presence in the international maritime organization is not widespread. the same is true of another body, the international civil organisation, but i fully agree that this is the right approach, especially when - as in this case - the powers in this area have been exercised for the last four years, which had not been done before. the powers now assumed by the community are considerably more important and must therefore be able to be defended at international level as well. i would tell mrs miguélez that, as she is well aware, i made a proposal in the sense of criminal liability, among other things, because there is often a problem of wilful negligence, and not only in cases like the prestige or the erika where, whether there is one or not, it is up to the judges to say so, but in cases where the bilges are being cleaned without any scruples, the tanks are being cleaned without any scruples on the high seas, which normally represents 90% of the discharges that occur on our coasts; it is true that more discharges are produced, more spread over time and space and therefore less concentrated, but the impact is absolutely disastrous and devastating and, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, i have made this problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think, as you know, that we must act on all fronts: we must act with the maritime safety agency, with the control of port authorities, with the facilities that we have approved here, facilities in ports that enable ships to unload and to clean up bilge and other types of waste water, and all this - do not think we have forgotten - using the latest technologies, from satellite photography to all kinds of systems and means of controlling the systems installed on the ships themselves and in the departure areas to control when they leave and whether or not cleaning has taken place. i think we have to act on all fronts because marine pollution is something we cannot tolerate. the sea does not belong to all europeans alone, but to all mankind, and we have a responsibility to preserve it for future generations. i thank you very much, mr president, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and i thank especially mr gil robles for the speed with which he has prepared this report.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (the sitting was closed at 11.05 p.m.)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. anyone who has visited afghanistan or has studied the country a little more closely knows how appalling and how extensive the material, cultural, social and above all human destruction is. civil wars, power struggles between local commanders, the soviet occupation war, the taliban dictatorship, but also the bombings of the northern alliance have left millions dead, maimed, an economy destroyed in an already extremely poor country and a society destroyed in many ways. afghanistan has been a playground for foreign powers' strategic interests for centuries. the present situation is, in my view, primarily the result of the wars that the soviet invasion has unleashed and of a short-sighted policy of the united states, which has made the taliban the decisive military and political power in afghanistan. the victims have always been the women, the children, the men in afghanistan, millions of them. the report is not about our differences of opinion on the past, which we certainly have, but about our common position that the international community must assume its responsibility to give the afghan people full political, financial and economic support to help them build a peaceful, democratic and social future. this aid, and in particular the financial support of the european commission, must not be reduced, but must be stepped up in accordance with the conditions. it would be irresponsible to reduce international commitment to afghanistan and solidarity with its people in the shadow of the war in iraq and the dramatic problems there. i believe that, particularly in view of the situation in iraq and the unilateralism practised there, afghanistan must become a successful project of the international community on the basis of the un charter and a central role for the un. since the fall of the taliban, significant positive changes have been achieved. this is above all due to the political forces in afghanistan themselves. the newly adopted constitution represents a particularly important step forward. it guarantees basic democratic rights and human rights, takes account of all ethnic groups and emphasises equal treatment for men and women. the latter is of the utmost importance not only in view of the brutal oppression of women and girls by the overthrown regime, but also in view of the still completely unsatisfactory reality today, in which women and girls are still massively disadvantaged, are still excluded from participating in social life in many cases and terrible violence against women is a thousand times part of everyday life. the international community must demand universal human rights and women's rights as human rights, and we do so in our report. it must not do so with an imperial attitude, but it must be consistent. despite these and other advances, the situation in afghanistan is extremely unstable. the main problems are the lack of or low level of security in many regions, the continuing and conflictual military power of field commanders, governors and drug traffickers, the stalled process of disarmament and a socially oriented demobilization of soldiers from private armies, the reorganization of the taliban in some parts of the south and south-east, and the dramatic increase in poppy cultivation and drug trafficking. the forthcoming presidential elections in afghanistan must be a success despite these problems. i would like to ask all my colleagues, and especially my colleagues in the european people's party, not to follow the motions to delete the description of such problems. we are not doing the afghan people any favors, in my view. we are not doing ourselves any favors in our quest to keep afghanistan as a priority of international policy. i would also like to remind you that we recently awarded the un secretary-general the sakharov prize in memory of the un staff killed in iraq. the warning of the then special representative for afghanistan and now special representative for iraq brahimi on 15 january - only recently - about the deteriorating security situation must be taken seriously. i would like to thank all the members of the committee, all the political groups. i think we had a common will to make afghanistan a priority. i would like to express my sincere thanks to the european commission, its staff in kabul and to the special representative, mr vendrell. (applause from the centre)
commission. madam president, i would like to apologise to the honourable member at the outset for missing the first minute of his speech. but i would like to say how much i agreed with the rest of it, particularly what he said about the continuing priority that we must give to afghanistan. i also agree very strongly with what he said about the commitment, the dedication and the courage of some of those who are implementing our programmes in afghanistan. i very much welcome this opportunity to discuss afghanistan in the week before i go there again and in the run-up to the most challenging goal set in the bonn agreement of 2001 – the free and fair election of a democratic government in afghanistan. there was enormous optimism at bonn about building a strong and democratic afghanistan, and delivering a peace dividend to the whole population. since then there have been huge strides forward, but there are still formidable challenges ahead of us. last year i suggested that afghanistan was at a critical crossroads and that the international community should redouble its efforts to help president karzai extend his authority across the country. it is increasingly clear that this also means stamping out opium poppy production. the 2003 un opium poppy survey makes extremely disturbing reading: not only has production risen by 6% from the bumper levels seen in 2002, but cultivation has spread into new areas – it now affects almost 90% of provinces. this pernicious trade – valued at about eur 2.5 billion – undermines the efforts to build a functioning plural democratic state and also fuels ongoing instability and conflict. but before discussing how the international community is working with the afghan government to tackle this, i would like to highlight what afghanistan has achieved in the last twelve months. firstly, a new constitution – which recognises women as equal to men – has been agreed by the constitutional loya jirga. next, the process of disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration has started, and there have been some encouraging early results on the reduction of heavy arms in kabul and the panshir valley. there has also been a start to the election registration process, though we need to speed up the pace. on the economic front, gdp growth raced ahead by 30% in 2002, with a figure of 20% expected in 2003. the new currency introduced in late 2002 has remained stable and the afghan government has succeeded in increasing the flow of tax revenues to kabul. the international community has also continued 'to do more' than we promised at tokyo. total european union commitments in 2003 exceeded eur 835 million, of which just over eur 300 million came from the commission. as in 2002, over 70% of the commission’s support has been contracted in year, which is an impressive track record by any standards. the commission’s development programme has ensured that health services are delivered in six provinces, covering 20% of the population; travel times on the kabul-jalalabad road have already been cut by up to half, and work to fully reconstruct the road is now beginning. key public sector workers – including doctors, teachers and the police – are back at work. the rural economy continues to grow, reflecting the provision of improved seed, animal vaccination and the widespread rehabilitation of irrigation structures. de-mining continues to enable people to return to their own homes. in addition, funding from echo of eur 127 million has helped to support the return of 2.5 million refugees to afghanistan since 2002. however, afghanistan’s future depends critically on security. the escalating violence in 2003 has, as the honourable member said, claimed the lives of aid workers, isaf troops and many afghan citizens. it has left large parts of the south and south-east off limits for international staff. by the end of 2003, eur 13 million of commission projects in high-risk areas had been temporarily suspended. we must recognise that insecurity and burgeoning opium poppy production are two sides of the same coin. without better security, reconstruction will certainly stall, and we will find ourselves struggling to hold open and credible elections. so i strongly welcome member states' engagement in the provincial reconstruction teams, as well as their continued support to isaf. i strongly hope that nato will be able to provide more troops. i also welcome the role that france, germany, italy and the united kingdom are playing in helping the afghan government to build an efficient army, police force, and judicial system, as well as to implement an effective anti-narcotics policy. without stronger institutions and better law enforcement, we will get nowhere in the fight against drugs. this is exactly why the commission committed an extra eur 50 million to support the police in late 2003, and why we will continue to play our part in delivering security, including tackling opium production. as i am sure the house is aware, in may 2003 the afghan government adopted a robust anti-narcotics policy embracing alternative livelihoods, institution building, effective law enforcement and demand reduction. the commission has worked closely with the afghan government, the uk – the lead donor on anti-narcotics – and the un to help develop and implement this strategy. in particular, in 2003 the commission committed eur 9 million to promote alternative livelihoods in the eastern region; eur 3 million to reinforce border control along the afghan-iran border; and eur 65.5 million to support the police in delivering effective law enforcement across afghanistan. in addition, the wider eur 100 million committed for rural development for 2003-2004 will help to provide long-term legitimate employment for those currently involved in poppy production. this underlines the huge importance we attach to curbing the drug economy. i have asked commission services to report back on how this will be taken forward following the drugs conference a few days ago on 8 and 9 february. i hope to have substantive discussions on this when i return to kabul with the ministerial troika next week. building a secure afghanistan will not be achieved overnight. we all know that the road ahead is far from easy. but we cannot afford to let reconstruction fail in afghanistan and it is critical that the international community underlines its strong and continued support for president karzai at the upcoming international conference. i would like to finish by thanking this house for its unwavering commitment to afghanistan, especially as regards the budget. i look forward to building on this over the coming year and to informing the house, in due course, of the conclusions i arrive at after my next visit to afghanistan.
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and equal opportunities. the commission is not prepared to accept this. afghanistan, as we all know, is a country with more problems than mountains and valleys. it includes more than 30 different ethnic groups, from pashtuns to hasaras to tajiks, and they live together in a historically developed but very unstable balance. we all know that the problems of afghanistan can only be solved if the solutions proposed and the aid programmes implemented are in keeping with afghan culture and history. the rapporteur has already said that the situation of women in afghanistan is particularly tragic. the maternal mortality rate, as well as infant and child mortality rates, are among the highest in the world. according to official estimates, the illiteracy rate among afghan women is 90%. i think the only way to improve the situation of women is to involve men. the way to help women must be through the conviction of the husband, the father, the brother, but also the clan elder. if we want to help afghan women, we must respect their culture, and we must make men understand, especially in a country where women have been oppressed for years, that if their women and children are well, they are well, and the situation of the whole society is improved. women and men - it has been said - must be accorded equal rights. it's also important that we build schools for girls, but also schools for boys, so that something changes in their minds. the afghan constitution was mentioned, which guarantees equal rights for women and men and prohibits all forms of discrimination. the european union should continue to respect all this in its commitment and continue to ensure that its aid measures benefit the whole population. i thank the rapporteur for the good cooperation on this issue and support him and the european commission in continuing to make afghanistan a priority on the political agenda in order to help the people there. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, the afghan issue is therefore of crucial importance because it is here that the proof must be provided that in the fight against terrorism, which was also linked to states, peace can be won. things are not looking good in afghanistan right now. we hear that taliban groups are making a powerful advance in the south, we hear that russian defense minister ivanov said in munich last week that drug production has increased ninefold since the beginning of the war. we find that soldiers coming from europe and supposed to defend the future security of europe are not able to take action against this drug culture. it seems that they are guarding the drug routes that bring the drugs to europe to our children. i believe that this is a very difficult situation and that it is therefore urgently necessary that we make every effort to ensure that the rule of law and democracy can emerge, while ensuring a strong central authority, which also takes into account ethnic differences and diversity. we will not have peace in afghanistan if aid and power distribution are one-sided, as they have been, at the expense of the pashtuns. i think we need to give more weight to this too. it is necessary that the elections are properly prepared, so that the voter lists are clear, so that legitimacy for the elections is created, and it is necessary that the new constitution is used to achieve this equitable distribution. the new constitution brings opportunities but also difficulties, because it makes the sharia law possible. as long as the present court is so conservative as it is, it cannot produce a result that is acceptable to us in our conception of the rule of law.
commission. mr president, i am extremely pleased to have this opportunity to express to parliament why this communication is so important. we have designed a coherent strategy maximising the use of all our instruments to promote respect for democracy, the rule of law and human rights in a region that poses formidable challenges in this respect. the communication proposes to use our essential elements clause much better through our political dialogue with partner countries. it explains how further to involve civil society. crucially, it invites our mediterranean partners to develop nationally owned human rights strategies. this is an innovation. it is not the only one. countries which progress well will be rewarded with additional meda funds. this is in addition to the meda projects already under way to help reform the judiciary and promote good governance – currently funded to the tune of eur 100 million. it is easy simply to dismiss the chance of success of these projects. yet, as we all know, the primary responsibility for the promotion and protection of human rights and the rule of law rests with governments. any strategy that ignores this fact is doomed to failure. that is also why the sana’a conference – which i know the honourable member attended – was such a breakthrough, and one on which we must build. i am pleased that the director-general of my own department, mr landaburu, was also able to attend that extremely important and significant conference. no real progress will be achieved without a freely functioning, vibrant civil society. this is where the european initiative for democracy and human rights comes into play. eur 25 million have been allocated to this region for the period 2002-2004. in addition, a substantial proportion of the extra eur 17.5 million, which this house voted to the european initiative at the end of last year, will be used to reinforce support to grass roots organisations working to defend human rights and democratisation in this part of the world. the communication has already produced encouraging results, in morocco and jordan in particular. it was warmly welcomed by the council. key partners in civil society have also recognised its value. the full support of the european parliament will be crucial to the success of this, which is, i repeat, a ground-breaking approach, in one of the most difficult regions of the world with respect to human rights and democracy. parliament's resolution also takes up aspects of the management of the european initiative for democracy and human rights and parliament’s role in the shaping of the initiative. in this context, i would like to recall that we have come a very long way since 1994. that was the budget year in which, for the first time, nine separate budget lines were linked up under one heading. five years later in 1999, implementation of these budget lines was put on a firm legal basis with two regulations, one for developing countries and one for ‘other countries’ – wider europe, meda, the balkans and others. these basic facts define the objectives of the european initiative, shape its instruments, and set up the administrative procedures. the european parliament was fully involved in the making of these regulations. i trust that parliament will support the extension of the initiative beyond 2004, in line with its current legislative framework. the commission has always kept parliament fully informed of our thinking. our communication of may 2001 on the european union’s role in promoting human rights and democratisation in third countries, which proposed a more strategic approach for the initiative, was welcomed and fully supported by the european parliament. in the same vein, since 2002, the commission has kept parliament informed about the multi-annual programming of the initiative, and its annual updates, and sought appropriate discussion with parliament on our priorities. members are fully aware of the procedural constraints under which the commission operates, which are contained in the human rights regulations, the financial regulation, comitology and so on. it is not in the commission’s power to change these rules. but i am fully committed, and my services are ready, to continue the fruitful dialogue we have had so far on all issues concerning human rights and democratisation, including the strategy and objectives of our assistance to third countries. on this basis, i would call on parliament to give full support to a speedy extension of the regulations before this parliament is dissolved in order to have a stable framework in place for the next parliament and commission to build upon. i would just make two additional comments. the work we are doing in the field of democratisation and human rights in the wider middle east is crucial not only to the sustainable economic and political development of countries in that region, but also to the relationship between europe and the islamic world, particularly those parts of the islamic world which are closer to our own geographical borders. this is an area in which we have been working in general terms for some time. i recently read the statements by a very distinguished american public official about what was required in order to develop a more stable, secure and plural region in the middle east. i read those comments with interest and wished i had been able to say immediately to him that they are very good ideas – we call them the barcelona process and we have been working on them since the mid-1990s. we have to recognise that this is not simply a bright idea for a monday morning to be forgotten by the end of the week. this is a long-term process and we have to commit ourselves to it, i hope with more vigour and occasional tough-mindedness. we have to recognise that there must be linkages between financial support and behaviour on the ground. we also have to recognise that we are working with the grain of societies and with the grain of people's aspirations. my second point is quite simply that a number of honourable members in this chamber speak with very considerable authority on this subject. i am thinking of the chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, of the honourable member who was once speaking from this bench and also of my honourable friend who will, i hope, catch your eye later in the debate, mr president. they have played a key role in developing the european union's policies on democracy and human rights. it stands to reason that we should listen very carefully to their views on the institutional arrangements that we need to put in place and on how we can sharpen up our performance and ensure that what we do is better focused and more effective throughout the region. i just want to underline that, as far as i am concerned, speaking for the commission, we are open-minded about the ideas that members of parliament will put to us and simply want to ensure that what we do is as effective as possible. two admirable reports by the undp have underlined the significance of this work and i, for one, want to ensure that we in europe rise to the challenge of those reports and do not simply regard them as containing a few good ideas that can be brought out and dusted down from time to time.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. my group welcomes the commission's statement. i believe that this is an important step and that it can also be a starting point for integrating different policies. as the commissioner has already said, this concerns the integration of the barcelona process with the 'greater europe' strategy and the issues relating to the financing of meda programmes and others. i believe that human rights and democracy are also part of this context. the european parliament has always been a party to the peace process, and it is the only party that has been able to achieve this. this is of the utmost importance to us, not only for the sake of human rights, which should be guaranteed elsewhere, but such a stable region on this basis of democracy and the rule of law is also the best security policy we can pursue in our own interest. we should ensure that there is stability in these regions, so that people have a perspective and do not fall prey to fundamentalism which is otherwise well founded. and this is also the basis of some of the political problems of countries in the middle east that make it difficult to lead them towards a better future. i believe, commissioner, that it is important to involve non-governmental organisations in this matter. but let me make one more comment on what you have just said at the end: it seems important that in such democracy programmes - as was the case in the past in central and eastern europe - the experience of the european parliament and its members should be more closely involved. this should not only be done by having them heard, but also by involving them in the decision-making process. this is not a defence of the breakdown of the separation of powers. but the fact is that because of our own experience, which we have gained in our daily business of building democracy, parties and grassroots democracy, we have more knowledge than you can have in an administration. there are people who are trained from a very different point of view. and i think this is not just about putting theoretical concepts that cost a lot of money but don't have any results into the world. it is more about building practical structures on the ground. perhaps we should return to this practice of the past. this would be an interesting experimental field for us to go through in this way. let me make one final comment: i believe that in the past both the commission and the european parliament have not paid sufficient attention to the actual implementation of our decisions on human rights and democracy. our weaknesses in this area were control and implementation. we put great decisions into the world, and then it was over. and i think that the possibility of checking whether it is being implemented is becoming increasingly important. this is also linked to the integration process i mentioned at the beginning. i believe that some agreements should be linked to the realisation of human rights, that some financial contributions should be linked to the development of democracy, in order to achieve checks and balances that make it possible for democracy and human rights, as the crucial foundations of stability, to be applied in practice and not just the lyrical side of things.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'd like to point out that a photographer up here has just taken pictures to obviously discredit a colleague. i ask that this photographer be immediately removed from his camera and the images confiscated.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when i hear the discussion here, i wonder what we're talking about. parliament has been calling for more legal clarity for two years, and commissioner monti wants to bring legal clarity to important issues. it is an illusion to think that we can now suddenly make the constitutional changes ourselves and correct competition law on the basis of the internal market article. we have been discussing this for months, mr. herzog, and you have not obtained a majority for your proposals. they did not get a majority to reverse the sectoral liberalisation. they did not get a majority to ask for a framework directive again. you did not get a majority for your demand for a european single system of social security. now, you follow. i can only say that either you do not know what mr monti is planning or you are trying to reconsider your defeat four weeks ago. i can't think of anything else. mr swoboda - he said it himself - is a true expert in foreign policy. but in matters of competition law, mr swoboda, you better hold back, because you have not yet grasped the majorities that have emerged. if we are calling for legal clarity here, as we have done, and mr monti is putting forward a proposal, and he is doing so from the point of view of subsidiarity, mrs flautre, then i do not understand what you are really trying to do. if mr monti proposes that subsidies of less than eur 15 million per year to companies with an annual turnover of no more than eur 40 million should in future be the sole responsibility of the member states. if they are not ratified, then there is more freedom for the member states. we want that legal clarity. i don't understand the discussion at all. aid for housing and for hospitals will no longer have to be ratified. i do not understand the debate here, because that was part of our demands. i can therefore only say that if mr monti's proposal - as i hear it - enters into force, it will be on the basis of the existing eu treaty. the commission has the power to do so without the co-decision procedure. it is acting in such a way as to strengthen subsidiarity and to bring about legal clarity on important matters before the end of the european parliament's term. we do not want to approve the subsidies to edf or volkswagen. but subsidies to small and mediumsized enterprises - including regional subsidies - will in future be the responsibility of the member states, and mr monti wants to open up this possibility. before we have another three years of debate on the white paper and the framework legislation, he is creating facts. i can only warmly welcome the fact that before the end of the parliamentary term these matters will finally be brought to a greater degree of legal clarity. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to express clearly, as parliament's rapporteur for iran, our concern, which is shared by all the political groups, about the political developments in the country in the run-up to the elections. the two largest groups and another have recently made separate visits to iran. i can see that the assessment of the situation and the political conclusions drawn from it are essentially the same. we regret to note that the democratization process has suffered a serious setback. because this election is a democratic step backwards compared to the last election. the president and the majority of the parliament in tehran agree that this election cannot be described as free and fair. we share that view. the citizens who are so frustrated that they don't even support the reformers will probably vote in a different way by staying at home. in fact, this is of no use to anyone, not even the usual suspects in iran, who are already in europe, and even if they are happy to do so, should be involved with them and forget about the reformers. i ask the commission: in view of this setback, shall we proceed to the agenda? i can say this for the epp group: we must now strengthen political contacts with the iranian institutions, but also with all political forces and civil society. we must not only talk to those who are reformers, but we must seek the difficult dialogue with those who exercise power in the judiciary and the guardian council, and make it clear to them that they are misusing the potential of their country if they continue to make the path to a trade and cooperation agreement with the eu more difficult and, above all, that they are ruling over the hopes and expectations of the people. but anyone who tries to rule against the people will fail. the last few decades in this world have shown that. and that is why i appeal to those in power in iran: change your ways, make a u-turn while there is still time! perhaps you can put the internal dialogue back on track, which will lead to the development of more democracy in this country as well.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the last few weeks, three politicians from the sam rainsy party have been murdered. chea vichea, a founding member of the party and president of the free trade unions, was shot dead on 22 january. he's the latest victim in a long line of assassinations. if political murders go unpunished, it's an invitation to more assassinations. the epp group condemns in the strongest terms the assassination attempts, but also the slow progress in the search for answers. cambodia needs a strong political leadership. it must implement reforms that will finally put an end to the continuing violations of human rights. i also remember child prostitution and forced labor. the government has for some time been negotiating an agreement with the un on the establishment of a war crimes tribunal. the only thing that is lacking for implementation is the ratification by parliament, and this must be done quickly. we therefore call for an eu delegation to be sent to cambodia. we must and we want to help to ensure that a process of normalisation takes place that is sustainable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. cambodia is not on the right track, unfortunately. the cambodian people have shown more political and democratic maturity in the elections than the political forces in that country. it is not only sam-rainsy politicians who are being shot in the street, but my research has also shown that three representatives of the governing funcinpec party are also involved. so, there are some pretty harsh morals here, which obviously don't play by the usual rules of government opposition, but mean that someone who has become unpopular, for whatever reason, is massively threatened. in fact, impunity continues to call for the removal of unwelcome politicians, wherever they may come from, because the perpetrators face no consequences. the public's trust in politics is deeply disturbed. even when a perpetrator is presented, usually no one believes that it is the real killer. so not only does this have a huge impact on the mood in the country, but international aid is also significantly affected. the asian development bank does not want to resume its payments unless a new parliament, which has already been elected, is soon in session and a new government is formed. but that is also the crux, and here we must influence the situation to change, because at the time of the peace process the un decided that a two-thirds majority was required to form a government and a coalition. the result is that today there is no willingness to do so. in reality, it has become a barrier to normal political life in cambodia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the discussions of the proposed delegation should be conducted in this spirit.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after the khmer rouge murdered millions of its own people, cambodia struggles for stability and balance. there's balancing between king and parties, there's balancing between the parties, times more, times less, and also trying to balance the different outside influences. but lasting stability cannot be achieved by balance, but only by strengthening the rule of law. that is why paragraphs 4 and 6 of the resolution are of paramount importance. clear prosecution of the assassins and murderers who are an existential threat to democratic life, and above all, finally, the establishment of the special criminal court together with the united nations, to ensure, through the cooperation of cambodian and international jurists, that the crimes against humanity committed there are finally punished appropriately and that this country, after a bloody and turbulent past, can finally find a rule of law stability that enables it to be an important partner of our european union. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. for eight months now greek and filipino seamen have been detained by the pakistani authorities. their tanker ran aground off the port of karachi, triggering the worst environmental disaster in pakistan's history. 30,000 tonnes of crude oil spilled into the sea, polluting the coast and destroying the livelihoods of fishermen. from the point of view of the pakistani government, the crew's incompetence and negligence are the cause of the disaster. however, it is indisputable - as mr hatzidakis and my predecessors have pointed out - that the tanker was under the command of a local pilot at the time of the accident. so the question of guilt is open. the pakistani ambassador has informed me that a court case against the sailors is about to be opened. - in the near future? according to media reports, they have been under house arrest since october 2003 and are not allowed to leave pakistan. i have been assured by the government that they can move freely throughout the country. we need to verify that. international law regulates open issues of compensation. for example, in the field of oil pollution, there is an agreement on liability, which has now been signed by 124 countries. i hope pakistan will soon be one of them. the epp-ed group is calling for the seamen to be allowed to return to their homes and families, on humanitarian and legal grounds, but with the undertaking that they will return to pakistan when these trials take place. such words are words of honour and must be kept. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i think it is paragraph 5 of the resolution. the text says that the election was not monitored because of the refusal of the iranian authorities. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. so we should put it a little bit more neutrally and instead of the authorities we should say the iranian side. i ask you to correct that. this is just a factual clarification.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is also a small technical change, but i think it is important because they are prisoners. the text mentions greek and filipino sailors, but the title refers only to greek sailors. i think we agree that the filipino sailors should be released as well. i therefore ask that the title be changed accordingly. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to draw your attention to a written statement by a member of this house, mr glyn ford, in which he calls for a boycott of the products of a company in the european union. the commission has also proposed that the council, the commission and the member states be informed of this. i would ask you to ask the legal service to give an opinion on this, whether this is even permissible. in my country - in germany - that would be legally unacceptable.
the rapporteur. the commission is not we have the enormous task of bringing about a new synthesis of the aims of society while remaining committed to the ideals which define the character and the reputation of europe. this new synthesis must be established between work as a factor of social integration, equal opportunities and the needs of the economy, competitiveness and job creation. this quote from the 1993 white paper by jacques delors has lost none of its validity, and i think that the fact that the white paper was never implemented, despite the fact that all the heads of state and government and this european parliament have praised and supported it, shows how important it is not to let the lisbon process continue to stall, but to do everything possible to implement this lisbon process - as the irish presidency of the council fortunately also wants to do - at national and local level. i am missing progress in implementation, and this progress in implementation is above all to be missed because all the member states are hiding behind the argument that further progress is not to be funded. i think that this pretext should no longer apply, because on the one hand we now have the investment initiative - albeit a very modest one, and certainly not going to have the effects that the marshall plan had with even less money for reconstruction - and on the other hand we are not thinking about how to recover the revenue that has been lost through greater coordination between the member states, and this applies not only to the fight against organised crime or undeclared work, but above all to the fight against tax evasion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it is also high time that we no longer think only of the european investment bank and its really valuable contributions to the organization of growth when it comes to financing, but that we reconsider and consider whether this european union should not finally adopt the eurobond instrument, which we also discussed back in 1993. the spring summit this year must indeed build confidence - we have called for this before the spring summit in thessaloniki - but it must also show that there is a visible added value in europe that can be achieved by pulling together. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are the areas of environmental investment, energy saving investment, investment in alternative energy sources to generate sustainable growth with employment effects, and there are also - as has been rightly said - investment in people, the most valuable resource of this european union. it covers early childhood through tertiary education and lifelong learning. i would like to remind you that we need to invest in social services alongside investment in education and training. we will never achieve reconciliation of work and family life in europe unless, for example, childcare measures are improved. here, europe has a lot of catching up to do in most member states, but not all. the world commission on the social profile of globalisation also underlines our call in its report which came out this week, and i think it shows that today it is not just about recipes, but also about the political will to pull the strings. europe can no longer wait for the growth of the united states. europe must therefore pull itself out of the quagmire of mass unemployment, lack of investment and lack of coordination. i believe that this is a challenge for this spring summit, and i very much hope that we will succeed in convincing governments that the steps taken so far will not be enough to organise the sustainability that is important to us all - also in the interests of future generations. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union is in a difficult situation. we have a central monetary policy with the european central bank in charge and a decentralized financial and economic policy. for this to work at all, for us to develop the single market, the stability and growth pact is the key, and i am calling for everyone to adhere to this stability and growth pact, including germany and france, the two largest countries in the euro zone. we therefore support the commission in its action before the european court of justice to clarify the competences under the stability and growth pact. but that alone is not enough. the lisbon objective requires the member states on the one hand and the commission and the european parliament on the other. the member states are called upon to bring about the necessary reforms in the labour market, social policy, taxation, location conditions and the promotion of future-oriented industrial sectors. the member states are called upon to do this, and we cannot relieve them of this responsibility. the commission is called upon to initiate a sound industrial policy. in recent years we have failed to develop a sound industrial policy alongside the promotion of services and individual steps in the european internal market. the commission has always been concerned with consumer protection and environmental protection. if we are to maintain our position in the world, we must make progress in this area. i would ask the commission to seriously consider a moratorium of three to five years on environmental and consumer legislation, which is the only way we can achieve the lisbon objectives, because we are only in the process of preparing for them. we're actually stuck. only such a moratorium by the european union, which is already a world leader in environmental protection, occupational safety and health and social protection, can make us the most competitive region in the world, as we decided in lisbon. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am almost tempted to start a debate with mr langen on moratoriums. i was against a moratorium on biotechnology and i would be against a moratorium in this case as well. but i want to focus on research, because a competitive european economy requires research policy. the surprising thing is that it is precisely in this area, where everyone is in agreement, that savings have been made in recent years, particularly in the member states. the most spectacular thing is that in france, for the first time in europe, even researchers are taking to the streets, and elsewhere they are quite ready to take to the streets as well - which is not only what farmers are doing, but apparently now also what researchers are doing. i find this very interesting, but also regrettable, because it is here that one can see clearly how the baroque sayings of heads of government and state are in contradiction with the unadorned deeds. now the finance ministers say, "we have no money". but the question is: can we not do research because we don't have money, or do we not have money because we don't do research? the example of finland - to name just one member state - shows that even in difficult times, it is possible to invest in the future and then succeed. finland is now often called the most successful country in the european union, and it has not been for very long. that means that finland has done a lot, even without the european union. i would therefore strongly urge that we as the european parliament stay on track, fight for the 3% of research expenditure and launch an innovation strategy for small and mediumsized enterprises. finally, i would ask you to be present as the european parliament at the scientific congress we are planning to organise here in brussels at the beginning of april, to make it clear that at least parliament is committed to this strategy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. sometimes i feel that in the recent past some have brought the 19th century theory that if you unleashed market forces, jobs would be created en masse out of the mothballs of history. i think that's completely wrong. if we look closely, ladies and gentlemen, where the greatest growth and employment impulses have been found in recent decades is precisely in the areas mentioned by mr langen earlier, namely in the field of sustainable development and environmental protection. i believe that it is also necessary to encourage investment activities here, particularly in the renewal of our cities, both in terms of the social and ecological components and in terms of transport. again, as regards the question of social and environmental components, it is clear that these areas have the greatest potential for growth and therefore the greatest employment implications. of course, i think it is also true that an unregulated market will also have significant negative environmental consequences. investing in these areas would help to safeguard our ecological livelihoods. i think we must remain true to the lisbon and gothenburg principles and say that we want a sustainable mode of production in europe, one that induces growth and employment based on an ecological basis of life. we have found sensible solutions in the past and we should continue to do so in a credible way. i think that we will lose credibility in many areas internationally if we now start throwing away our own objectives and agreements which we advanced in johannesburg or kyoto. we must stick to our goals and continue on this path.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the economic downturn in many member states is serious and requires more effective action. we need closer coordination between economic, employment and structural policies without seeking to harmonise. the reduction of government bureaucracy, the improvement of the structure of financial markets and the increase in investment - as my colleagues have pointed out - can create more and more sustainable jobs. but what is most lacking is coordinated cooperation in the field of lifelong learning and the introduction of european educational marketing. research in the eu has shown that too many young people have been poorly educated. but by promoting more human capital, their employability can be increased. the commission has therefore decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i also believe that social dialogue must be intensified. i believe that it is a key element in managing our social change and it is regrettable that in many member states it is more marginal. in view of the enlargement of the eu in the next two months, we must continue to pursue joint action in employment and social policy. one of the most successful elements has been and is the european employment strategy. the financial expenditure on these areas is minimal in comparison with the structural funds for enlargement. the fact that the european commission then asks the member states to increase the contributions and to continue to burden the net contributor countries is simply unacceptable. we need something else, both at european and national level: iron discipline in spending. the amendment tabled by the socialists, which dares to warn against austerity budgets, is therefore not acceptable to us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european commission is quite right about this, mr solbes mira. the budgetary offenders must be brought before the european court of justice. this is worth all political support, precisely because our companies, both workers and managers, need one thing: guaranteed and long-term stability.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if we look at the economic situation in which the european union finds itself, there are three main tasks for this summit to which we are heading: the summit has to ensure that there is firstly more investment, secondly more investment and thirdly better investment. we are lagging behind the united states in both the private and public sectors. in the public sector, by 1%. i cannot understand how, in the face of this economic situation, colleagues in this house can manage to make two recommendations to us. firstly: 'please overcome the crisis by releasing more dirt into the air' - that was the first part of mr langen's proposal. and secondly, by saying: 'please continue on this stubborn course of saving the economy to the point of destruction, instead of giving it the necessary impetus'. there are many bad economic policy textbooks, but i have not yet found one that is so bad that it would make these recommendations in an economic phase such as the one we are in now. on the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce this directive. we are in a situation where we must do what mr de rossa has said here: a dynamic attitude towards the necessary balance between stability on the one hand and capacity for action on the other. i am very much looking forward to seeing how the commission will deal with this keyword 'dynamic action, balance between stability and capacity for action'. we are looking forward to the proposals, mr solbes, and we hope for a productive discussion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the stability and growth pact is under discussion, and i think we all have reason to emphasize clearly that we need this pact for the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the letter from the six countries with consolidated budgets speaks volumes in this context, and i hope and wish that we will return to the conclusions reached, also with regard to this pact. if you want to change the law, you should seek a majority - this also applies to this pact - but you do not change the law by breaking the law. secondly, the structural reform process required by the european central bank should take place in the nation states. there are deficits in germany in particular. if you read these days that the average gross domestic product per capita in germany has fallen and germany is in fourth place, it speaks volumes. it certainly does not speak in favour of the social democrats governing well in germany. that would also mean that mr verheugen is already disqualifying himself as a supercommissioner here in brussels simply because he is a member of that party. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. no, there is a need to save money at european level too, and that is why i cannot understand the commission's request to increase the budget by 50%. this would also be a burden on net contributors within the european union. some people in this house would benefit from a process of reflection, a process of reflection, and i believe that the european union as a whole would benefit from a period of consolidation.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, the question that has been put is intended to avoid any misunderstanding and to eliminate any possible interference between the current codecision procedure on guidelines for the development of the transeuropean transport network and the list of priority project sections identified by the commission in its communication to the council of 11 november on the growth initiative, and the sections and projects identified and considered as recipients of community funding now available and of credits from the european investment bank. the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on whose behalf i am raising this question, asks the council to assess the value of this communication. on 27 january, commission vice-president loyola de palacio explained in writing to the parliamentary committee of which i am a member that the communication on the growth initiative and the list of so-called priority projects are not legally binding documents, nor are they a list of sections to be given preferential treatment. the commission therefore considers that this is only a non-exhaustive list of actions within the priority projects which have been identified by the european commission and the member states as sufficiently mature for immediate start of work, with stimulating effects on the european economy. it seems necessary that the council today confirm the commission's statement and explain further how it intends to proceed to ensure that in no way does the indication of the sections of projects proposed by the european commission have priority value before the co-decision procedure on the guidelines for the development of the transeuropean transport network, currently under way, is concluded. the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, which i represent here, is aware of the opportunity to give the most urgent start to work which, in addition to building the infrastructure necessary for the creation of the single market throughout the enlarged europe, can make a serious contribution to the revival of the european economy that everyone is waiting for and which was discussed until a few minutes ago. that is why the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism is working and will continue to work in the coming weeks to ensure that the guidelines can be adopted within the current european legislature. to this end, the commitment made by the european parliament must be respected, and the same commitment must be made by the council, not only to respect the time we have set ourselves, but also to demonstrate the will to seek a real competition of will so that the codecision procedure has meaning and significance and does not leave the impression that decisions have already been taken between the commission and the council without parliament being able to fully express its duties and prerogatives. an early conclusion of the codecision procedure on the guidelines for the development of the trans-european network would undoubtedly also allow the list of mature projects to be launched, a list which should not be regarded as already defined, but which will have to be redefined also in the context of a codecision procedure in line with the above guidelines. the relaunch of the european economy and the physical construction of the european single market would be achieved without contradictions only if we conclude the codecision work on the transeuropean transport network promptly and only then identify mature projects on which to commit the union's resources, as well as urge the member states to start work.
council. mr president, at its meeting of 12 and 13 december 2003, the european council endorsed the european action plan for growth on the basis of the reports presented by ecofin, the commission and the european investment bank. the action is an important step in the implementation of the lisbon agenda to improve competitiveness, employment and growth potential in the enlarged union. structural reform will be complemented by higher investment in both physical and human capital. the council also welcomed the work carried out by the commission and the eib – and by the relevant configurations of the council itself – in the establishment of the quick start programme. identification was also made according to a strict set of criteria of a provisional list of projects for immediate action. the council also recommended that if other projects fulfil the same criteria the list may be complemented in accordance with the procedures followed for its establishment in the framework of the annual cycle for reporting to the spring european council. i would like to confirm to members that the commission’s communication to the council on 'the european initiative for growth – investing in knowledge and networks', as well as reports from the eib and the different council formations in this regard, constitute guidelines only. in order to be taken forward they should be enshrined in a formal legal instrument – in this case, a decision of the council and the european parliament. the commission communication is a non-exhaustive list of actions within the priority projects which have been identified by the commission and the member states. these projects are considered to be sufficiently mature to commence immediately and thus stimulate the european economy at present. it is important that the council and the parliament pursue their constructive engagement in the current discussions on the revision of the guidelines. in this respect council welcomes the letter from president cox to president prodi dated november 2003.the presidency is strongly committed to ensuring that the work on this critically important dossier should be successfully completed by the end of this parliament’s term. it is essential, therefore, that the eu’s institutions work together to bring forward this work. we recognise that the european parliament has a particularly important role to play in this process. agreement will open the way for crucial investment to be disbursed on key network projects and thus facilitate the pursuit of our fundamental objective of promoting economic growth for the enlarged union. the adoption of the draft decision on tens on the eve of enlargement – by 1 may – would have considerable symbolic importance. it would also provide a welcome illustration of the eu's commitment to the rapid integration of the economies of the new member states. as a final point, may i add that i listened very carefully to mr costa's contribution to the debate. there seemed to be some concern about parliament's potential to contribute to this area. this has perhaps not been fully acknowledged. i would like to assure him and the house that the matter in focus is part of a bigger issue in which the parliament and its talents will be fully engaged by the irish presidency.
the council has already taken a decision on the matter. that was not enough, mr president-in-office. i repeat, your explanation was not sufficient. the committee chairman asked quite specifically whether the council agrees with the statement that the quick start list is essentially a personal list of the council but does not bind parliament. you didn't answer that question. i find that extremely sad. you have started to make a big statement about why the quick start list is necessary, but you have not addressed the fact that this quick start list gives the impression - and i think it still gives after your speech - that you wanted to exclude parliament from setting priorities. we have tried to make it clear to you - and we have built golden bridges - that annex iii of the ten projects, the priority projects, are to be decided by us together, and that the council cannot now draw up a special list within the priority projects alone, saying: 'of the 30 projects, i think these and those are the most beautiful, and i am now deciding that we shall start with them. you tried to defuse the matter by saying that it would be done after the construction was completed, after the financing was completed. yes: the council does not decide which projects are to be taken up and when, but it is the criteria under annex iii that decide which projects are ready for construction, which projects are ready for planning and which projects are ready for financing. i would ask you again to clarify whether the quick start list is legally binding on anyone or whether you have tried to use the quick start list to circumvent the joint decision-making right of parliament and the council on priority projects. i can at least tell my group that we will not allow that to happen. we will not allow the council to unilaterally disregard parliament's rights by means of a so-called quick start list.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am surprised to see the commission so absent from this important debate. i would like to add to what my colleagues have said that commissioner de palacio is not particularly democratic in her approach to this dossier. it has twice tried to interfere in the internal affairs of this european parliament, once by writing to the committee chairman to say who should be rapporteur on this dossier and secondly by urging the political groups to have a simple procedure and not a full codecision procedure. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we must promote a full codecision procedure and represent our objectives here, because we have a responsibility towards the citizens who pay for investment projects with their taxes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a personal statement to reject the attacks on mrs de palacio. mrs de palacio did not try to influence the transport committee in any way, but she did offer to help to complete the dossier on transeuropean networks, and that was very valuable. but i would like to ask the president of the council: does he have anything to say to us? are our questions so unimportant that he won't give us an answer?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to present to you today the guidelines for the other specific plans and the preliminary draft of the european parliament's estimates for 2005. i intend to keep the guidelines as short and precise as possible and to concentrate on the essentials. some details and the consideration of specific measures should be reserved for the resolution on the estimate. let me briefly touch on some aspects of this year's guidelines. the specific feature of the 2005 financial year is that it will be the first full financial year of the enlarged union, the first full year of operation of the newly elected european parliament, the newly appointed commission and the first full year of implementation of the new staff regulations. the ceiling of heading 5 of the financial perspective for 2005 will be reduced by eur 94 million in current prices as a result of the technical adjustment. these budgetary constraints for 2005 mean that the creation of new institutions, such as the european school of management, will have to be postponed unless savings are achieved by setting up such institutions. the staff or the number of staff has increased rapidly in most institutions to meet the needs of enlargement. most of the additional needs linked to enlargement have already been taken into account in the 2002-04 budgets, although a number of measures still need to be taken. in view of the delay in recruitment, the budgetary situation will be subject to a thorough assessment in the light of the 2005 budget. as regards the financial impact of enlargement on the institutions' buildings, it is assumed that it will be felt mainly after 2005. the administrative reform of the institutions will also be one of the central issues for the 2005 budgetary procedure. let me now turn to the parliament's specific plan i. there are some uncertainties for 2005 which need to be taken into account when drawing up parliament's 2005 budget, such as the unfortunately not yet reached agreement on the statute for members, the success of the 2004 enlargement recruitment process and the development of some real estate projects. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the budget. it is regrettable that the member states have not yet been able to agree on a statute for members of the european parliament, and it is desirable that progress be made in this respect during 2004. the same applies to the adoption of a statute for assistants. as regards the financing of the european political parties, i think we can agree that, in principle, this expenditure does not fall under the 20% ceiling of heading 5 which has been set by the commission itself, since it is not parliament's administrative expenditure but operational appropriations. i am prepared to compromise on one point and to follow the text of mrs buitenweg in amendment no 8, which leaves open the option of financing this expenditure within the 20% threshold. in view of the delay in the recruitment procedures for staff from the new member states and the difficulties encountered, in particular, in recruiting translators and interpreters from some of the new member states, a decision on the allocation of appropriations for additional enlargement-related recruitment should be taken only at the first reading of the 2005 budget. a mid-term timetable for the real estate projects is needed to determine the volume of parliament's 2005 budget, taking into account the extraordinary write-offs that may have to be made to pursue the real estate policy. as regards the transport service, the operation of the members' availability should be reassessed in order to ensure optimal cost-benefit ratio. the council is invited to consider presenting its budget proposal to increase transparency in the context of the preliminary draft budget rather than at first reading. secondly, parliament will continue to monitor the council's operational budget while respecting the gentleman's agreement on administrative expenditure. the court of justice: in this section, it can be seen that the rate of increase in staff at the court of justice has been higher in recent years than in most other institutions. section v, on the court of auditors: the court of auditors allocated an enlargement-related increase in staff to the financial years 2004 and 2005. economic and social committee, committee of the regions, specific plans vi and vii: the two committees are invited to follow budgetary prudence in their budget estimates, particularly in respect of staff applications and real estate projects, and to improve cooperation on common services in order to take full advantage of the new common premises. it is expected that the move to the belliard building and the evacuation of the buildings currently in use can proceed as planned. ladies and gentlemen, we have brought back to the plenary only those points which i consider very important and whose support i am asking for, out of the few which were not voted on in the committee on budgets.
the rapporteur. the commission is not the work has gone a little faster, and i think that perhaps the young people have overtaken us. youth is always the present of the future, and the value of a society's youth is measured by the extent to which it opens up options for the future and involves young people in preparing for the future. a dynamic society must also offer its younger generation opportunities and security in many ways, firstly in terms of material living and social recognition, but also in terms of human cohesion. what can we do now to keep alive the white paper 'a new impetus for europe's youth' - i am glad that the commissioner has also seen the time a little differently - which, after two years of maturity and much consultation with all those concerned, saw the light of europe in november 2001? i believe that the commission, the council and parliament are on the right track. we must involve the 75 million young people aged 15 to 25 in our soon to be 25 member states. we must bring the young people and their organisations into the political arena. as rapporteur for youth and the white paper, i have followed the debate over the last few years and listened carefully to what young europeans have told us. the result of these many discussions was that young people want to be taken seriously and we must not disappoint their expectations. we have been able to achieve a significant strengthening of youth policy with young people and their organisations, with ngos, with political leaders in the eu and in the member states. if we look at the white paper more from the point of view of open coordination and mainstreaming, the commission's communication on follow-up measures is now about the participation and information of young people. we must involve young people earlier and more intensively so that they can participate in representative democracy at regional, national and european levels. we are saying this in front of an almost empty house at a late hour, and it would be so important, especially in the run-up to the european elections, to show a vital interest in the concern to involve young people. young people are increasingly communicating via the internet. the commission has set up a youth portal to this end. but that is far from enough. we need information for the young people on the ground, information tailored to young people. the aim is to ensure that young people experience equal opportunities and non-discrimination, for example in youth councils with equal representation. where they do not already exist, they must be established. formal and non-formal education needs to be more closely linked to youth work. the experience of the youth programme, with hundreds of thousands of encounters and several thousand projects of european voluntary service, points the way to learning social competence and european thinking. if we are to make europe the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world, we must make every effort to leave no young person behind. it is precisely the supposedly vulnerable, the migrants, the girls, the young men who live on the margins of the european union, who live on the margins of society, that we must involve in the processes. regional cooperation, culture and sport as a bridge to overcome prejudices help to solve the problems of tomorrow. in november 2003, the council agreed on common objectives. the new lines of action will be evaluated for the first time by the end of 2005 on the basis of all the reports from the member states, on which the commission will build a progress report. last year the first european youth week received a great deal of support. we worked to 'overcome exclusion' at an early stage, to build new fields of action and the new youth action programme, and to equip it financially to meet the growing challenges of a globalised world, and ultimately to give young people the freedom to take an active part in the responsibility for future european politics. we have thus succeeded in using this broad synergy between the commission and parliament, between all the political groups, to reach out to young people and to involve them, also in cooperation with the member states. that is the aim: to keep the wheel running, to strengthen young people and youth policy in europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think that mr graça moura has presented a report which really shows how schools can provide the public with access to culture. the commission has rightly pointed out that there is still a wide gap between this theory on paper and the practice in our european schools. to close this gap, greater sensitivity must be achieved, because in our very complex and diverse time, schools have one task to perform: to convey cultural openness. this does not mean that the national cultural heritage is being disregarded, but it is also necessary to establish a broad cultural openness which makes it possible to live together across borders without hostility, without any hostility being able to arise in the first place. if i remember my own school days, i have a very vivid memory of an exchange of pupils with sweden, and at that time germany was not a popular country - we had just finished the war - and the swedes were ready to enter into a cultural dialogue here with pupils from my country. it's shaped me for a long time, and i think this is the right way to go. i therefore attach particular importance in my amendments, which have been approved, to making it clear that the school is now more than ever a place for intercultural dialogue. in my day, we didn't have turks or italians in school. today, however, the national mix in school is the norm. this means that there is also a great opportunity to conduct intercultural dialogue and thus to transmit values that respect each other and make equality possible even in diversity. the report also expresses this concern and i think that is what we must try to do on the ground. it is not enough to say that the european union is a great example of a great community, but it is also necessary to say that the european union is a great example of a great community. you have pointed out, commissioner, that the family plays a role here. i picked up on that, too. the cooperation between parents and schools is a prerequisite for really coming up with a comprehensive approach that can be supported by all, and for bringing in a personal interest rate. i hope that what we have said here will be accepted by the majority and that it will eventually be translated into policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my group expressly supports the critical positions expressed in the belder report. it is an unacceptable situation in chechnya; the russian military's actions there are massive human rights violations. we have a worrying internal political development in russia, the so-called directed democracy is becoming increasingly authoritarian, and we also have a very critical position on russia's dealings with the new countries of the european union. the european union has in the past pursued a two-pronged strategy towards russia. the basis for this was that russia is and must be one of the most important strategic partners. the two-pronged strategy does not mean that we should not criticize, on the contrary. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the region, and that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the region. at the same time, we have also been striving to achieve a lasting mutual interconnection between russia and the european union - not just through the partnership and cooperation agreement. i think this is the wrong time to question that very strategy. we are also missing the opportunity to deal effectively with the internal political developments or the situation in chechnya. i think we should also be much more serious about the social situation in russia. in russia, the life expectancy of men has decreased by ten years in the last 12 years. this is a tragic development that characterizes the situation in which large parts of the country find themselves. if i support criticism of russian policy, i would have wished, mr belder, that what you have just said in your speech would have been made clear in the report, namely a sharp criticism of the actions of the council and the european governments, which are not dealing with russia strategically but cyclically. since 11 september, many governments - not only berlusconi, but also the german federal government, for example - have allowed the war in chechnya to be played down in the context of the fight against terrorism, and we have remained silent. i think it is not enough to understand russia as a strategic partner only in economic terms or in terms of our secure borders, the prevention of human trafficking. we must create a mutual penetration of relations with russia.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. russia is a great and important partner with whom we share two things - common interests and common values. we have to criticize these values today, as regards the development of the rule of law and democracy, and also as regards the situation in chechnya. but we must not lose sight of the fact that there are also a great many common interests. it is important, especially at the time of the enlargement of the european union, that the borders between the european union and russia do not become new barricades, but that we also use them as bridges, because that is how the partnership and cooperation agreement is to be extended. it is important that we provide aid because this is also aid for liberalisation within the country. it is important that russia can join the wto on the terms for all and not on special terms, and on the normal terms we should support russia's accession. we have common interests in the fields of energy, security and the fight against terrorism. i think we should make this clear, and we should not allow the situation in belarus to prevent the supply of energy to the european union from being carried out in the way agreed in the treaty. the enlargement of the eu does not create a new situation in many areas and the issues should not be confused. the renewal of the partnership and cooperation agreement as a result of the enlargement of the european union must not lead us to accept claims for compensation in the area of trade, because then the whole world could do the same, and i believe that such a precedent would not be acceptable, especially since the question arises whether the figures given by russia are correct. we must also make it clear that the european union has contributed to the accession negotiations in the baltic states, which have led to the situation of minorities in those countries today, which is not the same as in many other parts of the world and perhaps even in certain parts of russia. the minority issue cannot be an alibi for the fact that the border treaties have either not yet been signed or, in any case, have not yet been ratified. we must also be clear about this if we are to achieve this. we should help russia technically and through cooperation to establish visa-free travel, but this must be done in such a way that schengen standards for applicant countries can be maintained so that we can secure the internal space. this should be done in the pursuit of good relations with russia and in recognition of the fact that russia can only be a factor of stability if we also accept that there is russian territorial stability. this should also be included.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since the fundamental change in europe, relations with russia have become very complex. a number of treaties and agreements have established dialogue and cooperation which takes place in many international institutions and the partnership and cooperation agreement provides for regular meetings at the highest level between the eu and russia. but as far as this whole dialogue is concerned, i have the growing impression that it is frozen in rituals of regularity. i believe it was commissioner patten who said a few months ago in the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy that he had the impression that the speeches on russia which were being prepared for him had not changed substantially for some time. of course, politics is always the art of the doable, and that means that a big country like russia will always be seen differently than a small country that is not behaving properly. the atrocities against civilians in kosovo and chechnya are certainly comparable in scale, but it is clear that our response to russia will be and is obviously different. i would urge the council to address the issues on the agenda which have not been satisfactorily resolved and not to shy away from them. the council's absence from this debate today is a form of shying away. there can be no compromise on partnership and cooperation agreements and the adoption and extension of all the new accession countries, and russia should also look closely at how, for example, customs tariffs have changed in relation to the earlier bilateral agreements with some of the candidate countries. now, with the eu, for example, customs duties are also falling. so it's not just that there are disadvantages to countries joining the european union now. chechnya has been mentioned several times. i think that we should not just appeal to it or ignore it. i have always been of the opinion that we must also reorient the resources we use for cooperation with russia. we must try to support the weak structures of civil society that exist in russia so that this society can develop democratically from below and not in the way that we have unfortunately experienced in recent months.
commission. mr president, the commission very much welcomes this timely and thoughtful report and i would like to congratulate the honourable member on his work in producing it. the evolution of the report over a number of years demonstrates the parliament’s commitment to ensuring that the south caucasus region attracts the attention it requires. the attention and time given to the report has allowed it to be refined and focused so that it provides an extremely useful policy tool. the commission shares the analysis of the dangers and difficulties facing the region and we are pursuing policies that should encourage stabilisation there. to that end, our country strategies place the fight against corruption, and support for institution-building and poverty reduction, at the very heart of our assistance. for the region we have programmes dealing with drug trafficking, border management and environmental matters. unless these key issues are tackled, the chances of achieving stability in the region will be very greatly diminished. we have pursued these objectives since the southern caucasus counties achieved independence in 1991 and we have devoted over eur 1 billion of assistance to the region. we will continue to be ambitious in our efforts while working within constraints of the resources provided by the budgetary authority. time prevents me from covering each of the many issues highlighted in the report in detail, so i hope the house will excuse me for focusing on what i think are two key points: namely, the relationship which the honourable member referred to between the southern caucasus and the european neighbourhood policy, and the role of the commission in assisting conflict settlement. on the relationship between the southern caucasus and the european neighbourhood policy, the general affairs and external relations council, in its discussions of 26 january 2004 on how best to support the new leadership in georgia, concluded thus: 'the council invites the commission, in consultation with the high representative, and taking account of the eu special representative’s proposals, to bring forward a recommendation on the relationship of armenia, azerbaijan and georgia to the european neighbourhood policy. the council looks forward to considering this recommendation before the end of the irish presidency.' i hope that we may be able to bring forward that idea, perhaps in may, but certainly by the end of the present presidency. i very much welcome that commitment. accordingly, the eu is closely monitoring developments in all three countries to see whether there is continued progress towards democracy and in the economic sphere. we want to see a credible and a sustained commitment to reform, clearly reflected in concrete steps forward, for example in fighting corruption. on the issue of conflict resolution and reconciliation, the european commission continues to provide its full support to the osce and to the united nations in their efforts to solve the region’s frozen conflicts. i was pleased that we were able to discuss some of these matters with the presidency-in-office of the osce at the beginning of this week. we stand ready to assist in post-conflict reconstruction following peace settlements, or to assist measures agreed between the parties to the conflict which would reduce tensions and raise confidence between the two sides. i am very pleased to say that the commission has recently been able to implement a third phase of post-conflict rehabilitation activities in the georgia-south ossetian conflict zone to assist the return of internally displaced people and refugees, and the restoration of infrastructure which will, we hope, help to build confidence between the two communities. the very welcome appointment of the eu special representative for the south caucasus in 2003 was an important step for the eu. the commission is pleased to be fully associated with his work and we value his close cooperation. the report which the honourable member has presented rightly identifies the need further to develop eu policy for the region; we look forward to participating in this important process with the special representative. the european commission takes note of the call for a stability pact for the region. when the issue was first raised a couple of years ago there did not seem to be that much support for the idea, and i am not yet wholly convinced that the time is yet ripe to return to it. it certainly has budgetary consequences which we would want to look at in some detail. let me conclude my rather rapid overview of the subject by once again commending the rapporteur on his report. i would like to thank him for what i am sure will be an extremely important contribution to the debate on the eu’s policy for the south caucasus region.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy. the commission is not it was actually easy for the committee on industry to write a report on this agreement because we believe in principle that we must involve as much as possible all the countries which are geographically close to us in our research and development programmes. we must ensure that we stabilise their smes, that we support smes and improve their infrastructure. why is this such a big deal to us? simply because we live in an interdependence. if there are nuclear power plants in some of these countries that are not safe, if something should happen, it will have an impact, a direct impact on us, simply by geography. so we are in a win-win situation here, as we are trying to export as much of our know-how and knowledge as possible there. we are therefore concerned that our aid programmes, such as tacis, should also be self-help and support programmes, so that the developing countries do not make the same mistakes as we have made in the course of our industrial history. we are also dependent on the region for our energy supply, for example the transport of oil. so it is in our direct interest that the pipelines are safe, that the tankers that come to us are safe and do not pollute our seas. in this sense, technological progress for the south caucasus means security and progress for us at the same time. we thank the rapporteur for his willingness to take up our suggestions and for the excellent cooperation with the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to thank mr gahrton in particular for his report and for the close cooperation he has had with our delegation for the south caucasus. he was always there to support them, to give us advice, and to be present at meetings. the independence of the states of the former soviet union is very difficult to achieve, and all these states have similar difficulties in building democracy. the european union's policy is to improve its readiness to act as a neighbour in the south caucasus and to manage the conflicts. moscow's policy is completely at odds with these goals. i think - we have just heard the report on russia - that there is an urgent need to deal with these matters. it is quite adventurous that 14 years after the collapse of the soviet union, these passports of the soviet union are still valid and are offered above all to those in the breakaway regions - in georgia for example, but also in other regions. to feed them with these passports, to give them visas and to make them virtually independent of their own countries, this is a development that is very regrettable. the energy policy has already been raised by many colleagues. i regret that the initiative of our parliament to hold an energy congress here in brussels together with the commission has so far failed for reasons of timing. i would like to ask commissioner patten once again to do everything possible to ensure that at least this year such a congress is held, because we need the hope that the union gives to these countries so that they can turn away from corruption and build truly stable democracies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a good sign that you are demonstrating the will of the house by setting up the high level working group on gender mainstreaming today. gender mainstreaming and the gender dimension in our policies must not be a matter for women alone, but particularly for men, who must be measured by how they want to incorporate equality and the democratic rights of women in their political decisions. we in the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities are very concerned that the share of women in the next european parliament will be reduced. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i can only ask all committees to take up projects in their respective areas of responsibility, as we decided to do in the report on gender mainstreaming a year ago, and to make it clear that gender mainstreaming is not just a matter for the committee on women's rights. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i don't think there was any need for counseling. it was once in the committee when we asked for an expert report - which is more of a cost-benefit analysis - on this report. you turned against that report. today we have this report, and it clearly states where the policy should go. i therefore see no reason at all to postpone the vote today or this week, if only because we have too many reports in the other strasbourg weeks. mr. kronberger, if you're following us, you're on the right side! i therefore ask that the vote be taken.
thank you very much, mr president. we don't want to discuss the content. there has already been a debate in committee. the report quoted by mr florenz also existed, but it was not mr florenz who was right, but my group and mr kronberger's approach. it is sensible to postpone the vote. we are at the end of the parliamentary term and we want to achieve agreement at first reading if possible, so that we do not have to start over in a new parliament, have another first reading and then discuss the common position. the vote itself at the next partsession will not take much time either, so i ask you, mr president, to put it to the vote. my group will ask for this and thereby support mr kronberger's decision to hold the debate this week.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is a good sign that we are having this debate today on international women's day, that we are raising awareness in our countries of how we are engaged, for example, in the fight against violence. we have achieved a great deal, as mrs karamanou has indicated, we have achieved a great deal in finland, which was the first country in europe to give women the right to vote, a hundred years ago. because only results count, and not a single result came by itself, it was always a hard struggle of the women. today we are faced with a situation which i, as rapporteur for the daphne programme, would like to describe as the tip of the iceberg. i am referring to the dutroux case, a case in which we are faced with a whole swamp of violence against women and children. we are witnessing, so to speak, the initiative which led to the daphne programme ten years ago, when the crimes of dutroux were uncovered, now forming a direct bridge to the second phase of the daphne programme for preventing and combating violence against children, young people and women. the second phase, from 2004 to 2008, is accompanied by a significant increase in funding, and i must remind you that in the first phase we had 5 million per year. now we have 10 million a year. this is still a small step in the right direction, but this doubling of the annual budget is urgently needed, since only 13% of the good projects under daphne i have been funded. many of the findings from the first phase of daphne have been incorporated into the new programme. we have been fighting for a long time with the commission and the council to set up a helpdesk for ngos that are applying for the programme for the first time - especially from the new member states, where the structures of women's ngos are still very weak. amendment no 5 has now been formulated in a way that the council can accept, and i hope that we can reach an agreement quickly. the draft report also includes a proposal to designate 2006 as the european year against violence, with a view to developing further initiatives in a broad public debate to curb the deadly virus of violence. i can only give you one number: the international organisation for migration estimates that 500,000 women are trafficked into the european union for sexual exploitation and forced prostitution. that number has now risen to 800,000, and the highly organized criminal slave-trading rings, as i like to call them, are not shy about involving children in this trade. we have also rejected, by means of an amendment, a proposal from the council to concentrate the daphne ii programme more on the perpetrators. we failed to understand that the already scarce resources should be diverted from the victims, and the perpetrators identified as a target group. in addition, in the prevention measures of daphne i, the work of the perpetrator and the victim are already intertwined and possible. informal discussions between the council, the commission and my committee have shown that we can agree on the proposals we are putting forward as amendments in the committee on women's rights. it would be a clear signal to women if we were to support these amendments by a large majority tomorrow. a clear signal to women and organisations in europe that we are taking up the fight against violence, that we are not standing by and watching criminal gangs make billions in business. i thank the commission, especially commissioner vitorino, i thank the irish presidency and the italian presidency for their cooperation, and i hope that these five amendments will be widely supported tomorrow and that the common position as amended can then enter into force quickly, because the programme of work necessary to combat violence is urgently needed. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank my colleague, regina bastos, for putting the issue of reconciliation between work and family at the heart of the debate with her own-initiative report. the family is the smallest unit in the state. it is the foundation of a functioning society and must be at the centre of its interests. but unfortunately, our families are in crisis today. we have not yet achieved our goal of reconciling family and work. work must be geared to the family and not the family to work. the framework conditions for caring for children or elderly family members must be created so that the two can be linked. the key to a better balance between family and work is, of course, the partnership between husband and wife, both in relation to child rearing and to all housework. we know that this cannot be politically decreed, but we must talk about it again and again. women still bear the brunt of the family work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. it must be recognized as a socially valuable work and must not continue to be discriminated against. the freedom of choice for family members to take care of or delegate household work and child rearing must be improved. families should be able to have parts of their work done by outside forces. it is therefore necessary to recognise that it is also possible to create skilled jobs for the labour market in private households. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that women are not discriminated against in the workplace. vocational training opportunities must also be offered during parental leave to facilitate reintegration after the family phase. these are some of the things that need to be turned around, but we need to turn a lot of wheels in order to achieve the balance that balances family and work life for men and women.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the 1990s were the years of the major un conferences, which gave new impetus to international cooperation and in particular to the relationship between poor and rich countries. one of these was the international conference on population and development in cairo in september 1994. the forthcoming tenth anniversary must be an occasion for us to take stock of what has become of the ambitious platform for action adopted by a remarkable 179 countries at the time. the result, to anticipate so much, is rather disappointing, compared with the demands made at the time. for the first time, population development in cairo was put in the context of global development and key development policy objectives, whereas previously population development was treated as an isolated issue and birth and family planning were not put in a societal context. the first time this has been done is the main achievement of cairo. the priorities adopted were: poverty eradication, sustainable economic growth, educational opportunities for all sections of the population, especially girls and women, gender equality and equity, protection, support and promotion of the family, universal access to reproductive health, family planning and sexual health services, reduction of infant, child and maternal mortality. the cairo programme of action puts the right - i stress - to reproductive health and family planning at the centre of a new understanding of population policy. this is the main thrust of my report. the accompanying data sets show the dramatic situation of women's reproductive health in developing countries and the still high rates of maternal, infant and child mortality. here are some facts about the plight of women worldwide: every year, one million women die from the consequences of infections of the reproductive system, including sexually transmitted diseases not related to hiv/aids. but every minute, ten people are infected with the hiv virus, half of them under the age of 24. every minute, a woman dies from pregnancy-related causes. at least 75 million of the 175 million pregnancies each year are unintended. every minute, about 100 pregnancies are terminated, 40 of them by people who have no medical training. 70,000 women die every year from abortion. i would like to make a few comments on the report by mrs larive, which i am sure will be of great interest to the house. if that many young men were dying every day - about 1,450 a day, or 529,000 a year - from largely preventable causes, a prominent african doctor said, it would be a matter for the un security council. the risks are, however, very unevenly distributed. in developing countries, complications during pregnancy and childbirth are the leading cause of death and disability among women of childbearing age. in other words, the risk of dying during or as a result of pregnancy is 150 times higher for women in sub-saharan africa than in europe. in denmark, a woman dies every four months from these causes, in afghanistan every 26 minutes. i could go on and on. these data should make it clear that comprehensive action is needed. the signatory countries of the cairo conference have committed billions of dollars to this end. but they have largely failed to meet that obligation. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the financing of the community's external action in the field of the environment. the united kingdom has set a good example in recent days. the budget for the un family planning organization has been increased from £4.5 million to £6 million a year. this was also in response to the restrictive bush policy which had provoked worldwide protest. the committee on population and development of the united nations economic and social council also recently looked back at cairo and concluded that the issue of population and reproductive health is of great importance and must therefore be included in development programmes and poverty reduction strategies. the only way to achieve the millennium development goals. this is in line with the conclusions of my report, which is addressed to the commission accordingly, because european development cooperation must also actively contribute to ensuring that all couples and individuals can exercise the fundamental right to decide freely and under their own responsibility, in good health, on the number of their children and the timing of parenthood. international women's day has been a political day of struggle for women's rights for over 90 years. there is still a lot to be done in europe too - we have heard it, that is true - but we must also admit, dear european sisters, that we are mourning at a rather high level. we have achieved what most women in developing countries can only dream of. the international women's day must make us aware once again that it is about international solidarity. the message of my report, cairo plus 10, is also that the sisters of europe are with you, ladies and gentlemen of the countries of the south! there, too, the flashes of light are increasing. which parliament do you think has the highest proportion of women in the world? finland? sweden? both are doing well, but rwanda is doing even better with over 48% of women mps. this gives reason for hope.
the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 11 november last year the commission adopted a proposal for a council regulation establishing a european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders, thus responding to the calls of the thessaloniki and brussels european councils. historically, schengen cooperation was of a purely intergovernmental nature. with the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam, competence for the management of the external borders was transferred to the community. in this sense, the creation of an agency does not imply that the commission's powers are being delegated to an independent community body. on the contrary, the member states are transferring some of their competences to the community through the agency. the agency will therefore be responsible for the operational activities which are already carried out today by the so-called 'common body', the common unit, which operates exclusively within the council, or by the member states themselves at the level of their ad hoc centres for land, sea and air border control. the commission therefore considers that this proposal is an important step towards the community-wide management of the external borders of the member states. the agency will not be directly integrated into the community policy model, nor will it be given law enforcement powers. it is not a question of creating a european border guard. the agency shall support the operational implementation, by the competent authorities of the member states, of common rules on external border control which constitute the schengen acquis. the agency's main tasks shall be to coordinate operational cooperation between member states, to assist member states in the training of their border guards, to carry out risk assessments, to monitor the development of research on external border control and surveillance, to provide enhanced operational and technical assistance to member states in need of such assistance and to coordinate operational cooperation between member states on the removal of third-country nationals. the agency may establish its own specialised sections, thus incorporating the work currently carried out by the land, air and maritime centres as constituted. as regards the financing of the agency's activities, its revenue shall consist of a grant from the community budget, a financial contribution from the third countries associated with the implementation, in particular norway and iceland, of the schengen acquis and the fees charged for services provided by the agency to the member states. the commission believes that the agency should start operating at the beginning of 2005. it will have a staff of 30 and an initial budget of eur 6 million in 2005 and eur 10 million in 2006. the agency will have a management board which, in the commission's proposal, should have 12 representatives of the member states appointed by the council and two representatives of the commission. the functioning of the agency shall be the responsibility of an executive director appointed by the management board on a proposal from the commission. article 66 of the treaty is the legal basis. in view of the variable geometry applicable to title iv of the treaty, norway and iceland, as schengen states, shall participate in this regulation. denmark may participate in it under the conditions laid down in the protocol annexed to the treaty. as regards the position of the united kingdom and ireland, the commission is in favour of inclusion which would allow continued cooperation at operational level between the united kingdom, ireland and the schengen states in full respect of the treaty. the council has been discussing this proposal since november. it has reached a political agreement, but has made a number of amendments, which i shall mention below: the council intends that the management board of the agency shall be composed of one representative from each member state, including norway and iceland, and two representatives from the commission. the council also wished to limit the agency's powers in relation to the removal of illegally staying third-country nationals. the council also introduced a new task of facilitating operational cooperation between member states and third countries. it is the firm intention of the irish presidency to secure the adoption of the commission's proposal before the end of its mandate. and the commission supports all efforts by both parliament and the council to bring the legislative process to a conclusion as soon as possible so that the agency is operational by january 2005.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the protection of the eu's external borders is in the interest of all eu countries. while austria, germany and the benelux countries will soon no longer have to secure any relevant eu external border, italy alone will have to control 7,600 km of maritime border, half of which is to the adriatic and the southern mediterranean. europe must not leave italy or the new member states in central and eastern europe alone in this task. in particular, common standards must be established. the commission has finally responded to a longstanding request from parliament by proposing the establishment of a european agency for operational cooperation at the external borders. as far back as 1998, mr posselt called in his report for the protection of the eu's external borders to be a community matter. in april 2002, commissioner verheugen considered this requirement to be unnecessary in our committee. the commission is finally acting, late, almost too late, because enlargement is in two months. as a parliament we are regularly not very enthusiastic about the idea of setting up an agency, because at the moment many new eu agencies are sprouting up like weeds all over europe, fragmenting the commission's powers and creating control deficits. we welcome the establishment of this agency, however, because it is the first step towards a community approach to external border control and the transfer of corresponding competences to the eu level. unfortunately, this is only part of the message. the devil is in the detail, as always. first of all, the content of the commission's proposal of november 2003. the agency is responsible for coordinating operational cooperation between member states, supporting the training of officials, carrying out risk analyses and monitoring research developments. the committee did not understand why the agency should also coordinate the deportation of illegal third-country nationals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the agency should also focus on border protection and not on other tasks. the agency has been denied another necessary core competence. the commission will be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules on the control of the use of the financial system by the member states. why would you do that? the agency should already be evaluating and analysing the results of joint actions in a comprehensive way. how can she do that if she can't get a picture of the situation on the ground? here, competence is created without control mechanisms. this leads to inefficiency. the committee on budgets has already taken a number of important decisions on the basis of the report by mr genscher. at the very least, the agency must remain responsible for examining whether such a facility is necessary. but the structure of this agency remains its greatest evil. commissioner vitorino, no expert believes that such an agency with 27 employees will even function in the slightest. at least 45 to 50 staff, almost twice the number of staff, will be needed. they propose that the management board should be composed of 12 members appointed by the council and two representatives of the commission, and that the executive director should be elected by the members of the management board. this is an escape from your own responsibility! why is the management board not composed of the commission and the council on an equal footing and why is there no public tender for the post of executive director, like for other important eu heads of state? we want the agency to be closely linked to the commission. i am not saying that the commission should be responsible for the agency. what about the parliaments of the 25 member states? no, ladies and gentlemen, we must control who gives the money. we are. you're using your construct to evade responsibility. the council's current debate shows where this is going. in the meantime, there is a new basis for discussion which has not yet been officially communicated to us and which you have not mentioned this evening. your official, commissioner, also withheld this document from the committee. the council's violation of our right to consultation is not new, but the commission's complicity is. the new proposal now calls for all member states to be represented on the administrative board. 25 boards of directors for 27 employees! europe is becoming a farce! as a compromise, an additional executive board with only 5 members is to be introduced. this is bureaucratic madness! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so let's just say the opposite of well-intentioned is badly done. we welcome the agency, but the way you're proposing it, it can't work. i shall now turn to my colleague coelho. he'll probably be my complement at this point.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur very much. the commission's position is very good, especially for us as a parliament. his criticism is, after all, also a justified criticism. i am therefore pleased to read an opinion from a member state which states that this agency will not replace national authorities but will accompany, support and evaluate them in cross-cutting tasks. it expressly does not have legislative powers, and responsibility for the protection of the external borders remains with the member states. in these circumstances, i am very happy that this agency cannot carry out any major responsible implementation tasks at the moment, because there is no point in setting up such an agency quickly, quickly, quickly without reasonable cooperation. the rapporteur has our support for this criticism.
commission. mr president, firstly i would like to express my thanks for all the hard work that has been done by members of the committees concerned with the proposal for a regulation on official feed and food controls. i acknowledge in particular the admirable efforts made by mrs paulsen on this important initiative. the commission's proposal establishes rules on the organisation of official controls on feed, food and live animals to be respected by the member states and it defines the tasks of the commission's food and veterinary office. it takes into account the principles of a risk-based approach to a comprehensive and integrated food and feed chain from farm to fork, including controls within the community as well as controls on feed and food imported from third countries. it streamlines the primary responsibility for food and feed safety at the level of the business operators and it strengthens the role of the competent authorities through stricter enforcement mechanisms within the existing control systems. above all the proposal aims to improve the efficiency of controls undertaken by both the member states and the commission. it defines tougher enforcement measures. it also creates a framework to support developing countries in meeting important requirements and provides for a financial framework to organise activities that enhance food and feed safety. i underline in particular mrs paulsen's strenuous efforts to adopt the proposal at first reading. i share the very same aim and hope that it succeeds. cooperation between the three institutions on this proposal has been excellent and again much of this is due to mrs paulsen, the driving force in bringing the three institutions together. the council and the majority of the european parliament are now taking a convergent view on this text, which i am glad to accept in its entirety. (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to point out that i have just received the amendments in my language, numbered 229 , at the time of distribution. i ask for more time so that i can work through this - so that we can all work through this - and i would like to ask that the vote be postponed until tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am also speaking this morning on behalf of my colleague horst schnellhardt, who unfortunately cannot be present. the regulation on feed and food controls under discussion is part of the european union's efforts to improve food safety. the principle of controls throughout the whole system, from the farm to the counter or the plate, runs like a red thread through all the regulations dealing with this problem. the involvement of food business operators in food safety issues has been increased, responsibilities have been clearly defined and official controls have been scientifically based and clearly structured. the regulation on feed and food controls constitutes a framework legislation in this context. unfortunately, it must be noted that the treatment of this regulation in the european parliament does not correspond to the usual parliamentary procedures. the text to be voted on today was drawn up mainly by the european council and differs significantly from the european commission's proposal. it was not possible to discuss the text in detail. for years we have been trying here in the european parliament to extend our powers in the legislative process. the procedure for this regulation is clearly opposed to these approaches. we support the inclusion of animal welfare in this regulation. we are, however, critical of the way in which animal welfare checks are carried out. the possibility of delegating certain official control tasks to third parties is generously provided for. i believe, however, that official controls must be carried out by state institutions if independence is to be guaranteed. the same applies to the proposed financing procedure. the proposal does indeed provide for a uniform basis for calculating the fees for inspections in europe, but it does not remove the distortion of competition caused by the enormous differences in the level of fees, which has been criticised for years. on the contrary, this approach allows companies to pay different fees within the same district due to the different distances to the control authorities. official controls are, however, for health purposes and should therefore be of approximately the same level for all the undertakings concerned. the lack of reference to the national control plans and the lack of reference to the financing of ad hoc controls makes this procedure a financial risk for companies. in conclusion, i would like to emphasize that we support many of the approaches proposed here. but the unusual way in which the text of the law has been drawn up, with new drafts being published at short intervals and the amendments finally being available in the original language only this morning, has unfortunately made it impossible to carry out an intensive and comprehensive examination. it is possible that, in the rush, any shortcomings and critical points may not be detected. that is why we cannot be expected to give our unqualified assent.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. consumer protection is the subject that most interests people when we talk about europe. and yet we find that little has been done here, that the food scandals of recent years have not been eliminated in such a way - not even by this framework directive - that we have guarantees. unfortunately, food control is still a farce. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of animals are respected. we have a better control density, so we also need national control reports. however, a recent study in germany has shown that the main problem is that there are in fact too few controls. we need much more money for food control, so that controls are more frequent and not so infrequent, so that someone who breaks food regulations actually has to fear being punished. this is still the weak point in all the member states. we would have liked to see a convergence of laboratory methods and harmonization of the way in which controls are carried out in the member states. what we urgently need - and i hope that we will not lose hope, commissioner - and i would ask you to comment on this, is that we finally have a consumer information directive along the lines of the environmental information directive. because just as consumers, citizens, have a right to know what is happening in the environment, they must have a right to know what is happening in the food sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's all we ask. because what we need is food control... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs janelly fourtou, for her excellent work. i think it was not easy to reach agreement with the council and the commission on this difficult dossier, across the political groups. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we all know them, the fake cheap rolex watches, the lacoste shirts, the cheap imitation levi strauss jeans, the louis vuitton bags and much more. music and movies on cds and dvds are pirated. when you see all these things on the market, you almost think that product piracy is a chivalrous crime. but no, ladies and gentlemen, far from it! counterfeiting and piracy are not exactly the crimes of chivalry. they cause millions of dollars of damage in europe every year and threaten our economy and ultimately our jobs. the directive aims to establish uniform basic rules for the fight against product piracy. it is the right sign at the right time, on the eve of eu enlargement. what does the directive aim to achieve? of course, it wants to have a deterrent effect, a deterrent effect for product pirates and forgers. it provides a procedural framework for this. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the protection of the environment. what is the directive not allowed to do? it must not be a criminal offence, nor should it be a penalty for young people who occasionally download music from the internet. but the directive also provided for this. the criminal sanctions mechanisms originally envisaged in the draft have been removed - thanks also to pressure from our rapporteur - and it is stated that sanctions may only be used in a fair and appropriate manner. there are also ways to prevent young people from becoming criminals beyond this toolkit. the directive makes this clear. it's not gonna happen. one point that mrs fourtou also raised - and i agree with her - is that the directive must not, of course, create barriers to competition. it is not possible that the alleged infringement of proprietary rights will keep competitors out of the market. a recital has been inserted in the directive stating that this cannot be the purpose of the directive. the directive with the amendments on which we are voting tomorrow, and which i hope will be adopted, represents a good and fair compromise between the interests of all concerned, and i ask for support for the rapporteur's line.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following four oral questions to the commission on the proper implementation of the ec-israel association agreement: - o-0019/2004 - b5-0067/2004 by mr lagendijk, on behalf of the green group; - o-0021/2004 - b5-0068/2004 by mr morgantini, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation in the former yugoslavia; - o-0024/2004 - b5-0069/2004 by mr watson, on behalf of the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party; - o-0025/2004 - b5-0070/2004 by mr sakellariou, on behalf of the group of the european socialists, on the situation in the former yugoslavia;
mr president, i would like to ask for the sitting to be adjourned until the commission does us the honour of coming to the chamber.
- mr sakellariou, i would ask you not to make this request. mr. liikanen can't be responsible for his flight being delayed. he arrived at the airport on time, but his flight was delayed because of weather problems. so it could be another ten minutes before he gets here. however, we should aim to start the votes at 12 noon as planned and not at 12.15 or 12.20. you know very well that if we start later, the colleagues will be annoyed. i suggest that we now give the floor to the first speakers, as they have been informed, and that without the commissioner present. moreover, the commissioner also knows what they are going to talk about, and we can then continue when the commissioner arrives, and he will be able to answer immediately. that's my suggestion.
- we have a proposal, and it's an official proposal. do you agree with that, mr sakellariou? we have a speaker who supports the motion. i would like to know, however, if there is anyone who would object to our interrupting the meeting and would be in favour of continuing the debate, even if the commissioner does not arrive for five or ten minutes. does anyone wish to speak against the motion? that does not seem to be the case, and that is why we are now voting. those in favour of mr sakellariou's proposal to adjourn the sitting for 10 minutes until the commissioner arrives, raise your hands. who is against the motion? is there anyone who's not voting? (the sitting was suspended at 11.05 a.m. pending the commission's decision and resumed at 11.15 a.m.)
the commission has already done so. the problem of preferential access for exports from the israeli settlements in the west bank and gaza has been around for almost 30 years now and is the subject of regular oral and written questions and debates in the european parliament. the last time we recalled in a debate in november 2003 that a solution was needed to put an end to israel's repeated violations of international law. by its practice of certifying products from the occupied territories as 'made in israel', israel is not only violating the provisions on the territorial scope of the convention, namely article 83, the rules of origin and the provisions on cooperation and mutual assistance between customs authorities, but it is also continuously demonstrating its total disregard for international treaties and international law. however, the problem is more urgent today than ever before. the european union is planning to include israel in the pan-european cumulation preference system, in this case by amending the association agreement with israel accordingly. if this happens without correcting the illegal application of the rules of origin for products from the occupied territories, then this means that this illegal application would be accepted de facto. the european union is thus finally claiming the right to insist on the lawful application of the rules on preferential access for exports. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the occupied territories, and to provide information on the situation in the occupied territories, and to provide information on the situation in the occupied territories, and to provide information on the situation in the occupied territories. the commission has rightly informed the israeli authorities that measures must first be taken to eliminate this illegality. before any further discussion can take place on the amendment of the association agreement with israel, i would urge the commission to settle this matter before the end of its term of office. this is very important, commissioner, because it is to be accompanied by the amendment of the association agreement. the commission should consult parliament on this and thus prevent inaction and lack of political will from creating a situation where illegality is de facto made legal.
commission. mr president, under the terms of the eu-israel association agreement that agreement applies solely to the territory of the state of israel. therefore, products originating from israeli settlements in the west bank, the gaza strip, east jerusalem or the golan heights are not entitled to preferential tariff treatment upon entry into the eu, and any claims of preferential origin made by israel for such products cannot be accepted by the community's customs authorities. the commission has explained in detail, for example in replies to various oral questions in may and november 2003, its position on this issue and the actions it has taken. the eu is taking every opportunity to find a solution to the problem of product imports from the israeli settlements in question. exploratory talks aimed at finding possible solutions have recently been held between the commission and israel, but these discussions have yet to lead to a formal proposal by israel and the commission therefore has yet to take a position. however, the commission will not accept any solution that would mean preferential tariff treatment being granted for products originating from the israeli settlements and imported under israeli rules of preferential origin. as regards the involvement of the european parliament, i can confirm that the commission will act in full respect of the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the question we are discussing in connection with this agreement between the european community and israel is more than a technical one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, one can say that the occupation of the occupied territories since 1967 is illegal - that's the position of the united nations. resolution 242 says that israel must withdraw to the pre-1967 territories. now, the debate has been going on for over thirty years. in the meantime, settlements have been built, and there is now an oslo peace agreement that has brought both sides closer together. the question now is: what is best for the peace process? for example, would an immediate withdrawal from the occupied territories really serve peace? the european union and the united states are now aware that the road map calls for steps towards peace. a simple retreat tomorrow will not serve peace and will lead to new conflicts. every signal we send as the european union is crucial. we must remember that the agreement was signed in 1975, followed by oslo in 1993, and from that moment on the european union has supported the palestinian authority in its independence, has built it up with over 2 billion euros and is doing a very good job. the two partners agreed in oslo that both areas, the different zones, including the autonomous authority, are part of the trade with the european union. so, regardless of whether the settlement policy is right or wrong, the area where the settlements are located would be a partner of the european union - either through the agreement with the palestinian authority or through the agreement with the european community and israel. the first is that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. on the palestinian side, no one is being exploited by the agreement. on the contrary, if we were to suspend it overnight, the palestinians who work there would be the first to be affected again. it is not only settlers who produce products there, but many palestinian jobs depend on it. i think the commission's position is very balanced in making it clear to israel that this does not mean recognition of the territories, but that solutions must be found to give life to such an agreement and to avoid adding new fuel to the fire. it is good that israel is now returning its tax and customs revenues to the palestinians, and we should not send the wrong signal here as the european union by suspending the agreement, as some have suggested. it would not help the peace process.
- an example of italian grandezza, elegance and courtesy.
commission. mr president, i will make a few general remarks followed by replies to specific questions. the commission takes every opportunity to reach a satisfactory solution to ensure correct application of community law and to protect the community's own resources. that is why the commission works in close cooperation with the customs authorities of member states and maintains a constructive dialogue with the israeli authorities. this approach is generating results; duties are being recovered on goods from the settlements. somebody asked where the customs duties go. they go to the general revenue side of the community budget. israel is willing to cooperate to reach a satisfactory resolution. finally, i want to remind you that eu policy towards israel lies in partnership and cooperation. a specific question was raised about amendment of accumulation of origin. i want to reiterate the statement of the association council last november, recalling that in july 2003, at the third euro-mediterranean ministerial meeting, ministers endorsed a new protocol on rules of origin which allows the extension of the pan-european accumulation of origin to the mediterranean countries. the next stage will be amendment of origin protocols in the current bilateral association agreements in order to insert the changes necessary for the application of diagonal accumulation. i particularly want to emphasise that the eu notes israel's support for this project. the eu stresses the importance of solving the bilateral issue of rules of origin before the original protocol is amended. the eu's position is clear.
- thank you very much, lieutenant liikanen. this meeting is closed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are voting today on the paulsen report. the amendments to this report were only available in all languages this morning. i think it is a very important report and there are many amendments to it. i am not in a position to make a clear statement on this report today, and i therefore ask that the vote be postponed until tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have been discussing the package mrs paulsen has brought forward since last week. the council has given us no indication that it sees any room for manoeuvre. there is therefore no reason to postpone the vote today. we are well prepared for this and we want to vote today.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the council intends to establish a border guard agency. we have developed a counter-model as a parliament. we all know the council will overlook this. i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues on the committee on budgets to the fact that this agency is to be controlled by 27 administrative boards, in addition to the 27 civil servants who work there, and by an executive board of five members. this is a bureaucratic moloch that the commission and the council are planning here together! the budgetary committee should, before making any allocation to this agency, please engage in a further intensive discussion with the council. we cannot work like this here in europe, while advocating progress in this area. i ask the householders for support. (applause from the centre)
in writing. - i support the idea of helping victims of human trafficking. however, this is not the only aspect of this directive. it simply forces the victims to cooperate with the police under threat of deportation. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies. a clear distinction must be made between trafficking in human beings and the smuggling of immigrants. trade simply means helping immigrants to enter fort europe illegally - for profit or for charity. trade is based on a decision to immigrate, but often ends up in extremely exploitative capitalist labour conditions later on. illegal immigration is simply an understandable response to the eu's efforts to protect itself from the flows of immigration resulting from global poverty, war and capitalist exploitation. illegal immigration is usually the only way to enter the eu. if you really want to help victims of trafficking and exploitation, you should not hide behind the interests of european law enforcement and let the victims be content with short-term residence permits. free access to the eu should instead be part of the free world, so that people have free movement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i voted against the paulsen report. it is not so much the content, because i did not know it well, but rather a reaction to the procedure. the vote in committee produced a result which made implementation of the regulation impossible. this was the expression of very different opinions among the members of the committee on the environment. at the request of the rapporteur, the council has now tabled a new text, which is not at all usual before the vote in parliament. the rapporteur voted this text with four groups in this house and presented it to parliament in what i consider to be a very unworthy way, with new words being offered in english every day for the last week. it is only this morning that all the amendments, that is to say the amendments in the form of the council text, were presented to parliament. this is a completely new piece of legislation which has not been discussed in committee before. the house has had no opportunity at all to take a position on this text in committee, but the text was immediately presented to parliament and is valid after today's vote by a non-qualified majority. if we make this system the rule, then we will certainly have a very fast procedure. then we can get all the legislation done in four weeks. the council proposes a text, four people in this house nod their heads, and the whole house agrees with it because you cannot deal with what is actually in it. i think this is a very dangerous approach, because a parliament is characterized by debate on a subject and by a diversity of opinions. and not by the dictatorship of a few people in the political groups who then explain overnight in an hour of the political group what is in this text without anyone knowing exactly what is actually being voted on. i ask that you bear this in mind and allow it in the future only in exceptional cases. i can understand mrs paulsen's desire to complete her report because she is not coming back. she could have done that if she'd talked to me. but that didn't happen. i ask you to take note of this and to refuse such proceedings in the future.
- the minutes from yesterday's meeting have been distributed. if no one objects, i will consider it approved.
- it will be corrected! approval of the minutes of the previous sitting - composition of parliament: see minutes.
- the next item is the report (a5-0107/2004) by mr andreasen, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the right of guantánamo detainees to a fair trial (2003/2229 (ini)).
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0112/2004) by mr lagendijk, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of european partnerships in the framework of the stabilisation and association process (com (2003) 684 - c5-0574/2003 - 2003/0267 (cns)).
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i would first like to thank mr lagendijk very warmly for having prepared the european parliament's opinion on the commission proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of european partnerships in the framework of the stabilisation and association process. the proposed changes concern some of the key points in our relations with the western balkan countries. we have taken note of all the proposals and have carefully considered them. the commission and the council need the full support and commitment of the european parliament in their efforts to help these countries with their reforms and bring them closer to the european union. let me briefly touch on the background of the proposal: the proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of european partnerships dates back to the thessaloniki european council in june 2003, where the heads of state or government reaffirmed their determination to fully and effectively support the european perspective of the western balkan countries. the stabilisation and association process is now being strengthened and enriched by several elements which have been used during the ongoing enlargement process. the introduction of european partnerships is one of the most important proposals to this end. the commission has been asked to submit the first european partnerships to the council for approval together with the next annual reports on the stabilisation and association process by the end of this month. the european partnerships, like the accession partnerships for candidate countries, set out short and medium-term priorities that countries must meet in order to move closer to the european union. they shall be adapted to the specific needs of the countries and the state of preparation, as well as to the specific features of the stabilisation and association process. they will also take into account regional cooperation. as progress is made, european partnerships are increasingly moving towards adopting the acquis. progress is monitored by the commission and evaluated in annual reports. the texts of each european partnership will be sent to the european parliament and, as in the case of the accession partnerships, we will keep the european parliament informed of the progress made by the countries. the commission has taken note of the rapporteur's comments on financial assistance to the countries of the region. i would like to emphasize once again that the proposal has no financial implications. the priorities of the european partnership form the basis for the programming of the assistance provided under the cards programme. however, it should be stressed that the partnerships also receive priorities which do not require any financial resources, such as the adoption of legislation. i fully understand that the european parliament is concerned about the conditionality of community aid. respect for the principles of democracy and the rule of law, as well as for human and minority rights and fundamental freedoms, is a prerequisite for receiving community assistance. if these general conditions are not respected, the council may decide to suspend the financial assistance. the commission has decided to make this point explicit in the draft council decisions on the various partnership priorities. the priorities of the european partnerships are eu priorities, just as the priorities of the accession partnerships were for the candidate countries. of course, there will be informal consultation of the governments of the countries concerned on the european partnership. your approval will not come as a surprise. the commission agrees to add a text on consultation of the national governments to the regulation, in accordance with the european parliament's proposals. we are in regular contact with these countries through the mechanisms established for this purpose in the framework of the stabilisation and association process. we expect the countries to draw up plans setting out a timeframe for meeting the requirements for further integration with the european union. this work is designed to give them a stronger sense of responsibility and a better understanding of the process. implementing the priorities of the european partnerships requires commitment, political will and the provision of adequate resources. the partnerships will provide a solid basis for steering reform efforts in the western balkan countries towards closer relations with the european union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. our foreign policy, particularly in the balkans, is a necessary consequence of the great mistakes made in the early 1990s. we have not yet had a common policy for this region, but we do now. the stability pact is the right answer to the problems of the region. the negotiation of stabilisation and association agreements, combined with financial assistance such as the cards programme and the annual review of progress, serves the oft-stated objective of the future membership of these countries in the european union. so this is the right way. what is this new value of the european partnership? the stabilisation and association agreements establish a partnership and, if all the criteria are met, the application for accession follows. where's the room for a new catchphrase without a new financial background? this council proposal is empty, the commission knows that too, it has only the problem of having to rewrite it. we can say what we think. the example of croatia, mr commissioner, would be a good way for the commission and the council to show how serious they are about the much-vaunted partnership. croatia has been on the right track for years. there is good cooperation in all areas. cooperation with the hague is also positive. two generals are on their way to the hague. just because a general with a french passport is fugitive and untraceable, you can't always raise the bar. we should draw on what has been achieved so far. the positive assessment of croatia would send a signal throughout the region - and i know what i am talking about - for which these european partnerships are intended, and would give a boost to the fulfilment of european criteria. our common foreign policy in south-eastern europe is currently undergoing a severe test. the proposal for a european partnership without substantial added value compared to the stabilisation and association process and without additional financial aid does not, unfortunately, add to our credibility.
the commission, ladies and gentlemen, is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of presenting a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. because i may even be more able than he to respond to what you said. what's this about? the point is that the council in thessaloniki had considered whether we could actually draw some conclusions from the successful enlargement process to better guide the countries of the western balkans. the question was simple: are there lessons we've learned, are there tools that have been successful in this process that we can use with appropriate adaptations here? and indeed it is. the legal basis for the accession countries was the so-called europe agreements. the stabilisation and association agreement with the western balkan countries is a similar example. as an instrument for the implementation of these europe agreements, we have developed so-called accession partnerships. i'll tell you why that was good. and the appropriate instrument in the stabilisation and association process will now be european partnerships, because we have not been able to say 'accession partnerships' very well. the great thing about this tool is that it's very flexible, it's very accurate, it's verifiable, it's measurable, it's very accurate. the commission's intention is to prepare these partnerships exactly as we have prepared the accession partnerships. that means that we have to write down precisely what needs to be done in the first year, so as a short-term priority, in all areas - political governance, economic governance, adaptation of the acquis - and then medium-term priorities, for which we give ourselves two or three years, and then the long-term ones. the great advantage is that it can be checked at any time, it can be adapted at any time and the other instruments we have can then be adapted to the objectives of these partnerships, for example the technical assistance instrument which we want to use in the future, but also the means at our disposal and all the other instruments that exist. i can tell you from my experience with the enlargement process that this is a tool that helps, it is a tool that is very easy to use and that we have had good experience with during the enlargement process. so i ask you to give the instrument a chance. i would like to say to my friend swoboda, give the instrument a second chance, and after a year we can assess together whether it has been successful or not. but i am firmly convinced that it is an instrument which will help the countries of the western balkans, which will be easier for them to manage and which will make the direction in which the whole process should go clearer and more credible. so i really supported the instrument with all my heart.
- thank you very much, mr verheugen.
- i already had a suspicion that it was not a point of order. the way i know you, it doesn't matter. i'm really having one of my good days today. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the joint debate on three motions for resolutions, to be taken up at second reading, by the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport:- a5-0075/2004 on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council decision establishing a community action programme to promote bodies active at european level in the youth field (15327/1/2003 - c5-0021/2004 - 2003/0113 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr prets);- a5-0076/2004 on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council decision establishing a community action programme to promote bodies active at european level in the field of education and training and to support individual actions in the field of education and training (15334/1/2003 - c5-0022/2004 - 2003/01 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr pack);- a5-0077/2004 on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council decision establishing a community action programme to promote bodies active at european level in the field of culture and training and on the european union action programme to support individual actions in the field of education and training (15334/1/2003 - c5-0023/2004 - c5-0015 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr iivari)
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the debate today on the three necessary programmes we are seeking a common legal basis for the fields of culture, education and youth. there was a consultation procedure, and i would also like to thank the committee on budgets, which has given us very good support, and we now have some rather solid financial resources. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but, well, we can be satisfied with that. i can say that in my area 77 million for the action programme on educational establishments is not a small sum, but again: it could be even better. all three areas include institutions and associations which are, in the broadest sense, educational and cultural ambassadors for europe and promote and safeguard the common cultural heritage in europe. and all these organizations have been doing their work for years, with the help of our parliament too. without it, the soul of europe would be even more atrophied than it seems to be slowly becoming. i am particularly pleased that mrs iivari has been able to press her demands that subsidies for cultural establishments be maintained for at least a transitional period of two years. it is also a recognition of the work of these organizations. they can then prepare themselves for the fact that they will have to respond to calls for tenders in the future. i would like to emphasize once again that we as members of parliament are naturally closer to the citizens than those in the commission in brussels and therefore actually know better what the citizens need. i would like to say three things: firstly, i would like to take this opportunity to shed some light on the financial regulation. in no case should legal regulation impede our efforts to achieve greater transparency and efficiency in our political work on the ground. and i know that the commission suffers from this as much as parliament does. the council is not suffering because it has no interest in it at all. but the problem is that we have to represent this on the ground and we can't really represent it. i would also like to say that, for example, a network of european houses which has existed for 50 years is now broken thanks to this financial regulation and the commission. that is part of the debate. and i would also point out that the commission is not in a position to pay out the funds allocated by parliament to this network in 2003 or 2004. she refuses. the commission is to blame for this, not mrs reding, but others. but it's just something that needs to be said. the financial regulation we have now may have been necessary. only, she can't stay the way she is. we must recognize that a rigorous, if not fundamentalist, interpretation of this financial regulation creates a bureaucracy which increasingly distances citizens from the union. how can a citizen make a request when he has to hire a consultant? this can't be happening! all this has become so difficult. we must not allow ourselves to be held hostage by a budgetary imperialism! we should really try to change something and find an approach for the new legislature together with the committee on budgets. we are not a meeting of managers nor a board of directors seeking the highest possible bureaucratic efficiency. we are a political assembly whose main task is to respond to the wishes and needs of the european citizens. and that is why i think we have to make sure that the money is spent wisely. but we cannot put on a corset that no one can get out of. the second is to integrate education and culture more closely into the future budget, because we expect more from the soul of europe. the third point, madam commissioner, concerns the new generation of educational and cultural programmes which you are going to talk about today. i expect this new generation of programmes to include tangible instruments, i.e. concrete and community actions, with operational and financial resources that respond to the wishes of the citizen. the citizen must be at the centre of the action and he must not, i stress again, be used as an alibi for bureaucratic machinery.
mr president, should i now speak in english to further confuse the interpreters? (laughter)
commission - mr president, i had undertaken to draw up, during the first half of 2004, the future prospects for the european programmes for which i am responsible. it's a done deal. the commission has just given the go-ahead for the communication on these new programmes. the two communications adopted today concern all europeans, from their school learning to their life as citizens. this is important because europe is not just about economics, finance and trade. europe has a soul. europe, it is women and men in their cultural diversity who represent the real wealth of our union. the new programmes are intended to be listened to; they want to meet their aspirations and help them to create a genuine european citizenship. education and citizenship issues will be among the major challenges of the coming decade. in a union that is expected to have almost 500 million inhabitants in 2007, strengthening the sense of cultural and civic belonging to a whole of extraordinary diversity will necessarily require the mobilisation of all the tools and programmes at our disposal. the programmes covered by the communications adopted today will thus be part of a new overall approach: building bridges between cultures and individuals. mr president, these programmes will be our future, because they are focused on helping young people to achieve their european aspirations, both in the field of education and in the very broad field of citizenship. i know these programmes are meeting high expectations. they don't fall out of the sky. public consultations were held with thousands of professionals, with thousands of people involved in culture and education. we have had the agreement and the express request of the european parliament to move forward. i can tell you quite frankly that the timetable will be tight, because we will need 2006 to put these programmes in place to ensure a smooth transition between today's programmes and those of tomorrow. i should also like to say that the commission has taken the opportunity to propose a great deal of simplification. this simplification, of course, has its limits, because the legal bases, the clients - if i may put it that way - and the interventions are different. but we have succeeded in reducing the number of legal bases from 13 to 6 and the number of budget lines from 26 to 7. in addition, a revision of the financial regulation is planned for 2005 and i hope that, in the interests of greater transparency, greater efficiency and less administration, we will succeed, in particular, in simplifying the use of these programmes by citizens. all these programmes are european programmes which emphasize european added value and are therefore designed and conceived at european level. however, their implementation will be decentralised to national agencies closer to the citizens. these agencies will manage the implementation of the programmes, because they will know the citizens directly. i can tell you that there is a huge absorption capacity in this respect, because already today our budget execution is almost 100%. the requests we receive for projects relating to education and culture in the broad sense of the term are at least 50% higher than what we can offer. we really have a capacity to fill, because there's a very large public demand to be met. why did i wait until today to introduce these new programmes to you? simply because i had to wait for the financial prospects to move forward. i think that president prodi said it in this chamber: the commission believes that education and citizenship are very strong elements of future european policy. that is why we have been offered a budget in the financial perspective that is almost too large. however, even if this budget is four times what we have today, we are still very far from the mark, ladies and gentlemen, because our programmes still represent only 0.8% of the community budget today. so even if we increase the expenditure in question substantially, in the interests of citizens, in the interests of the men and women who make up europe, it will still represent only a very small percentage of the union's overall budget, not to mention that to have this small percentage, i tell you very clearly, it will still take a lot of political work, a lot of persuasion. i told you there were two programs. the first concerns education and is called 'the new generation of education and training programmes', with lifelong learning as the main theme, which should start at an early age, teaching children to learn, and continue until citizens leave the labour market. there will therefore be one single integrated programme, one which aims to ensure that languages, new technologies and, very importantly, the dissemination of the results of our work, which are considered as cross-cutting elements, cross all the strands of education. there will of course be different levels, as there are today: school, vocational training, higher education, adult education. at all these levels, we will introduce european added value: mobility, of course, because it is up to us to put the emphasis on mobility; partnerships between school classes, between organisations involved in education; transnational projects, where our teachers will develop new programmes at the cutting edge of progress. i'll give you some figures to illustrate what we're proposing. we want at least 10% of primary school pupils to benefit from mobility projects, whether virtual or real: we are currently at only 1.5% per year. we want to triple the number of erasmus students: the current figure is 120 000 students a year. we want the number of people in vocational training under the leonardo programme to increase from the present 45 000 per year to at least 150 000. we want real mobility in adult education: today we are - i am almost ashamed to say this - 2,000 people, and we would like to increase this to at least 50,000 people a year. and i am talking about mobility within the european union, because there is also, of course, mobility outside the european union. there are new neighbours who we will have to integrate into our way of doing europe. in this sense, mr president, we want to develop tempus, to make it tempus plus, which will no longer be solely focused on the university but which will provide aid according to the needs and capacities of each country, aid to all areas of education policy, thus also integrating school and vocational training. and then there are our jean monnet chairs. we now have them in 50 countries. we believe that development is also very important at this level. another aspect which will be of interest to the members who spoke of finance just a few minutes ago, mr president, is the integration of institutions such as bruges, florence and maastricht into our programmes, so that the legal basis is regulated once and for all. that is the case with the new major integrated education programme. then there will be a second major integrated programme, 'citizenship in action', which will bring together several existing programmes. these will continue as they are under the broad umbrella of citizenship. there will be three sections: youth, culture and media. the first is the youth programme. i know that there are some members of parliament among you who are particularly interested in this programme, which will be developed in several aspects. first aspect, first theme, youth for europe, which will bring together mobility, participation and exchange. the second major theme is the european voluntary service. by extending this service not only to individuals but also to groups, we would like to make youth volunteering a genuine, strong and visible policy which we intend to extend even beyond europe. we want to make a kind of youth for the world programme, to contribute to the development of mutual understanding in a spirit of openness to the world and active involvement of young people. i am thinking of the countries of enlarged europe, of the strengthening of cooperation with the candidate countries, with the balkan countries and the efta countries, and also with other third countries. another aspect that should not be overlooked is the socio-educational facilitators and support system, to train youth facilitators and support political cooperation. the second aspect is culture. in this connection, there will be three european added value objectives: mobility of professionals, transnational circulation of works, intercultural dialogue. these will be the three red threads that will run through all our cultural actions. there will no longer be the rigid sectoral breakdown of today, but rather the major emphases, as i have just described them, with the three types of action we already know today: multiannual cooperation with private operators and companies - this will be an opening up to the field of cultural enterprises; the annual, innovative projects, that does not change; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in this respect too, ladies and gentlemen, there will be a great deal of simplification. there will be only one budget line instead of the five we have today. the last part is audiovisual. at this level too, there will be three main objectives: preservation and promotion of cultural diversity and heritage, circulation of works inside and outside the union, and strengthening the competitiveness of the industrial sector. to understand this, i would say that we should stick to the current logic. we are already saying today that investment in film production is a national, regional, private investment, whatever you want, but not european. we are staying at this point, but we are going to give the member states the possibility of continuing this investment, of continuing public aid to cinema. we will do this upstream and downstream. upstream, by acquiring skills. our film schools need to be networked. we could, why not, imagine an erasmus for film schools. that would be a very good thing. to access the credits, it will be necessary to learn the actual work of creating a film, including business plans. we don't want to educate fantasy, we want to educate people who can make good films that, in addition, sell. downstream, there is the problem of distribution. you know that european films are not doing well despite our best efforts. there is always this problem that a national film is seen in the country of creation, but then the difficulties start when it comes to crossing the border. we must therefore make a concerted effort to change this situation, for reasons of the expansion of the film market, but also for reasons of cultural diversity which i do not need to explain to you. we're going to strengthen the selective and automatic support and distribution system and we're going to add support for dubbing and subtitling, support for multilingualism, so it doesn't cost too much to send movies around. i am thinking of new technologies, because even today 40% of the income of a film is generated by dvds. the dvds, however, automatically contain the potential for multilingualism. this is what we must work on with great commitment. then there is the strengthening of promotion, in europe of course, but also outside europe. i imagine, for example, packages of european films translated into the different languages, which would be offered at a festival in new york, in new delhi, accompanied by european stars to really put the package there and to have a great visibility. to prepare for the future, ladies and gentlemen, we are reserving a 'pilot project' space, a space of flexibility, because new technologies are called upon to undergo a great evolution. we must therefore be prepared to go along with these developments as needed. ladies and gentlemen, in a nutshell, this is what has been decided today. of course it is a canvas. it is a structure, but i think that this structure shows that the commission takes very seriously what europe holds most dear, what europe has as its great wealth: its citizens and their cultural diversity.
the commission has already done so. i have three questions: firstly, i would like to ask whether the extension of this tempus programme to tempus plus is the answer to the question in thessaloniki whether the educational programmes will be extended to the balkan countries. that's not enough for me. i would like to know the full extent of the socrates programme and not just tempus as a new one. secondly, does not the reduction in the budget line mean that we as parliament and the committee on culture have even less say in the matter of the recipients of the subsidies, or what does that look like? thirdly, will the titles be lost? are the names erasmus, socrates, comenius being lost or preserved somewhere? i can't tell from the text. i hope i get an answer to that. i can't wait for them, but i need someone to fill me in because i have another meeting. i'm sorry about that.
thank you very much, mr president. i would like to congratulate you, commissioner. they have set very ambitious educational programs. i hope that together with the commission we can make the budget available accordingly. i remember that the erasmus programme once had the objective of admitting 10% of the students to the programme. i hope we can do that. now, on to the second program. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i fear that when youth issues are bundled with all the other issues, it is the youth who will ultimately have to pay the bill. i think we have to ensure, and you have to make a concrete proposal with your proposal, that the youth programmes are properly funded, that informal education can maintain and extend the role it needs for the future to prepare an active citizenship. if all of this - youth, culture, audiovisual, media, film - comes together, i fear that the young will pay the price and the losers will be left behind. this can't happen.
- the next item is the report (a5-0047/2004) by mrs kronberger, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on arsenic, cadmium, mercury, nickel and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in ambient air (com (2003) 423 - c5-0331/2003 - 2003/0164 (cod)).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we all know that we are not moving in a vacuum, but are taking up negotiating positions. of course, the position of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection is also a negotiating position. we want, and this is right, a clearer definition of the destination, where the journey should go. in this respect, madam commissioner, although i appreciate your work very much, i am not entirely satisfied with the proposal because it is ultimately just a system which will lead to new measurements. incidentally, mrs jackson, you are always betting on the costs, the costs for the local authorities, the länder or the national states, which have to finance these measuring systems. nevertheless, we know about the dangers of heavy metals. so this approach of just saying we want to measure is not the right one and it is not the most cost-effective one. we must be clear about the direction we want to take. as i have said, the position of the committee on the environment is of course also a negotiating position. if we are negotiating with the council, we will of course also be moving. that is perfectly clear, and that is why i have advocated that we postpone the vote in order to have that time for negotiations. but the aim is to clarify the direction in which we want to move with air quality policy in this field. i am not one of those dogmatists who says that we must set out the values and the targets and that there is nothing to shake. but we need to make clear statements about where the journey is to go so that dangerous substances are not released into the environment, into the air. if you look at where these hazardous substances, such as cadmium, chromium or nickel, are mainly released into the air or into the environment, you will find that this is usually the case in areas where many people live. i have received letters from many local authorities asking for binding limits so that we can better cope with our situation. i don't think that's the answer. we must exploit the opportunities for reducing emissions in the context of technological progress. that is why we need targets, coupled with clear statements on how and when these can be achieved. i am very confident, mrs jackson, that in the negotiations with the council we can reach an agreement at first reading which clearly shows that we want to avoid heavy metals as much as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i can agree with what my predecessor said. i think we are dishonest if we are debating here just for the sake of debate, when we are still going to make measurements just to postpone the project. the question is, and this has become clear, that we need binding values. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr kronberger has emphasized once again that these are genotoxic carcinogens for which we have clear evidence that they are carcinogenic, that they affect the function of the kidneys, the central nervous system, the respiratory system and also the immune system. what we really need here is negotiating time, but not to put it off or put it on the back burner or, as many here unfortunately try to do, to leave it in the drawer. we are asked, even by us politicians in the elections, to have clear, binding targets for the measurements in the municipalities, in the countries, with which we achieve one thing: an improvement for the people.
commission. mr president, as i have already mentioned, i fully sympathise with the wish to ensure the full protection of public health as expressed in the amendments seeking to introduce binding limit values for arsenic, cadmium, nickel and polyaromatic hydrocarbons. unfortunately, i do not believe that the proposed amendments would have the desired effect. in reality, limit values would have to be accompanied either by exemptions for certain areas or by provisions allowing member states to apply for derogations in cases where the limit values cannot be met. the proposed amendments envisaged the latter solution, but either way we can be sure that derogations will be granted in precisely the areas where the problems occur. it is difficult to see how this would result in public health being better protected. similarly, there is little point in setting long-term objectives without having a clear idea of how such objectives can be met. for these reasons, the commission cannot, at this stage, accept any of the amendments that seek to introduce binding limit values. on the other hand, the commission could accept the reintroduction of the concept of upper and lower assessment thresholds foreseen in the framework directive, which is the subject of six of the amendments tabled. although this concept is usually linked with the limit values, the concept has some advantages, even in the absence of limit values, since it provides a flexible regime where the degree of monitoring requirements depends on the level of observed concentrations. as i said earlier, i am glad that the decision has been taken to postpone the vote to allow time to explore further alternative possibilities. i very much hope that, as a result, we will be able to move quickly towards an agreement on this important subject.
- thank you very much, commissioner wallström! you are aware that the vote was postponed until a later part-session. this meeting is closed.
- the next item is the joint debate on the reports of the committee on agriculture and rural development: - a5-0123/2004 by mr daul on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1782/2003 establishing common rules for direct support schemes under the common agricultural policy and establishing certain support schemes for farmers (com (2003) 698c5-0597/2003 - 2003/0278 (cns)) and - a5-0106/2004 by mr lavarra on the proposal for a council regulation on the common organisation of the market in olive oil and table olives and amending regulation (eec) no 827/68 (com (2003) 698 - c5-0598/2003 - 2003/0279 (cns)).
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. first of all, i would like to thank mr daul and mr lavarra, and the co-rapporteurs, mrs rodríguez ramos, mr berlato and mr mayer, for their reports, and also the members of comagri for their work and contributions. in july last year the council of agriculture ministers invited the commission to prepare a reform for other product sectors, based on the same principles as those on which the reform was based. the commission has subsequently drawn up proposals for the cotton, tobacco, olive oil and hops sectors, and these are being debated today. the objective has remained the same: to make these sectors more competitive and sustainable. we want to simplify administration and we want a system that is more compatible with the wto, and we also want to strengthen rural development. as regards the budgetary implications, the council decided that the commission should propose a budget-neutral solution. we have met all these objectives and conditions with our proposals. the central element in these reforms is decoupling, with the commission proposing partial decoupling in order to take account of environmental and social sensitivities. however, as in the previous reform, the precondition for the payment of the full amounts is that farmers meet the requirements of cross compliance and good agricultural practice. the commission has also proposed a transfer of funds to rural development. the fundamental restructuring of the sectors under discussion will also enable us to abolish for good certain obsolete elements of the existing market systems, such as the export refunds for olive oil. i am well aware of the socioeconomic and ecological significance of the cultures under discussion today. with two and a half million producers, the olive oil sector occupies a prominent position in mediterranean agriculture. cotton is a key crop in some regions of greece and spain. hops are a distinctive crop of predominantly regional importance, and although the tobacco sector is also important for agriculture and employment in many regions, it is in an economic crisis and is associated with an unhealthy lifestyle. i believe that the proposals now before us are, on the whole, in keeping with the community's concerns and i am therefore opposed to the departures from the original text proposed in the daul report. the proposal is the result of careful consideration for all four crops and is in line with the cap reform agreed last june. it gives farmers the freedom and flexibility to manage their land as they see fit and to exploit market opportunities, while taking into account environmental and social concerns. i would also like to point out that it is important that we take the necessary decisions, because if no decision is taken on this package, including tobacco, then we run the risk of not being able to pay any support to tobacco farmers next year, because the existing scheme expires at the end of this year. i believe that would be a course of action in no one's best interests. i can therefore only invite you to make the necessary decisions.
- thank you very much, mr fischler. i'm glad your comments about the association with an unhealthy lifestyle didn't apply to hops.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is a peculiarity that in the midst of mediterranean products there is talk of hops, which was probably placed elsewhere for this reason. it is a small sector, but it is certainly a very important product for those concerned, its importance being equal to that of hormones in human or animal processes or catalysts in chemical or physical processes. the importance of hops is best appreciated, mr president, when the consumer product made from hops, namely the beer you mentioned earlier, is drunk in moderation as an elixir of life. i mean, beer is -- as i said, in moderation, of course -- also a healthy food. we bavarians know this very well, of course, and you as a frank probably know it as well. like wine, beer is a special product and is also called hop tea by some people - and by our chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development, mr daul. i shall confine myself to hops, but, mr president, the introduction will give me a little more time. the common organisation of the market in hops has been in existence since 1971 and has proved to be a flexible, simple and yet very effective system over the years. the commission's report last year also made this point. the objectives and measures of the current system, namely quality-oriented hop production in line with market needs and a complete proof of origin, have been made possible in the first place by the existence of powerful producer groups. i would therefore like to limit myself to two points in this short space of time. firstly, the support for producer groups, also in the future. i therefore proposed in the amendment that an alternative solution be introduced here, either for the producer community, i.e. to allow this 25%, or for the producers themselves. the second point concerns the inclusion in the scheme of the cleared areas which have contributed to the clearing of the market, and i say this with particular emphasis.
the commission has already done so. the debate on decoupling is repeated with full force in these products from southern europe, and it gives the impression that the money should be taken from the farmers. i have already been very angry at the committee and i said that the disconnection is the precondition for farmers to keep their money, especially in the tobacco sector. but we must bear in mind that, given that the cost of production of cotton is covered by only one third of the price and that of tobacco by half, there is of course a great risk that if you are not forced to grow this to get the premium, another fruit will be grown. the special feature of the products from the north may be that more seasonal workers are involved in this production and processing, and may lose their jobs. so it is important to strengthen rural development and to rely on other products which will then make good development in the field of work possible. we must talk to industry so that it finally pays decent prices for products which sometimes have only a small share in the final product. the decoupling is the beginning of the struggle for prices in the producer sector - this applies to milk, this applies to tobacco and this applies to cotton. this is going to be a very exciting time. i therefore have to say that i support the commission's proposals in principle. i will therefore vote in accordance with that.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i have listened attentively to the contributions to the debate and i should like to thank you very much for the debate, which is very critical in some respects but very lively. i would like to make a few comments on the amendments in the light of the debate. firstly, the horizontal proposals and the disconnection. i can in principle agree with the flexibility proposal in motions for resolutions 17 and 57 that member state governments may set any disconnection rate above 60% for olive oil. amendments nos 1, 5, 10, 11, 45, 81 and 83 for the cotton sector call for an increase in the coupled aid to 80% and amendment no 44 makes the coupled aid subject to a harvesting obligation. i regret to say that i must reject all these requests because they are not consistent with the objective of decoupling a significant part of the coupled aid. amendments nos 26, 63, 67, 68 and 85 for tobacco require that 70% of the aid should be tied to tobacco production. this is in stark contrast to the debate which the heads of government had at the gothenburg summit. i therefore stand by the commission's original proposal to include all tobacco aid in the single payment scheme. in some of the motions, there is also a call for an optional postponement of the reform of olive oil, cotton and tobacco. this concerns motions 7, 8, 24, 43, 74, 76, 77, 79 and 80. the commission, however, wishes to reform these areas as quickly as possible and cannot therefore agree to these requests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of interesting suggestions which i think are worth considering, but i have difficulty in agreeing with them in the form proposed. for example, the optional regionalisation proposed in motion no 58 could be considered. however, it should not lead to excessive deviations from the average aid payments received by a region during the reference period. i also find the suggestions in motion 84 interesting: the aim is to extend the reference period for individual holdings in order to establish individual entitlements and eligibility for the premium for olive groves which were unproductive during the reference period. however, this must not lead to an increase in the total amount of support paid to olive growers in each member state. i can accept the amendment to increase the minimum area of olive trees eligible for full decoupling to 0.5 hectares, as measured by this gis system. however, in the interests of greater flexibility, we will also increase the number of trees that must be maintained on the parcels for which additional aid is paid. finally, i am also prepared to consider adapting annex iv of the council to ensure that olive groves are maintained in good agricultural and ecological condition. i am also in favour of improving quality and supporting young olive growers, but i have serious doubts about the proposals in motions for resolutions nos 16, 21, 22, 52, 56, 60 and 61. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. finally, i can accept amendment no 20 and parts of motions for resolutions nos 17, 54, 55, 58 and 84 in the daul report. i'm afraid i have to reject all the other requests in the daul report. now a few remarks on the lavarra report. you, mr lavarra, have also indicated that you are against the authorization of mixtures between olive oil and other vegetable oils. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that this would lead to less olive oil being sold in europe. i think it is important that these blended oils are labelled accordingly so that the consumer is not misled. the commission has also been asked to provide the necessary information to the council and parliament on the progress of the negotiations. some of the proposals in this report concern the automatic triggering of private storage. but that would be contrary to their purpose. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i agree with the idea that we should promote the quality of olive oil. however, i do not think it is appropriate to amend the rules which have only recently been adapted in the context of the agreed quality strategy. in addition, community aid for quality programmes may be financed under the rural development programmes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the common agricultural policy. now for the cotton. i agree that the present cotton aid scheme is a very special scheme and is partly based on accession acts. i can therefore accept amendment no 6, but i would point out that the commission proposal is sufficiently consistent with the objective of supporting cotton production in the community regions where cotton is important for the agricultural sector. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'cotton' in the definition of the term 'cotton' and to extend the scope of the term 'cotton' to include the use of the term 'cotton'. i cannot therefore agree to these motions. amendments nos 9, 37 and 70 are directed against the transfer of funds to rural development. this transfer is necessary in order to restructure the cotton-producing regions and to make the necessary adjustments. i cannot therefore agree to these motions. as far as the industry associations are concerned, i believe that excluding the processing industry and its special interests is certainly not the best way of developing a cotton quality policy. i am therefore prepared to give the producer organizations a sufficient role in shaping the cotton sector, even though i cannot accept the requests in question. i am sorry to say that i must reject all the other proposals in the daul report on cotton. the amendments proposed for the tobacco sector are essentially to maintain the status quo, while the commission is seeking a fundamental change. i would remind you that the extension of the premium scheme for the years 2002 to 2004 was only possible because the commission had committed itself to reforming the sector. if we do not reform the tobacco sector now, as i said, there will be no premiums after 2004. this is in a situation where the market price covers on average only 20% of the production costs in the tobacco sector. the proposal - and this was pointed out by mr graefe zu baringdorf - provides for a budget-neutral solution. the difference is not that farmers are no longer supported, but that farmers are no longer forced to grow tobacco. that's what this is about. i would also remind you that at the gothenburg summit on sustainable development it was said that only healthy products should be supported under community policies. amendment no 66 proposes the implementation of a buyback programme. i cannot agree to this request because the commission is convinced that there is no need for such a programme. producers who decide to leave the agricultural sector may transfer their payment entitlements in accordance with article 46 of the regulation on the payment of premiums. i cannot agree with amendment no 69, which calls for the early abolition of the contribution to the community tobacco fund. these contributions are intended to finance measures to raise public awareness of the harmful effects of tobacco consumption and should be maintained as long as production-related tobacco subsidies exist. the financing of the restructuring is absolutely necessary by transferring budgetary funds from 1a to 1b. it allows member states to implement appropriate measures within rural development programmes to facilitate the conversion of tobacco-producing regions. proposals 27 and 38 propose a special transfer of funds released by modulation to member states where tobacco production accounts for at least 20% of gross marketable production. the commission is convinced that such special measures are not necessary, as funds released by modulation will be available to all sectors as additional support for rural development measures. the commission can support motion 62 but must reject all other motions on tobacco. and now for the final hop: as far as hops are concerned, the daul report is in line with the main principles of the proposal. amendment no 42, first part, motion no 82 and motion no 86 suggest that producers who have left the hop sector and received compensation for rye during the reference period should continue to be entitled to the single payment. however, during the period in which they received these compensatory payments, these farmers were able to grow crops other than arable crops eligible for aid. the compensation for the grubbing-up of these areas is therefore not taken into account in the calculation of the reference amount. the commission cannot therefore accept these requests. amendments nos 35, 36 and 42 in the second part concern support for the activities of producer groups. the commission is of the opinion that it is possible to form producer groups in the future and that there must be a way of appropriately allocating funds to these groups.
- thank you very much, commissioner fischler. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the agenda for the next meeting: see minutes. (the sitting was closed at 11.13 p.m.)
council. – mr president, i am very happy to address you today in relation to the preparations for the spring european council and the igc follow-up. as you will be aware from our detailed discussions on the lisbon strategy at the last part-session, the irish presidency is determined that the primary focus of the spring european council should be, as set out at lisbon and gothenburg, the follow-up to the lisbon strategy with a strong emphasis on implementation and the need to target specific areas for concerted action by the union. the future financial perspectives and current issues on the international agenda will also be addressed. the presidency has consistently reiterated the need for the spring european council to give a strong signal as to the continued importance of the lisbon strategy in providing a framework for simultaneous progress on economic, social and environmental renewal throughout the union. when i addressed parliament last month, i outlined the issues on which we intend to focus at the spring european council on 25 and 26 march. i am pleased that member states share our conviction that the agenda for the european council should remain focused, and have given broad support for our approach of concentrating on a limited number of key issues. similarly, member states have also agreed that the overreaching priorities for the council should be those of sustainable growth and employment as identified by us in the first draft of the annotated agenda issued on 17 february. the commission communication on the future financial perspectives – 'building our common future' – was launched here on 10 february by commission president prodi. the presidency’s approach, which has been agreed by member states, is that while no discussion is expected, the spring european council should agree conclusions on the procedure to be followed in considering the dossier over the coming months. the taoiseach will present the irish presidency’s report on where matters stand in the intergovernmental conference. it is intended that this will be discussed over dinner on the first evening by the heads of state and government. it is the presidency’s intention to invite representatives of observers at the igc, including the president of the european parliament, to be present. on the basis of our report and following discussions at the dinner, it will then be for the european council to decide how best to proceed, and in particular whether the time is ripe for the igc to be re-convened. i hope you will understand that it is not appropriate for me at this time to go into any detail on what that report will contain. we have still not definitively concluded our analysis of the situation. consultations and contacts are ongoing. the taoiseach owes it to his colleagues to present matters to them in a very direct manner. however, i would offer the following observations. in keeping with our mandate from brussels in december, the irish presidency has consulted widely among participants in the igc, including the european parliament. the taoiseach has spoken with all other members of the european council. intensive and detailed discussions have also taken place at ministerial and official levels. partners have agreed with us in good faith and in a positive and constructive way. as a result, we have a deeper appreciation of the concerns of all involved. we also have a greater understanding of where scope for compromise and possible agreements might lie. we have had very useful and detailed discussions with parliament’s representatives mr hänsch and mr brok. they have made clear to us parliament’s general approach to the igc, and its priorities in the negotiations. we very much appreciated the constructive and frank way they have dealt with us. more generally, parliament’s strong support for our efforts is greatly appreciated. in particular, you have tried to keep us and partners focused on the big picture, on the immense prize which adoption of the constitution would represent, and on the very significant and considerable dangers for our union which would flow from a continued stalemate. in our consultations, we have confirmed that there is a range of outstanding institutional and non-institutional issues, of varying complexity and sensitivity, which have been raised with us. most of these were identified by the italian presidency in the paper published ahead of the meeting of the european council in december, though others are also on the table. we have gone through all of these questions carefully and in some significant detail. while there has been particular public focus on the institutional side of things, i can assure parliament that our discussions with partners are not limited to those aspects of the draft constitutional treaty. our broad sense is that, while there are a reasonable number of outstanding issues, on the great majority it will be relatively easy to find consensus in the context of a process leading to an overall conclusion. moreover, we have ascertained that there are many other issues, including some of considerable importance, on which there is effectively already agreement – although formally nothing is agreed until everything is agreed. of course, the great bulk of the convention’s text has not been called into question at any stage of the igc, and i am glad to say that very much remains the case. i cannot say today whether it will be possible for the igc to conclude its work during the irish presidency. i can say this, however. if it were a matter for the irish presidency we would resolve it. we have made it clear to this parliament and we have made it clear in many statements that we are anxious and ambitious to achieve a resolution. it is also, however, very important to put it on the record that 25 member states and 25 governments have a responsibility in this matter: it does not come down to the presidency. whether it is decided to convene a further meeting of the igc in the near future is very much a matter of judgment for the european council. however, i can say, and i have said it several times, that if political will is present, it will be easy to find a solution to the outstanding issues. the key to early agreement is political willingness to agree. it is now over two years since the european convention began its work. the issues have been debated intensively and extensively. at this point, i do not believe that outstanding differences will become easier to resolve over time. i have said this on several occasions in the last week or two: the difficulties that exist today will be more difficult in the future. in the second half of this year it will not be any easier to resolve the issues. there is a whole series of other issues that will make it more complex. parliament will change, the commission will change, the political players will change and it would be unwise to take the view that we have time on our side. there are important issues to be considered in the second half of this year. it is my strong belief that these are all better considered independently of each other and that is another reason why we should go for the earliest possible solution, because if the issues come together it will make resolution more difficult. i continue to believe that the new constitution is profoundly in the interests of the union and its citizens. it is a quantum leap forward in terms of clarity and accessibility. it will provide the union with a solid foundation for its future growth and its future development. it will enable the union to respond more effectively to the concerns of citizens and to play a more dynamic role in the wider world. in a sense it is a prize well worth striving for. if there is a will to compromise – and let there be no doubt that without some compromise on all sides there will be no agreement – then i believe it should be possible to move things forward rapidly. as we have said before, if there is a serious possibility of progress, the irish presidency will immediately move to seize that possibility. (applause)
commission. – mr president, i regret the unavoidable absence of president prodi but, as you know, he has official obligations elsewhere. the commission welcomes the opportunity provided by the discussion this morning to draw attention to the importance of a satisfactory agreement on the proposed constitution. obviously, the analysis made at laeken still holds good and the enlarged union still needs reform in order to ensure that it can work in the public interest with higher standards of efficiency and with greater democracy and transparency. this is plainly unfinished business, and, equally plainly, it must be tackled with determination. in the unique association of democracies that makes up the european union careful deliberation is always necessary but no constructive interests are really served by prolonged stalemate. that is why the commission fully supports the approach taken by the irish presidency. minister roche's report is clear. the commission is convinced that the presidency has done, and is still doing, exactly what is necessary. after the breakdown of the brussels european council, the only realistic course was to proceed in the way followed by the irish presidency and to sound out the prospect for progress through bilateral consultations. it is an arduous course and no doubt mr roche and his colleagues have the air miles to prove it. however, our irish colleagues have a true talent for promoting understanding – except, of course, where english rugby is concerned – and we hope that their diligent efforts will bear fruit and that the presidency report to the european council will be able to conclude that all delegations are disposed to sign the constitutional treaty before the european elections. such progress will require some willingness to revise original negotiating positions, but the commission continues to believe that such developments are feasible and that the conclusion of a constitutional treaty can be achieved under the present presidency. as mr roche said on this issue – it is not always true in politics but it is in this case – time will not change the basics or make a resolution easier. one of the factors which propels such a view is recognition of the reality that, if the igc was not satisfactorily concluded this year, the prospects for establishing a constitution for the union will begin to appear remote. the momentum provided by the convention will then manifestly continue to diminish and, in the very nature of politics, debate about the treaty will become entangled with other controversies, such as those which naturally and inevitably will, for instance, be associated with the financial perspectives. no democrat could, or would, fear the prospect of multiple debates, but clarity and rigour in all discussions would obviously be served best by ensuring that each salient issue is tackled on its own terms and merits. meanwhile, the rational desire to conclude the igc successfully and with reasonable dispatch should not deflect us from the course which parliament and the commission have followed on the content of the constitution. i am sure that the commission reflects the majority opinion in this house by emphasising that the text drafted by the convention should not be diluted. we have all heard the maxim 'better no constitution than a bad constitution' and no sensible person could possibly disagree with that. but those can hardly be considered to be the sole true alternatives. the risk is surely not a bad constitution, since it is highly unlikely that the igc would agree to something that was noxious or ineffectual. the real risk is rather that the convention draft becomes amended to the point where, cumulatively, almost accidentally, the ambition and the attractiveness of the constitution dwindles and the singular opportunity of clarifying and developing the union provided by drafting a constitution slips away. the representatives and, more importantly, the people of the european union would then inherit problems rather than answers. that is why the basis for the constitution should continue to be the text presented by the convention. obviously, on some points, improvement is possible. for instance, debates in the months before the brussels european council showed that the fact that a proposed change attracts widespread support from member states does not necessarily make it a move in the wrong direction, as some seemed to contend at the time. meanwhile, in the commission – and, i emphasise, explicitly in the interests of the union – we were glad to note that most, if not all, delegations realised that making a distinction between voting and non-voting commissioners would simply not work. we trust, therefore, that no variations on that impractical and divisive theme will reappear. naturally, parliament, the council, the commission and everyone else has to continue to exercise care. for instance, the italian presidency has helpfully made it clear that some of the texts circulating in the final hours of the december european council – which some regarded as presidency compromises – have no formal status. most of those suggestions would, as it happens, have been unacceptable to either the commission or parliament or, indeed, both. we are certain that the irish presidency will, characteristically, show its own constructive sensitivity, regardless of the hour of the day or of the night. the house is fully aware of the controversial issues that remain. the commission has made it clear on many occasions that it holds the view that the compromise reached in the convention on the 'double-hatted' status of an eu foreign affairs representative should not be changed, that the enhanced budget powers of the european parliament should not be altered, that the scope of qualified majority voting should not be reduced. the commission has also made clear its opinion, particularly when we are only weeks away from a european union with 25 member states, the practical case for an extension of qualified majority voting is stronger than ever. on that particular point, the house will know that the commission considers that the double-majority proposal of the convention is the best approach for the definition of qmv. that also reflects practicality and proportionality. it is clear that full and necessary articulation of arguments will ensure that decision-making in the enlarged union is never easy. to make effective agreement on necessary decisions even harder by fixing a qmv threshold which is so high that the focus is on forming blocking minorities rather than on reaching consensus would, however, be a formula for stasis and the union as a whole could not benefit from that. the commission's view continues to be that a double majority of 50% of the member states representing 50% of the population would be both clear and balanced. however, the commission accepted the convention's compromise of 50% of member states and 60% of population, although, i have to say, the commission still believes that a 50% and 55% formulation would fit the purpose of effective decision-making still better. whatever compromise is eventually reached, it is obvious that no one should forget that the draft constitution will need approval and ratification through the democratic processes of 25 member states. an arrangement that increases complexity and intensifies the difficulties of making the enlarged european union work well would hardly be likely to attract understanding or support in either parliaments or plebiscites. we are certain that the presidency, the majority in this parliament, and a wide spectrum of governmental and public opinion understands that. we wish the irish presidency well in its sustained efforts in the interests of a modern union and its citizens. (applause)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by expressing to the president of the council, on behalf of our group, our warm appreciation and respect for the way in which the irish presidency is conducting its work. it is conducted with goodwill and purpose and is equally discreet and effective. i think this is an example of how a country that is not one of the largest countries in terms of population can still be a great political force. mr president-in-office, i very much welcome the fact that you have said that if it were up to you, you would want to have an outcome of the intergovernmental conference in your irish presidency. we also feel that you are doing the best you can as president of the council. we very much welcome - and i speak for the european people's party - that there is now movement, also on the questions that are still open, in particular the question of the double majority. i too have always called on the german government to be flexible and to move. i would like to express my appreciation for this, since it is happening now. but to this effort of the german government must be added the effort of the other governments. that is why we should not blame anyone - who did what wrong, who did not move - but everyone must move, and we call on the governments to do so. ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot at stake. mr president-in-office, you spoke of dangers - that is the translation of my words - and i am not saying that you are not aware of the dangers. and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that we remember once again what we are achieving with this constitution. it is in the preamble, in the charter, that our european values are described. it describes the functions and tasks of the european parliament. it is a huge step for the european parliament, for democracy and for parliamentarism in europe. we shall have more transparency in the council of ministers in the legislative process, although not - as we would like - as the legislative council. the commission shall be appointed on the proposal of the convention and the president of the commission on the proposal of the heads of state or government, taking into account the outcome of the european elections. this is a huge step forward, because the point is that the people of the european union, by voting in the european elections, are also influencing the position in the commission. we are calling for this to be applied to this year's european elections, even though this is not yet the law. this means that the proposal submitted by the heads of state or government to the president of the commission already takes account of the outcome of the european elections. this is in line with democratic principles, this is fair and this is not a party political opinion, but a matter of principle. mr president-in-office, we would encourage you, when the proposal for the president of the commission is made under your presidency, to take account of the outcome of the european elections. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to express my gratitude to the two members of this parliament, klaus hänsch and elmar brok, for the great work they have done, and of course to mr giscard d'estaing as president and to all those who have contributed from our parliament, from the national parliaments and from the governments. we can't let this all go to waste. i remember very well how the president of the french republic, as president of the european council, explained nice in december 2000. and then in his reply - after we had criticized the nice result - he declared his readiness. this was the beginning of the convention, when the french president said: 'yes, we must think about introducing a new method of reform'. and then it came to the laeken decision and the work that we all know. this must not be lost. we will be a community of 455 million people from 1 may. we need a clear, solid legal basis for the european union of the future to hold all this together. at its core, the constitution is about how we can agree on methods, how we can peacefully manage differences of interest and conflicts. so at its core, the constitution is about a peaceful future for our continent, and this project must not fail. i wish you every success in this, mr president-in-office, and i hope that you will reap the benefits of your presidency. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! i believe that the president-in-office of the council has given a key point of reference, by correctly pointing out in his speech that it will be very difficult to really conclude a constitution if it is delayed until a later date, because the collective consciousness has been lost, because the actors have changed, because the passage of time makes it virtually impossible to revive a project after one and a half years. i believe that this is why the irish presidency's approach so far has been the right one, to have a number of bilateral talks to see if there is a possibility of agreement. with klaus hänsch, andrew duff and others, we have been travelling a lot in other capitals in the last few months and we have got the impression that everyone wants to have a degree. there is only one point on which there is no agreement. i think that this is becoming more and more common, that there are fewer and fewer people who are opposed to an agreement, and that for this reason, and because it will become much more difficult afterwards, to encourage the irish presidency to put forward the proposal at the summit on 25 march to meet before 1 may to reach a decision. what we could lose if we do not do this is that we lose the link between enlargement and greater efficiency of the european union, that we lose, with this constitution, a value orientation of the european union and more power for the citizens who, through the european elections, are to elect the president of the commission and, through the charter of fundamental rights, are to be granted rights and protections. i think we should not question this by the myth that the question of whether it's big or small is of crucial importance. i have been a member of this house for 24 years and i have never seen a vote, large or small, along the lines in the council or in the european parliament. it goes along the line of interests: whether to produce wine, not to produce wine, etc. it is, and therefore this myth alone should not prevent us from coming to a decision. the european union must not be allowed to hide behind its responsibilities. (applause from the centre) i would therefore like to say one thing: we have the only real chance of bringing the whole of europe together on the level of the equality of nations and states with this constitution. if that fails, it will again decay in groups of different velocities and all of the limits, not instantly, but fluidly. the 25 heads of state or government have this responsibility, and they must take it on themselves. let me just make one point of comparison: in my country, in 1848, there was the assembly in st. paul's church, a constitution that was democratic and that made a democratic germany possible. the prussian king has refused to accept this constitution and to take over the crown of a democratic germany. we are all very well aware of the consequences for the history of my country and europe. the monarchs of the present are the heads of state and government. i hope they don't make the same historic mistake that the prussian king made in 1848. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i can relate directly to what mr tajani said at the end. mr president-in-office of the council, yesterday i handed you over 10,000 signatures from my constituency to have a reference to europe's christian heritage included in the preamble to the treaty. i tell you frankly, a building built without a firm foundation will be doomed to collapse in the end. we must not build europe on weak foundations but on the common foundation which embraces the heritage of this continent. the people of my constituency have great confidence in the irish presidency of the council that you will make proposals to include such a reference in the preamble. i would also like to say a few words about the competitiveness of the european union, because this is the subject that will be dealt with in particular at the spring summit. i would like to appeal to the commission in particular. it is not enough to hold a summit on competitiveness once a year, and that is the end of the matter. and throughout the year we are bombarded with proposals that weaken europe's competitiveness. i shall call this the law on chemicals, the policy on chemicals. this is a proposal to de-industrialise the european union! the commission must be aware of this. withdraw this proposal and you will be contributing to europe's competitiveness! the same applies to the restrictions on advertising. i could name many other guidelines. my proposal is that the commission should agree to withdraw the ten worst proposals for directives. this would significantly improve europe's competitiveness. the second point i would like to make is that the member states must also implement the commitments they have made. i come from a country that has been told for years what to do. and for years, nothing has been done to relieve the burden on labour markets and to ensure that competitiveness is improved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will then achieve growth and employment throughout europe.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think that we must now, a few weeks before 1 may, the fixed date for the enlargement of the european union, say that all ten applicant countries have made an enormous effort over the last decade to prepare for this moment. they have made much more effort - with great consequences for the population - than we have done in the european union in preparation for enlargement, as the previous debate has shown. i hope that the cyprus problem will also be resolved in such a way that we can welcome a united cyprus on 1 may. at the same time, i must say that this is the last report of this kind, and that the country rapporteurs of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy have done a very responsible and dedicated job in these years. and as chairman of the committee, i would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to them. on 1 may, the acquis as laid down in the enlargement treaty will apply, including the transitional provisions attached to it. this means that there must be no more discrimination in either direction, that we will continue to attach great importance to compliance with this acquis and that the commission, as guardian of the treaties, will certainly see this in a similar way. but there are still weaknesses here. we are not saying this as a criticism, but to help, to raise awareness, to achieve political enforcement so that these weaknesses are eliminated. these weaknesses are understandable. because we have to see that these countries had to make a complete change in their political, social, economic and social systems, that they had to move from a communist centralism to more regionalization. it is clear that all this will not work in one day. the same is true of the judicial system. but this has consequences. if the administration is not functioning, it will not be able to put forward the concepts needed at regional level to draw on eu structural funds. similarly, government agencies are involved in agriculture and in some other areas. so it is in the interest of these countries to achieve better results here. the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past, and i am sure that the commission will continue to make proposals in the future. we must also see that, for example, a dysfunctional judiciary is associated with legal uncertainty in some regional areas. legal uncertainty is always a barrier to investment. here too, legal certainty is needed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is also seen as a matter of course, and both of these things taken together have something to do with fighting corruption. as we have heard today, there is corruption in our country, in germany, and even in football. corruption is everywhere. but we must be careful that this cancer, which is everywhere present in varying degrees, does not become entrenched in the european union and endanger our overall development prospects. the fact that the minority question is not yet regulated in the same way everywhere must also be discussed. the situation of the roma in some countries, for example, is one of the areas where we hope to see improvements in practice. but at the same time we must also see that the baltic states have made enormous efforts in this historical context towards their minorities and that the situation cannot be a reason for not signing or ratifying the border treaties with the baltic states. we therefore call on russia to make rapid progress on this issue, also in order to achieve clarity. we want the cooperation and partnership treaty to be applied to the whole of the new european union. the fact that no renegotiation is taking place is a matter for everyone. we cannot claim compensation for the enlargement of the european union, but we must build new bridges on the new frontiers of the european union, just as we must quickly introduce the schengen standards there, to ensure internal security, to allow the internal frontiers to open up. this combination will certainly be one of the most difficult problems to solve individually. mr president, i would like to say at this point, and i think i can say this for the whole house, that we are looking forward to 1 may and we are looking forward to our new partners. (applause from the centre)
council. – mr president, at the outset i would like to thank mr brok for his very frank and interesting report on the accession states. i would also like to thank mr van orden for his insightful report on bulgaria, and baroness nicholson for her thorough and honest report on romania. it is a great honour for me to participate, on behalf of the council, in your debate on enlargement today. for many years, i lectured students in university college, dublin, on the european union and sought to impress upon them how remarkable our union is. we are now on the eve of another remarkable breakthrough. enlargement represents one of the most exciting and positive developments, not just in the history of the european union but in european history as a whole. the ideal of a united, peaceful europe is behind every effort at european integration over the past fifty years and this enlargement plays a significant part in making that peace a reality. in less than two months, the union will welcome ten new member states. for many years enlargement has been a mere aspiration; soon it will be realised. the european union is rectifying a past wrong: the artificial division of europe, which lasted for far too long after two appallingly disastrous world wars. as presidency, ireland will be privileged to welcome the new member states on behalf of the union on 1 may. we look forward greatly to this day, which will be celebrated around europe and which we in ireland will celebrate throughout the country as a special 'day of welcomes' for our new partners. the new member states have come through a long and difficult process to get where they are today. it is an exciting moment for them and for us. they have spent many years and made great efforts preparing for membership; the reform of their economic and political systems has been – to put it mildly – highly impressive. the countries of central and eastern europe have very rapidly established stable democracies and functioning market systems. the deep reforms carried out were monitored and reviewed closely by the commission in its regular reports throughout the period of negotiations and most recently in its monitoring reports. the commission’s comprehensive monitoring reports, published last november, illustrate clearly the huge amount of work done in the new member states. i wish to congratulate the commission. in particular i want to congratulate commissioner verheugen for his excellent work, extraordinary dedication and excellent management of the whole process. (applause) more importantly, i want to compliment the new member states for their efforts. however, while recognising that there have been many achievements to date, it is important not to become complacent. we encourage newly acceding states to continue their efforts for the final two months until accession: now is not a time to rest on their oars. we ask them to concentrate particularly on the areas identified by the commission as requiring urgent attention and on the effective implementation and enforcement of measures already adopted. it goes without saying that the more work done now, the quicker the newly acceding member states can benefit fully from membership. we are confident that any difficulties can and will be overcome. the treaty of accession contains a number of safeguard clauses designed to protect the union from unforeseen disturbances arising as a result of accession. in addition, other measures are available to the commission to protect the internal market, if necessary. the smooth and effective integration of the new member states is one of the highest priorities of the irish presidency. the hard work of the new member states has been recognised, not only by the commission in its regular and monitoring reports, but also by the excellent report drawn up by mr brok. the enlargement has been described as the best-prepared enlargement ever and i think that is a fair description of what has been done. already the newly acceding member states are sitting around the council table and in parliament. they participated fully, actively and very constructively in the work of the european convention and in the ensuing intergovernmental conference on the constitutional treaty. the new member states are already making valuable input to all aspects of the union’s business and from 1 may, they will have full voting rights as well and will contribute fully to the formation of the union’s policies. i believe they will make a remarkable impact on the way we do our business. support among the new member states for accession was demonstrated by the referenda which were held in nine of the ten countries throughout 2003. in addition, the process of ratification of the treaty of accession has seen the parliaments of many current member states express strong support for enlargement. it is important to underline that enlargement is good not only for the newly acceding member states but – as mr brok reminded us – it is also good for the present member states. the union as a whole stands to benefit. of course, the process of enlargement does not end on 1 may. as we have been reminded, bulgaria and romania are both advanced in negotiations. i listened carefully to mr van orden's report on bulgaria, having met with meglena kuneva last week to discuss the position. i was also very interested to hear baroness nicholson's very frank and honest report. last december, the european council set out a very clear timeframe for the conclusion of negotiations in 2004 with both countries, subject of course to their individual state of readiness, with a view to their accession in january 2007. one of the key issues remaining to be agreed among member states is the financial framework for accession of the two states. since the commission published its draft financial package in february, intensive negotiations have been underway to secure agreement among member states, which the presidency is endeavouring to obtain by the march session of the general affairs and external relations council. reaching agreement on the financial package will permit the union to carry forward the negotiations in the remaining finance-related chapters with both countries. the irish presidency is striving to advance progress in accession negotiations to the greatest degree possible. the presidency will ensure that negotiations with both countries are governed by the same principles that guided negotiations with the ten new member states, notably that of their own individual merits. it is worth recalling that bulgaria and romania are part of an irreversible inclusive enlargement process. the pace of negotiations will continue to be determined by progress on the ground and we urge bulgaria and romania to ensure full implementation of commitments undertaken to date. the union will continue to monitor very closely the performance of both countries and has noted carefully the views of parliament, as expressed in particular in the resolutions under consideration today. in conclusion, this enlargement is one of the most remarkable achievements of the union to date. on behalf of the presidency of the council, i wish to thank parliament, and you the members of parliament, for the very positive and constructive approach taken since the very beginning of the process. we believe that the union and its citizens stand to benefit greatly from this exciting endeavour. this is a remarkable moment, a defining moment in the history of europe, and one in which we can all take considerable satisfaction. (applause)
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. this is likely to be the last major debate in this parliament on a really big and historic project, and i would like to take this opportunity to thank parliament very warmly for its cooperation on this project, in particular the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy and its chairman, elmar brok, and the rapporteurs. it has shown what we can achieve - even in the face of such a large and difficult task - when the institutions of the european union have a clear, common objective and are determined to work together to achieve it. i cannot conceal my great satisfaction at the fact that on 1 may we will have ten new members and that we have managed this difficult process, but i cannot conceal the fact that my satisfaction is mixed with a certain concern. i cannot ignore the fact that it is only now that a very broad discussion on this enlargement has begun in the member states - much too late in my view. i have been saying for many years that this debate must be held in the member states, that people must be educated and that they must be involved in this process. it is only now, with the event imminent, that it has become a hot topic in the european media and therefore a hot topic in the european public. it will not surprise anyone in this house - i am not surprised either - that all the fears, concerns and feelings of uncertainty that we have known for years and that we have tried to address through education and information are now reappearing. let me be clear: the political elites in the member states should have done more to make this great historic task understandable to public opinion in the member states. i say this with a certain bitterness, because we have already stressed the need for this. it's not too late. the message to be conveyed to the people is quite clear: yes, this enlargement will create problems. this enlargement will force us to make adjustments. many things will be completely different from what we have been used to. but there was no sensible alternative! we had to do it! we had to live up to our historic responsibility to shape the great political transformation in europe in a way that would lead to more peace and security and prosperity for the people. the message must be that enlargement is not creating problems, but is the only way to solve the problems created by the great changes in europe 14 or 15 years ago. let me say this again at the beginning of this debate, because i am really convinced that the democratic quality of this process depends on the citizens of europe understanding it and sharing its objectives. ladies and gentlemen, we have informed you of the results of our monitoring of the preparations of the 10 countries which will join on 1 may. i shared the results of this monitoring with the heads of government of the 10 countries last november, and we have been working intensively with the countries to solve these problems ever since. there have now been further consultations with all the 10 countries in which we have taken stock. it has been found that some remarkable progress has been made in all areas. i now receive daily information on further progress, so that i can see a very positive trend overall in the completion of the remaining tasks. i do not want to conceal the fact that some areas remain problematic. this applies in particular to the creation of the necessary conditions for the payment of agricultural aid. apparently, our system is very complicated. perhaps we should also consider whether the problem is really that the ten new member states are not smart enough or energetic enough to solve this problem, or whether it is rather that this system has become so complicated that a country that has not grown with it is no longer able to meet our requirements. i now have serious doubts as to where the problem really lies, whether it lies solely with the future member states or whether it does not lie to a considerable extent with us. (applause from the centre) another problem for most countries is food safety, the modernisation of food processing plants and their controls to protect public health. my colleague david byrne is in constant and close contact with the relevant ministers. i would like to make it clear once again that the commission guarantees that there will be no compromise in the area of food safety. the only products that will be placed on the internal market will be those which meet our standards. the commission will use the instruments at its disposal to solve outstanding problems with restraint and responsibility. we are in the process of preparing. i cannot tell you today whether safeguards have to be applied or not. it's not time to make that decision yet. if it is necessary, we will do so, as i said, with restraint and responsibility and inform you. let me now say a word on a subject which is of particular concern to us all these days, namely cyprus. if this question is resolved before 1 may, then we can rightly say that enlargement is not only a means of crisis prevention but also a means of resolving crises and conflicts. it would be a signal of incredible importance to the entire region. we must say that it was the european union which restarted the peace process and gave the un secretary-general the instruments which enabled him to invite the talks to resume. i was in cyprus on 19 february at the beginning of the talks and had good talks with the united nations and the leaders of the two communities. in the meantime, intensive political and technical contacts have taken place. the commission has stated from the outset that the cyprus talks are now its top priority and we have therefore done everything we can to support the peace process. commission experts are in cyprus to support the un team. i have fulfilled every wish of the united nations. even when additional help was requested, it was always immediately provided. the result is that the technical talks in cyprus are going very well, and that we have now finally begun to organize a substantive preparation for possible accession with the turkish community. late, as i must say, but the responsibility for that was mr. thinking pocket. we are now preparing the necessary legal instruments to enable the united cyprus to join. we will need regulations to gradually lift the suspension of the acquis for the north of the island. the use of turkish as a new official language will have to be prepared and not everything will be ready by 1 may. we will therefore have to provide for transitional periods in a number of areas. let me say again that we are able to transpose the results of the cyprus talks into community law, as long as these results do not run counter to the principles on which the european union is founded, namely democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. we are also making conditions, and i will say them again: we need a new cyprus that speaks with one voice. we need a new cyprus which is capable of acting at any time in international forums and which does not run the risk of blocking international forums. and we need a new cyprus with central structures that are strong enough to fully apply and enforce international obligations, including community law. these are absolutely mandatory conditions on our part. (applause from the centre) i declare our readiness to convene an international donor conference to help meet the costs of unification and i urge the two communities, the turkish cypriot and the greek cypriot, to take this unique opportunity now to send a signal of readiness for peace and reconciliation in this region. let me say something else about romania and bulgaria: we will do everything we can to help the presidency to ensure that the negotiations continue at the same pace and with the same quality and that they are concluded within the timeframe envisaged. we have put forward the proposal for the joint financial package for bulgaria and romania. the discussions so far show that the commission's proposal has been generally well received. the financial package for bulgaria and romania is fair, balanced and realistic in relation to the financial package for the 10. we shall be presenting the specific proposals for negotiating positions in april. as regards bulgaria, i share the rapporteur's assessment, mr van orden, and i too would like to note that remarkable progress has been made. the country needs to make further efforts, in particular in strengthening its administrative and judicial capacity. we are concentrating our cooperation with bulgaria on these areas. romania can also count on our help and solidarity. i have followed your debate with great interest and i have great appreciation for the seriousness with which parliament is dealing with the problems in romania. i think you have now found a balance which means that nothing in the report is being glossed over, nor can the political commitment of the european union to romania's accession be called into question. this is good, because romania needs encouragement on the one hand, but also a very clear answer to the question of what needs to be done. the commission shares the view of the additional efforts in the areas mentioned by the rapporteurs. it is about administrative reform, it is about judicial reform, it is about fighting corruption, and i say very explicitly that the fight against corruption must involve the political system. so, prosecuting petty officials is not enough. the great ones must be brought to justice. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of goods between the european community and romania. baroness nicholson has raised the issue of adoption. i would like to make the commission's position clear once again. our policy is clearly and unequivocally oriented towards the best interests of the child. this is in contrast to policies that are oriented to the interests of adoptive families in all sorts of countries. this difference is central. the fact that the child's welfare is not the central criterion but the interests of the families who want to adopt the child and the ngos that represent their interests is creating a market, and those who create a market can expect problems in romania. the commission therefore maintains that the moratorium on intercountry adoptions is necessary until legislation has entered into force which fully complies with international norms and standards for the protection of the child and until administrative structures are in place to guarantee the implementation of such legislation. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion of the negotiations in 2004 and accession in 2007 remains the common objective of the commission, parliament and the member states. i am sure that we will all do our utmost to help romania and bulgaria in this. but the key to success lies in sofia and even more in bucharest. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. commissioner verheugen has expressed concern that people in the countries of the european union today are not sufficiently informed. i share that concern, but i would like to ask the question: what is the alternative? the alternative - and we must tell the people this - would be the continuation of unfreedom, the continuation of a totalitarian regime. we should therefore be glad and grateful that the peoples of central europe - including, of course, cyprus and malta - are joining our union of values on the basis of human rights, democracy, the rule of law and the market economy, under different conditions. we warmly welcome the peoples of central europe and malta and cyprus. this is a cause for rejoicing! our group and the whole parliament have always been in favour of this. we will have the first free elections in europe. if you are in the candidate countries, our political friends and the people there call these european elections the first free elections in europe. we must therefore reject the demand of the prime minister of an applicant country who has proposed that there should be a single list. no, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am not in favour of this. elections are a political competition, and we should be glad that this competition is now possible in the central european countries too. (applause from the centre) the enlargement of the european union is not just a matter of substance. it is a question of values and a spiritual question at its core. we should also say to our new partners in central europe, in malta and cyprus: do not ask what you can get out of the european union, but let us ask ourselves together in the european union of today and tomorrow what we can do together for europe so that this europe becomes strong, so that this europe is democratic and so that this europe has weight in the world. i have great admiration for what the candidate countries have already done. after more than 50 years of communism, these peoples have had to make a tremendous effort. but there's still a lot of work to be done. the commission has already made this point, as have mr verheugen, mr brok and the other rapporteurs. but i think we're gonna make it through this. we should tell the people of the european union that the experience of enlargement with spain and portugal is an example of how everyone benefits from it in the end, both materially and economically. the challenges in the field of internal security remain enormous. i just spoke to an internal security expert from europol. of course we have to secure the outer borders. but this person has pointed out to me that the drug mafia, which is already doing its damage in the european union, will also be spreading in the candidate countries. this means that we must strengthen europol and police cooperation in general. i would like to make one final comment. the commission will have to make an assessment of turkey with this commission. there are differences of opinion in our group on whether turkey should become a member or not. i'm gonna leave that out of this. but we expect the commission, and you too, to give your assessment on the basis of the copenhagen criteria and not to make a politically opportunistic recommendation, but to respect the law. the commission is obliged to do so as the guardian of the treaties, and we will measure it against this standard. we'll meet again and talk about it. (applause from the centre)
co-author of the report. thank you very much, mr president. ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank commissioner günther verheugen for the constructive and very good cooperation over the years. the czech republic's achievements in recent years are undeniable. however, there are still shortcomings in certain areas, for example in standards in food processing establishments. but consumers here need not fear that what is not standard will not be allowed on the eu internal market. another problem which has been brought to my attention more and more recently is the alleged trafficking of people, and especially of children, on the german-czech border. the czech government should promote programmes to help victims. training programmes for police and border guards to raise awareness of trafficking in human beings are also needed, with cross-border cooperation on the basis of interreg to be strengthened. as regards the elbe upstream dam plans, i successfully argued with the eu commission that an environmental impact assessment is absolutely necessary for this project and that cross-sectoral alternatives must be developed. as a resident of the saxon elbe valley, which was flooded in the summer of 2002, i know what i am talking about. finally, i would like to comment on the czech parliament's intention to honour the former czechoslovak president, edvard beneš. ladies and gentlemen, after years of discussing the beneš decrees here in the european parliament, and after i found a compromise formula which was overwhelmingly adopted by the plenary last april, i find it uninstinctive and provocative that the czech side should now pass a law which not only invokes the past but even honours it; the country was about to join the eu. i do not want anyone who supports this bill in my group in future.
co-author of the report. the commission is not this electoral period is drawing to a close, as is the process of accession of ten countries to the european union. i have been closely involved with estonia since i became rapporteur for this parliament on the accession of estonia and have been visiting it regularly for the last 11 years. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the implementation of the acquis, and for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the implementation of the acquis. i see here in the house - he has just left - i saw the former foreign minister toomas hendrik ilves, whom i would like to thank on behalf of the other estonian colleagues for this determination which has characterized all the political camps in estonia. impressive personalities such as former president lennart meri and two-time prime minister mart laar, among others, have made a significant contribution to the country's european orientation in the past. i am also convinced that with the support of the eu, the dynamism of the country, which is reflected above all in tallinn, will also accelerate economic and social development in other, more remote parts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it must also be clear that the eu's partnership and cooperation agreement with russia applies equally to all new members. i expect clear answers from the council of ministers when the russian minister, sergei ivanov, repeats in the figaro on 5 march the propaganda lies of the ussr - and unfortunately also of present-day russia. and now in french: "que l'urss n'a pas envahi les pays baltes, mais a été appelée à l'aide". (the soviet union has not invaded the baltic countries, but has been called for help.) the european union must also say something very clear to russia.
co-author of the report. the commission is not on my recent visit to the country i am reporting on - latvia - i was under the impression that membership of the european union has not yet entered the minds of the political elite. the monitoring report was expected to praise the successes of the pre-accession process. but that's not his job. its task is to analyse the problems directly and indirectly relevant to living together in the european union, so that integration into the european union becomes a success for all concerned. i was pleased that the representative of the latvian government in brussels and former chief negotiator of the country considered my work thorough and serious and confirmed to me that the report touches the problems of the country. i would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the intensive exchange with the embassy and the other ministries and government agencies. these people have helped me with their information to get a realistic picture of the situation in the country. i would also like to thank the other members for their cooperation. in this way, unlike the commission, i could see that the measures taken by the new anti-corruption office were effective and promising. i am convinced that latvia can thus eliminate its negative image. i also met a dedicated minister of justice during my visit to the country and i am convinced that the reforms are in good hands and will be successful faster than the commission's report suggests. i can say the same about agricultural policy. i was also pleased to have opened up a political debate with my report on what is probably the most important social issue in the country: how can the integration of the russian-speaking population be improved? the debate on my report has been about how to achieve citizenship for at least one fifth of the population and how to speed up the process. i have patiently endured the accusations, condemnations and insults which have been hurled at me lately, in the hope that the debate on my proposals, which have been endorsed by the council of europe, will lead to success, i.e. to greater numbers of naturalisations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, the council of europe and the osce high commissioner cannot be accused of belonging to a particular political family. it is true, however, that my report does not do justice to the heroic national aspirations of a section of the country's political elite, which considers itself infallible. that wasn't my goal. i have written this report in the spirit of responsibility for the values we share in our european union. it's part of the human dignity is indivisible, and i stand by that.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on regional policy, transport and tourism. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. as the author of my committee's opinion, i would say that most countries should be able to implement key areas of the acquis at the time of accession, as far as regional policy and the structural funds are concerned. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. in the transport sector, the lack of progress in the road transport sector in the czech republic, poland and hungary is particularly disappointing. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the acquis in the field of transport and will continue to monitor the implementation of the acquis in the field of transport. the transeuropean transport networks are of great importance for the whole of europe. the accession countries, but also the union of the fifteen, should therefore be encouraged to see in the tens not only the realisation of national priorities but also a contribution to european cohesion and the growth of a united europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. despite some progress, it is an open secret that the enthusiasm of citizens for the eu has waned in several candidate countries, as the european elections will show. the reasons are obvious. unfortunately, unemployment in central and eastern europe is high, the gap between rich and poor has never been greater, social tensions are building up and corruption is on the rise. the eu's unilateral push for rapid privatisation has devastated once vital industrial centres in poland, the czech republic, hungary and slovakia. the social instability also threatens democracy and the copenhagen criteria thus become a false instrument. such tendencies should be decisively curbed and prevented. as far as the roma are concerned, individual countries are being warned, but it is clear that the eu must adopt a community approach, otherwise the problem cannot be solved. individual states are not up to the task. the russian minorities in the baltic states are a political issue which may appear to be burdened by moscow, but in reality represents an internal conflict of education and civil rights which must be resolved politically. i think it is more than a political scandal that a competent accompanying czech accession commissioner like mr telička should be publicly questioned because he was a member of the communist party for about two years as a young man. the bad spirit of anti-communism, which is out of date, is here and could poison the climate not only in this house but also in the applicant countries.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this parliament has always welcomed the accession of the peoples of central and eastern europe. we have always been the advocates of the people in these countries who want a ticket to this eu. it would therefore be illogical to call for the accession negotiations to be abandoned now in the case of romania. a totally wrong signal! the opposite is true: not a breakdown of the negotiations, but an intensification of the negotiations. we must express that we are now even more concerned with all the partners in this country to solve the open chapters and the problems there. this is the message that must be sent to romania today and tomorrow when the report is put to the vote: we will help you, but you must do the work in the country yourself, you must meet the copenhagen criteria. it is true that romania has lost a lot of time. for almost a decade in the 1990s, the reform process did not progress. but we must also recognize that in recent years there has been a certain amount of momentum and dynamism in some of the chapters, and we must support this. we consider it wrong that paragraph 1 uses the wording that it is impossible for romania to become an acceding country in 2007. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must be careful not to make this country look too much like a bogeyman. i see the numbers 17, 18 and 19 there. we demand that minority languages be taught. i would be happy if other countries, including eu member states, could use their own language in schools, libraries and theatres in the same way that germans and hungarians can in romania. when paragraph 19 talks about child marriage, then you have to qualify it. it is not the case everywhere in the country that children are forced to marry, but it is the case in some roma families. it will be important for my group tomorrow to see whether our amendments are accepted - then we can vote in favour. otherwise we have difficulties with this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in all the years that we have been dealing with resolutions on the enlargement process as the european parliament, i have sometimes felt uneasy when we have imposed on you very specific expectations, down to the last detail, from the countries, expectations which we have not even fulfilled ourselves in some cases, and said: 'you have to change this and that and that.' i think that the commissioner's remarks this morning on agricultural policy were very helpful in this respect. perhaps we should really ask ourselves: if the countries cannot implement this administratively as quickly, perhaps it is also our problem and not so much the problem of the countries from which we expect this. i would like to see some of our workload put to the test once we have joined - we had to do that in germany after reunification - to see what has been accumulated in bureaucracy over the years and what might the new countries bring us in terms of more flexible and faster solutions? i will begin with a general remark. i'm a shadow reporter for hungary. of course, hungary has always been the model country, the country which helped to break through the iron curtain, the wall, as early as august 1989. the pan-european picnic in august 1989, when the whole thing was still on the rocks, was an important signal to europe that the hungarians had sent, and they always met all the criteria very well, so that they could actually be a model country. that is why i am particularly surprised that the hungarian prime minister has now made this ridiculous proposal that we should run with a single list, in which seats are divided between the government and the opposition, and that we should thus enter a new europe. that's really old thinking! some heads of government - perhaps even the german in the present situation - may also wish that half of the seats be divided between the government and the opposition. i would like to say that democracy is competition, that democracy is a struggle for the right solutions, and i would therefore like to see the hungarian prime minister, mr medgyessy, say goodbye to this idea and return to our parliamentary forms of dispute and to party competition in his internal politics.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. today is the last time we are dealing here in parliament with the accession process of the ten new member states. we are only 51 days away from the historic date of 1 may 2004, when the european union will become a union of 25. the european union's special enlargement will take place on labour day. this date is symbolic of the challenge we must meet to achieve economic and social cohesion in the union of 25. it is equally important that we extend the extended intra-european peace process to a genuine common european policy for peace abroad. i have been involved in cyprus since i entered the european parliament in 1984. at that time, few considered cyprus' accession to the eu to be realistic. a few years later, the european parliament took a strong stand against making a solution to the cyprus problem a condition for cyprus's accession. i remember some of my former colleagues, such as pauline green, jan willem bertens and yannos kranindiotis. we believe that the accession process would be the catalyst for an agreement. there is now a strong chance that the 30-year division of cyprus can be ended before 1 may. it is to be hoped - no, it is to be expected - that this, perhaps for a long time, last chance will be taken up by the negotiating partners. and i hope and i am counting on the fact that the signals from turkey in recent times to work towards a solution will continue to be valid. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are analysing and describing today the final steps towards a peaceful and comprehensive reorganization of our continent. this is unprecedented in the history of europe: a new order without war and violence. this development is particularly evident when we look at the path of the states which have overcome the supposedly real socialism and have won freedom and democracy. estonia, latvia and lithuania should be given special recognition. these states were able to regain their independence on the road to freedom. i would like to thank the people, the parliament and the government of latvia in particular. with the support of the european union, they have created the conditions for solving a very complicated problem, namely the gradual integration of the large russian-speaking population. if one considers that ethnic composition is primarily the result of decades of occupation, this development is not self-evident. it is not a matter of course, given the continuing misunderstandings and innuendoes, for example, on the part of the russian duma. i would like to thank mr brok, who this morning expressed clear expectations of a change in the russian position. latvia, like estonia, has set itself a task which will have a european dimension in the future. i am convinced that the integration of russian-speaking people into latvian society will succeed. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the latvian authorities are able to exercise their right to vote and stand as a candidate in the elections. this also implies the unconditional acceptance of the values and principles of the european union. the firm anchoring of latvia, estonia and lithuania in the european union will be the most important prerequisite for establishing and expanding cooperation with russia in the future. this cooperation is a strategic challenge for the european union as a whole and the new member states will make an indispensable contribution to it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have just spoken to estonia and, in my absence, i praised the former prime minister mart laar and foreign minister ilves for their consistent reform policy towards the interior and their country's european orientation towards the outside. now they're both sitting right here next to me, and so again, thank you and congratulations for this. as shadow rapporteur for lithuania, i was particularly pleased with the high approval rating of over 91% in the eu accession referendum, but also with the high growth rates of the economy in recent years, which are only now making it possible to generate the finances needed to solve the social problems of transformation. the example of lithuania also shows that there are still conflicts between democratic institutions and mafia forces that are trying to exert influence at the highest levels of the state. i am confident in the independence of the constitutional court in lithuania. i am also confident that the lithuanian parliament's investigations into the impeachment of the incumbent president will produce results that meet the requirements of the rule of law. this is perhaps one of the points i particularly criticise about romania, and one which has been raised by many speakers this morning. maybe we should not only punish the little ones, but also the big ones. in romania too, corruption and nepotism reach the highest levels. that's one of the reasons why the country has fallen so far behind. another reason is that there has been far too little exchange after the turn. it was a bit of a failed revolution. many of the old structures are just where they were -- not just at the top, but at other levels as well. the criticism is justified, but so is the announcement of our support and willingness to help. but the work must be done first and foremost in the country itself, and sometimes you have to start from the top.
mr president, madam vice-president of the commission! it would have been nice if the president-in-office had stayed on the subject, but we are used to it. i would like to stress first of all, madam vice-president, that you have gone to great lengths to put forward a sensible proposal. the van miert group was a very good idea. they have revised the van miert group's findings and incorporated them into the commission's proposal. thank you very much. i would like to thank mr bradbourn for his report, which is very thorough. the report as it stands does not quite meet mr bradbourn's wishes, however, because a haphazard majority in the committee has pushed through very strong amendments to annex iii. but maybe we can work this out tomorrow. i want to focus on three main points. my group agrees that we should increase the list of priority projects to 30 projects. i hear the council suddenly doesn't want the 30th project. so he has to decide what he wants. we are prepared to extend the list, for example by adding the project of a fixed crossing over the fehmarn belt. we are also in favour of a more precise definition of projects in some areas under annex iii. there are a number of amendments to this, and i hope the council will accept them. my group is prepared at this stage to limit the list to 30 projects, because we know that transeuropean networks cannot be decided on against the opposition of the member states under article 156 (2). it is therefore pointless to expand the list considerably now, given the limited time available. we are following the commissioner's line. i hope the other groups will do the same. madam vice-president, we are very much in favour of the idea of motorways of the sea. i think it is very important to promote short sea shipping, particularly ferry transport. it relieves the burden on road and rail corridors and is a very energy-efficient and environmentally friendly mode of transport. but, madam vice-president, we are behind the rapporteur. the issue of the motorway of the sea must not lead to the use of public funds to pay operating subsidies, or even to the purchase of ships by the state in order to compete with the private sector. this is contrary to the idea of transeuropean networks! the transeuropean networks have always been about improving the infrastructure so that the economy can use it. but there's no way this is going to be expanded. i believe that we will reach a reasonable conclusion with the council, but the window of agreement is very narrow. if the council does not clearly define its interests by monday evening so that we can have a clear common line, then by 1 may it will be nothing, because we will not simply give up the good positions of parliament which have been included in the bradbourn report just because the council stubbornly sticks to its positions. this is a matter of co-decision. both sides need to move.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the reform of the transeuropean networks which has been discussed here is not sustainable. it is not clear that there is a truly sustainable mobility concept for europe as a whole behind this, but it is simply a collection of national interests once again. the commission has already made proposals which have been put forward and which have been well received. the projects are not shown to have been subject to optimal cost-benefit analyses and are in many respects in conflict with european environmental legislation. this is also evident from the fact that projects declared as priorities are in breach of the birds directive, the habitats directive and the water framework directive. i'm only mentioning the kresna gorge and the messina bridge. the concept of transeuropean networks must pass a strategic environmental review before european money can flow into the projects. only projects which are positively assessed here can be supported. european money must be invested in a sustainable way. european money must also be forward-looking if we are to enable our children to be mobile in the future. these are long-term projects that we're planning. we are firmly opposed to these failed plans, especially the ones i have mentioned.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it would be very amusing, of course, to discuss the debate within the conservatives. i do not want to do that, because mr bradbourn has made a good report. i think we should stress that the transeuropean transport networks are, first and foremost, a fascinating european project. it is about the transport of goods, it is about jobs, and it is also about taking care of the environment when transporting. the commission proposal is very consistent in this respect, because it makes it clear that europe wants to switch to environmentally friendly modes of transport and to water. the motorways of the sea are paving new roads. the european transport policy has no need to hide behind that. however, rail projects and waterways also have environmental implications, and that is why we need a strategic environmental impact assessment within the transeuropean networks. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european research area. if you plan to build motorways between the north sea and the baltic sea - which i think is a good idea - but forget the north sea-balkan canal, which would shorten the routes considerably, then that is not possible, that would be absurd. that's why we need to improve here. the council, i think, is to say: we have experience as a parliament in the construction of transeuropean networks. the only keywords were the christophersen group or the essen projects. it is therefore not surprising that parliament attaches great importance to the fact that the implementation - and that means also the financing - of the transeuropean networks and the priority projects is subject to strict control and monitoring. if the council wants solutions - and i think it can get them - then it is a matter of fair compromises, and then there can be no basta on the part of the council, but then we must agree. if he takes the opportunity, we can come up with some good solutions.
council. – this is a very serious matter. with regard to trafficking in human beings, the council would like to refer to its reply to oral question h-0575/03. as already pointed out in that reply, the comprehensive issue of trafficking in human beings needs to be addressed both at national and international level and needs to be dealt with within a broader context, which involves criminal law, asylum, immigration policies and preventative measures. a general agreement has been reached in the council on a proposal for a council directive on the residence permits issued to third-country nationals who have been victims of trafficking and who cooperate with the competent authorities. the purpose of the proposal is to offer victims who are willing to cooperate in proceedings against traffickers the possibility to remain in member states for the duration of those proceedings and to obtain other benefits to assist them in escaping from the influence of the traffickers and returning to a normal life. such other benefits may include, for example, access to employment, vocational training and education and other special programmes. this instrument, when adopted, will have an important role in the fight against traffickers. formal adoption will be possible when parliament has delivered its opinion. in addition to the framework decision on combating trafficking in human beings, which was adopted on 19 july 2002, the council adopted a framework decision on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography on 22 december 2003. as far as border controls are concerned, the council recalls that in 2002 two plans were submitted which contained a series of measures designed to achieve a higher level of security at the external borders and to combat trafficking in human beings. the first is a comprehensive plan to combat illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, which was approved by the council in february 2002. the second was the plan for the management of external borders of the member states of the european union, which was approved by the council on 13 june 2002. both plans contain short- and long-term measures aimed at creating integrated border management. since 2002, various pilot projects and joint operations have been launched at the external borders. a network of member state liaison officers has been created; a common risk analysis model and a common core curriculum for border guard training has been established. they are very welcome measures. various ad hoc centres were set up or are in the process of being established by member states, each of which focuses on a specific type of border, for example an air-border centre, a land-border centre, or a sea-border centre. furthermore, a centre for ad hoc border guard training and a risk analysis centre are also being set up.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you very much for the detailed answer. my question, however, was specifically about the present eastern borders of the eu with the candidate countries and the future eastern borders of the candidate countries with the cis countries. my question was specifically about programmes to reduce the high level of prostitution there. we have the following situation in the czech border area with bavaria: the majority of the victims and a large proportion of the perpetrators come from the far east, from russia and romania, i.e. from countries which have not yet joined. the scene of the crime is usually the czech republic, a candidate country, and the donors and clients - as bad as that is - are mostly from the eu today, germany. in this respect, it is a transnational problem. i am particularly interested in what is being done in the border regions to deal with the large scale of prostitution there.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, parliament has decided to deal with three matters relating to the air transport sector, but of a different nature. i shall therefore refer to them consecutively and separately and i shall follow the order in which they have been used in their speeches. i will start with the unfair pricing practices in the provision of air transport services from non-community countries and i thank mr clegg for having, despite his condition, endured a little in the house. i would like to point out, firstly, that i am glad that we have reached the second reading stage in good conditions on such an important proposal, which must protect the position of our airline industry, although you are quite right in saying that it should in no way be used as an element to limit competition or the entry of third parties into our industry, but quite the contrary. what it has to do is to prevent our companies from being put at a disadvantage vis-à-vis third parties. it is to be hoped that this text will enter into force shortly, thanks to the excellent spirit of cooperation between the institutions, and in that regard i must once again express my gratitude to parliament and especially to mr clegg, with whom we have worked closely. the text gives the union new powers to defend itself if certain anti-competitive practices arise in third countries. this house has repeatedly expressed its concern at the harm that certain subsidies granted by third countries could cause to the competitive functioning of the air market. mr schmitt, rapporteur for the report on the negotiation of bilateral agreements by the united states, has stressed this point and i hope that the adoption at second reading of this regulation on this type of unfair practices will meet his expectations and thus facilitate the development of agreements with third countries. the european parliament, at its first reading, helped to clarify and make more effective the mechanisms provided for in the draft regulation, in particular by setting deadlines. the only amendment proposed at second reading will bring full consistency to the text, specifying the sequential link envisaged between the activation of the mechanisms established in the bilateral instruments of the states and that of the community instrument. the commission fully supports the objectives of this amendment. once adopted - and i hope soon - this regulation will be an essential instrument for the union to prevent and correct any practices which may be adopted by third country airlines to the detriment of the rule of fair competition. this is a major additional step, to which must be added the other progress made over the past year in consolidating our air transport policy, in order to take full control of the crucial international dimension of the air transport sector and to defend the already prominent place of our industry in it. with regard to the second report, i would like to highlight the work of the rapporteur, mr dhaene, and say that in the case of civil aviation safety, in view of the many proposals put forward, the introduction of some amendments to regulation (ec) no 2320/2002 on civil aviation safety is not very relevant. it is actually intended to correct some of the shortcomings of the framework regulation that member states identified in 2003 when they tried to apply eu aviation safety rules to smaller airports, where, because of their own activity and size, there were aspects that did not make much sense. the proposal does not concern any question of principle and i am pleased to note that both the council and the european parliament have indicated their willingness to adopt it swiftly in a single reading. in this sense, the commission is prepared to hold a dialogue on possible changes to the content of this important regulation during the next legislature, if we consider that there are still outstanding issues. as regards the third report - mr nicholson's report, to which i wish him the best of luck in the forthcoming elections - on insurance requirements for airlines and air operators, i must say that i am pleased with the long way the proposal for a regulation has come. it is a very important regulation and we saw its importance after 11 september, when we were faced with a limiting situation for our airlines which required the support of the public sector. the decision-making process has received the firm support of all the institutions to reach a compromise. i would like to express my satisfaction with the constructive role played by this parliament and i would like to reiterate once again the importance of the role and action of this institution in bringing together social support and the sectors and people involved. in particular, i would like to thank the crucial work done by mr nicholson. aviation insurance has been shown to be necessary to ensure that persons and property are adequately insured against damage both on the ground and in flight. we want to ensure that we cover all types of damage, including damage caused by acts of war and terrorism. the amendment tabled by the european parliament to the common position is, in its form and content, understandable to the commission, which supports it. it reflects to a large extent the commission's initial proposal for sport and leisure aviation using small aircraft weighing less than half a tonne. at the same time, in relation to damage caused by war and terrorism, it attributes the insurance requirements of certain aircraft to the principle of subsidiarity. this ensures that governments, if they so wish, can set the insurance requirements for such risks and that this type of aviation activity can be maintained without being too costly, as the insurance requirements for war and terrorism laid down in the regulation will not apply to aircraft of less than 500 kg, including gliders and ultra-light aircraft. i would point out that mr nicholson is quite right when he says that we are dealing with a legislative proposal which will very likely have to be reviewed in three or four years' time because it will depend on what international progress is in this area - we hope that it is as positive as possible - as regards third party liability and that the rome convention - which is currently dealing with the matter - is making progress. that, in due course, will force us to have to retouch the proposal, something we are prepared to do. in any event, i hope that the overall result will be acceptable to parliament and to the council and that the co-decision process on this matter can be completed at second reading during the current legislature. i would like to thank the three rapporteurs once again for their excellent work, which is part of the effort to support and back up the european aviation sector and i hope that it will be completed shortly, with the council's agreement.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank the three rapporteurs on behalf of my group. it's a bit sad that there's no one here, no journalist, no audience, but that's the way it is. the three rapporteurs have done an excellent job on key legislative initiatives and we are pleased that we have made progress. i would like to thank mr clegg for the fact that we have reached a joint regulation with the council to protect our airlines against subsidization and unfair practices. we both - and i think we all - agree that it is more like loading a box of ammunition than putting guns in. we hope that with this box of ammunition we can prevent unfair subsidies, for example in the american sector. in any case, we can threaten that we will have a stockpile of munitions with sanctions against their airlines in favour of our airlines if this is not stopped. we do not want to restrict competition, but we do want to have a case of fair competition on a global scale. mr dhaene has done a great deal of work to improve the practical details of this regulation on the establishment of common rules for civil aviation safety. i believe that the commission's approach to adapting the very stringent rules we need after 11 september to small airports so that it is practical and affordable there is shared by parliament and the council. i thank mr dhaene for the practical solution. we are not just empty legislators, as some might think. mr nicholson probably had the most difficult dossier because it was the most expensive dossier, namely the question of insurance cover requirements. this is the source of the insurance premiums, which can be very expensive. i believe that we have found a system which has brought together the interests of passengers in reasonable, high insurance coverage, but also the interests of airlines in still affordable premiums, in a reasonable balance. the sums are a fair compromise. that james nicholson has managed to treat the sailors in the right way is, i think, very nice. i would like to thank the vice-president once again. we are in the process of adopting all the legislation that is necessary in this election period on aviation. there is a trans-parliamentary majority, so to speak, to adopt these practical rules for reasonable air safety together. i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the vice-president for my group.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we must be very careful when voting on the report on the internal market strategy. we must be careful that the excellent work of mr bill miller is not turned upside down and that this parliament does not revoke its decision on public services in the general interest, which it took in january, after only a few weeks. let me illustrate this with our water. in january we spoke out against the unrestrained privatisation of basic services such as water and sanitation, but also health and education. we have recognised and written down that these are matters which must be decided as closely as possible to the citizen in the towns and communities. the social security system is a matter for the people concerned and not the plaything of an unfettered market. bill miller has underlined this again in his report on the single market strategy. he warned with compelling examples of the dangers that arise when we degrade our precious water into a common commodity. but the committee's deliberations have shown that strong conservative and liberal forces are not moving fast enough in the business of making substantial parts of public services in the public interest. we must put a stop to this in the house and make the so-called miller report a real miller report again. the necessary requests to repair the blunder which the committee is accused of have been made. please, everyone, help us not to fall behind our cities and communities, as this unfortunate conservative-liberal alliance would like.
commission. – mr president, i am grateful for this opportunity to discuss with parliament the issue of scientific and technological cooperation between israel and the european community. i would firstly like to thank the rapporteur, mrs quisthoudt-rowohl, and the members of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy for their work and constant interest in science and research matters. the aim of this agreement is to enable continued cooperation with israel in the field of science and technology. this relationship has been developing ever since israel's participation in the fourth framework programme for research. i would also emphasise the importance of this cooperation within the framework of the development of the euro-mediterranean partnership, as well as in the implementation of the european research area. the present agreement is an extension of the one associating israel with the activities of the fifth framework programme for research and technological development. the latter is based on the fundamental principle of reciprocity, which takes into account the mutual interests of the two parties and covers all the fields suggested by the sixth framework programme, with the exception of nuclear research. scientific cooperation with israel has already resulted in numerous joint projects in the field of research and technological development. under the fifth framework programme, 623 projects were undertaken by european research teams in association with israeli teams, who coordinated 149 of those projects. the public and private partners engaged in this cooperation have stressed the value of that cooperation and the benefits of it. this was emphasised during the evaluation of the impact of the agreement associating israel to the fifth framework programme. i should also like to stress the value of this type of agreement for the development for euro-mediterranean regional scientific cooperation. for example, the hortimed project associates israel and neighbouring countries such as egypt, the palestinian territories, cyprus and greece in the search for economic and sustainable solutions for the use of water in irrigated horticulture, particularly by using recycled and cleaned water. another major element, mentioned previously, is the contribution this agreement makes to the implementation of the european research area and its opening-up to the rest of the world. more generally, it also contributes to the development of a knowledge-based society. in this context, the commission is willing to promote international cooperation in scientific and technological matters with third country partners. the cooperation agreement with israel fits naturally into this strategy, particularly in respect of the middle east. the agreement should also enable scientists to continue their efforts for regional cooperation with the countries neighbouring israel for the benefit of all, and this in the difficult circumstances currently prevailing in the middle east. i am therefore convinced that parliament should and will give its support to the conclusion of this agreement.
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. on 20 november 1995 a mediterranean agreement was concluded between the ec and israel, which associated israel with the community in the fields of trade in goods and services, the right of establishment, capital movements and economic and cultural cooperation. this institutionalised a political dialogue which had existed on a very regular basis. the eu also has special relations with the palestinian authority and is one of the partners in the middle east peace process. i have already mentioned the two elements which are important when considering this agreement. israel and the european union have been cooperating in research and development since 1975. in 1983 joint research funding was introduced and, as commissioner bolkestein has already pointed out, israel was fully associated in the fifth framework programme. i was also the rapporteur for this association at the time. these agreements were and are the expression of the recognition that research at the end of the 20th century is international in nature and that a limitation to the territory of the eu is often not in the interest of research. israel has a very innovative research landscape and still spends more on research than the eu in relation to its gdp. the country is at the top of the list in terms of scientific publications per capita, and i will not repeat the figures already mentioned. during the fifth framework programme, both sides have benefited from the cooperation: israel gains access to a large network of research facilities, and the eu gains access to israel's innovative potential. the large number of projects supported also demonstrates the success of this cooperation. some projects have partners not only from israel but from the whole mediterranean region. the commission has already mentioned the water treatment, but there are also facilities in the palestinian territories which are successfully participating in our research programme. i want to repeat here, for a part of this house: the report does not envisage any cooperation in the field of military research or in the field of euratom. (interruption by "damage") as in the case of the two previous contracts, israel's participation in the sixth framework programme for research is subject to a contribution to the financing of the programme in proportion to its gross domestic product. it participates as a participant with the same rights and obligations as the eu member states. the only exception is that it participates in the crest committee only as an observer. the increase in our research funding through israeli participation and the know-how brought by israeli institutions can only be seen as positive for the eu participants, and we are clearly in a win-win situation here. in the implementation of the agreement, a joint committee will be established to ensure the involvement of israeli officials in the management committees and the participation of experts as experts and in programme committees. the commission has therefore decided to extend the agreement. and so that i am not misunderstood, i quote from a letter that the israeli ambassador, oded eran, wrote to me. i quote in english: "as you pointed out, the overall situation in the middle east and specifically between israel and the palestinian authority is far from being ideal at the moment. and the whole middle east peace process is facing a critical test". i therefore understand the amendment's opponents who say that we should suspend all cooperation with israel until there is peace in this region, which is unfortunately so unstable. however, i must say that it is my firm belief that by closing doors we cannot cooperate at all. we should be prepared to discuss openly with all sides; it is the only way we can influence the peace process. the agreement is therefore to be regarded very favourably from the point of view of research policy. researchers and research institutions in the eu, as well as businesses, will benefit from this cooperation. in view of the political situation, i am convinced that it can contribute to de-escalation, since palestinian researchers and institutions will also have the opportunity to cooperate with israeli and european institutions. and those who work together do not fight. i would like to close by thanking all those who have spoken to me: i have received a lot of support from all sides - those in favour, those against, those who benefit from it and those who want to change it - and i can certainly have very peaceful, relaxed conversations. thank you. i hope that my report will be adopted by a large majority tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that mrs quisthoudt-rowohl and my group colleague, mrs eryl mcnally, have both shed a very good light on the different positions. the european parliament's decision is always difficult when it comes to a difficult political conflict situation - and in the case of israel this is understandable. i think it is good to be clear about what is at stake, what we are trying to achieve and what signal we are giving by this parliament in supporting the position of the commission and the council. the aim is to continue a cooperation, a dialogue which already exists in the scientific and technological-scientific field, and which is mutually beneficial. it is not only that, as some of the speeches have said, israel may eventually benefit from it, but we also benefit. it is not only beneficial for scientists and for universities and research institutions, but it is also beneficial for people, because scientists work together and there is exchange, because politicians are involved in this cooperation, and as my colleague has pointed out, it is also beneficial for society as a whole. we are investing in a future perspective which we hope will put an end to the extremely difficult political and human situation and in which europe can play its part. i am therefore proud and pleased that my coordinator, eryl mcnally, has always stressed in the debate in the group that we will vote in favour of this report. there is one small point on which i would like to point out to my green colleagues who have difficulties with the dual use aspect, but we do not support military research on the part of the european union. that's not covered by our research program. in this respect, cooperation in this field is also automatically excluded.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is sad, after our memorial moments, to be talking about legislation which is actually designed to bring citizens of europe together, to give them rights which apply throughout europe and to give them opportunities to see europe as a career prospect, as a labour market. this legislation has been in place for more than 30 years and, as my predecessors have said, we reform it every year to take account of current changes in national legislation, but also to take account of recent case law of the european court of justice. i think that the commission's proposal and, in particular, the suggestions made by commissioner solbes on the amendments are useful. i regret that the epp now wants to use this report for changes which are in themselves foreseen in the great reform and not here. it is perhaps a little confusing that we are also talking today about the reform of regulation 1408, because in the last few months, in the last few weeks, in the last committee meeting, we have spoken at length about the great reform that is coming, the great reform that has been worked out in parallel and in which we have also achieved decisive improvements for the citizens of europe and which is practically close to completion. however, there is a small limitation: the major reform will not come into force until 2007, so current adjustments are necessary. i thank the rapporteur on behalf of my group. mrs gillig has presented a serious and responsible report, because she could of course have been tempted to table a lot of fine amendments which we could not have put into practice, either with the commission or with the council. that is why this report is responsible. there is of course another problem which my two colleagues from the netherlands and belgium will probably be dealing with, namely the situation of the border commuters, who will in fact be a major problem in all the member states and probably in the future with enlargement. we have found a balance between allowing citizens to benefit from the social benefits of a state and not overburdening the social security systems of the national states. it is a balanced report, a realistic report, and we should not - dear epp colleagues - overload it with proposals which are not really useful at this time.
the rapporteur. the commission is not i too would like to join the speakers in expressing my deepest condolences to the spanish people and to the victims and their families. it's really hard to get to the point. but the issue is health care and retirement. and it's a very important issue. the report will probably be very widely accepted in the plenary today - the result of excellent inter-group cooperation. i would like to thank all my colleagues for this, but especially mr mantovani. my report is, moreover, a follow-up to his report which he presented a year ago. the demands we made then have not lost any of their relevance. the pressure of the problem has increased. i am simply pointing out the long waiting times for treatment, the growing shortages of staff and the alarming reports of conditions in nursing homes that are sometimes inhumane. in the meantime, governments have also recognised the importance of organising a structured european exchange of experience in both health and care. the results of the high level reflection process speak for themselves. but we can't waste any more time. we therefore urge the european council to adopt open coordination in principle and a clear timetable in june. the common objectives and the corresponding indicators should be agreed by spring 2006. finally, the open method of coordination is also provided for in the draft treaty of the convention on health policy - and of course also with the appropriate participation of this house. if member states are to continue to guarantee the general accessibility, quality and affordability of health systems and care for the elderly, we need above all more prevention and transparency. prevention and health promotion must be given the same importance as curative medicine at both european and national level. otherwise we will soon be unable to cope with the increasing burden of sickness. transparency, on the other hand, is a prerequisite for quality and the optimal use of resources in health systems. the quality of medical care must be much more traceable than it has been in the past. we must stop spending a lot of money on poor quality. patient organisations have a very important role to play in this context. they must be more involved in all health policy decisions in the future. the commission has also proposed that the member states adopt a patient law or a patient charter. in order to give more legal certainty to sick people when they seek treatment abroad, we also need common european standards on patients' rights. the adoption of a european patient charter would indeed be a major breakthrough. we therefore call on the commission and the member states to draw up common criteria in this area. however, following the european court of justice's rulings on reimbursement of medical treatment abroad in europe, many questions remain open. we therefore expect the european commission to come forward with proposals to help patients to have greater legal certainty. we also expect proposals to protect national health systems from possible negative consequences of the single market regulations. a permanent committee of experts should monitor the impact of european regulations and report regularly. because health is not an economic good. we must protect the solidarity of our health systems. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide the necessary information to the public on the health and safety of older people. we should look together at strategies to better link health and care, to strengthen home care and to provide enough care facilities. we also need clear standards of care, both for home care and for care facilities. above all, we need regular and independent quality controls. so much remains to be done to preserve our european model of solidarity in health policy in the long term.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. they have announced that these operations will be subject to an investigation. i would ask you to take the following fact into account in this review: journalists from a german magazine claim to have all the lists of the european parliament's secretarial allowances for 2002. i would like to know how lists of 2002 secretarial allowances can get into the hands of journalists and what conclusions you draw from this. (applause from the centre)
mr president, following mrs nicholson's statement that the first sentence should be deleted, the pse group withdraws amendment no 2.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ukraine is undoubtedly a european country, one of the largest countries in europe, and we must not forget that this european country was oppressed and plundered for decades by soviet colonialism. much of what we criticize today in ukraine should be criticized without self-righteousness, because we have been spared this fate, thank god, most of us anyway. so you have to understand some things. it takes time for ukraine to develop. we have done a great deal as a parliament in recent years to support ukraine, and even before the 1989-91 turn of events there were forces in western europe that worked with ukraine. i remember the ukrainian university in exile in my constituency in munich or radio liberty, which used to broadcast from munich. munich was perhaps a sort of ukrainian metropolis in freedom. that is why we have always had a great deal of sympathy and understanding for the ukrainian people's desire for their own lives. but we cannot tolerate politicians who are not only corrupt, who are not only taking time to move their country forward, but who are actually doing the opposite: trying to freeze the delicate seeds of democracy and the rule of law, actively fighting the opposition with criminal methods, trying to silence critical media. it is a huge scandal when, for example, a colleague here in the european parliament - and she will not be the only one - has been followed by a ukrainian intelligence officer for bringing ukrainian oppositionists here to the european parliament or for raising critical issues such as organ trafficking, child trafficking and many other problems which unfortunately exist in and with ukraine. that is why our policy must be very clear: fundamental sympathy for the ukrainian people as an important european partner, but strong language and clear measures against any form of backsliding and destruction of this democracy, which is only in its infancy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. i would like to ask for your attention, mr president, outside the agenda. it is a process of a somewhat extraordinary nature. i ask for your understanding that i am addressing him here, and i ask for your help, mr president. there is a member of this house who has today made a very large number of allegations in the german press against the german press agency against - as he put it - some 200 members of this house who, in his opinion, have been guilty of breaches of the rules in force in this parliament. the issue is the payment of daily allowances and the right to be entered in attendance registers. this is not a new phenomenon. we have had to deal with this debate on several occasions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is a very important point, and i would like to make it clear that the commission is not prepared to accept this amendment. i think that this statement is so serious that i ask you, mr president, to do the following: please contact this colleague. i ask that you refer these 7 200 cases to me and i believe that the control bodies responsible for this - whoever is responsible: the quaestors, the committee on budgetary control, the court of auditors, the anti-fraud office - are dealing with these 7 200 cases. if there is any unlawful conduct, then those unlawful acts must be investigated. if there is no illegal behaviour, then it cannot stand in the way of the alleged 7200 violations. my request to you is: please help to ensure that where there have been irregularities, they are rectified and that those responsible are held to account. but if things were in accordance with our rules, they must be recorded as in accordance with the rules. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'll check it again. i thank you for that remark. but i ask you this: the accusations are serious, and serious accusations strike people in their honor and integrity when they are found to be baseless. if these allegations are true, they must be punished. there's a lot of complaints about us being in the middle of our own business, and if you're the president, you're not being given enough information. i therefore ask you once again to consult not only parliament itself but also, if necessary, other authorities outside parliament. there is the court of auditors, which can verify with certainty whether or not colleagues are behaving in accordance with the rules. and so i think it's in all of our best interests that the allegations be brought to the table and reviewed by an authorized body. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs and internal market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am speaking as rapporteur for the transparency directive on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. i believe that the compromise proposal which has now been put forward is a good one and that the main reservations raised by parliament against the original commission proposal have been largely dispelled by this compromise, which has now been found for a first reading. we have succeeded as a parliament in avoiding a whole series of regulations which - i will put it this way - would have been superfluous and costly. i am merely pointing out, by way of example, the obligation to report quarterly, which would have - and mr skinner has pointed this out - cost the companies a lot, but would have brought little in return. the directive is also intended to prevent developments such as those in the case of parmalat, enron, worldcom and others. they all wrote quarterly reports. let's see what comes out of it. so we should not burden the economy with measures that do not work. secondly, the committee on legal affairs and internal market felt that consistency and compliance with the directive on electronic business registers was important. we have included an optional clause on the media of publication, whereby member states may provide for additional media in addition to the internet, depending on their tradition, also in the context of compulsory publications. we have succeeded in restoring this rule to this directive. i believe that this ensures that two directives dealing with a similar subject can be treated equally in the legislation of the member states. this is a key point. the committee on legal affairs and the internal market also welcomes the solution found for the debt securities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think the limited grandfathering regulation that has now been found prevents that. our bargaining position has not deteriorated. we are not making it worse for those who are already in europe. i am very pleased with the overall result and i would like to thank my fellow rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation.
the commission has already done so. the adoption of the two directives today is a positive event. on the one hand, i am pleased that, if the directives are adopted in this form, two important directives have been adopted in this parliament as part of the financial services action plan. it is important that we have achieved this in this parliamentary term - before the elections and before we go into enlargement - to lay the foundations for an integrated financial market that makes europe more attractive, especially compared to america. and secondly, i am glad that it is primarily, or very much, thanks to the european parliament, along with the commission, that this has happened. the compromise and the guidelines we found in the first reading of the european parliament have proved the goodwill of all involved. i would like to emphasize in particular mrs villiers, who has succeeded in finding a way through dialogue, not only between the various political groups but also between the various nations, which in the end was also the way for the member states. i regret that the member states have, in fact, demonstrated time and again, right up to the end, how little they are willing and able to pursue a common objective. the investment services directive is about more competition between the systems. we have different systems in the eu. it is about more competition and also transparency, price formation, consumer protection. if we want to build europe, then the heads of government must also realise that it cannot be that one system wins and the other does not. on the one hand, there are the large investment banks, on the other, the smaller banks, the savings banks, the cooperative banks. i think we have done a very good job as a european parliament, both in terms of time and content. on the transparency directive, i would just like to say briefly that i am glad that the regulation on quarterly reports - and i differ somewhat from the commission on this - has not come in the form proposed. i think the added value would not have been so great in relation to what would have been created by the additional effort, the additional bureaucracy. i therefore believe that we have done a good job with both directives in this parliament and this week for the european financial centre.
i have to say, madam president, the draft stock exchange transparency directive aims to improve investor protection, boost investor confidence and reduce the cost of capital. the aim is to encourage investment in european financial markets. i support those goals. however, the direction had to be changed a few times. most of my amendments were accepted, peter skinner was willing to compromise so that we could improve the commission's proposal in key areas. an example is the quarterly data in article 6. financial markets need reliable corporate data to function well. investors, however, do not reward the frequency of information, but its quality. quarterly reporting is not a cost or resource burden for smes in particular. i am glad that we have been able to remove article 6 together. a second example is the way in which information about issuers is disseminated. the commission insisted in article 17 that the data relevant to the company should be published but only on the internet and that notifications should be sent exclusively by e-mail. we see it in the european parliament: we are constantly bombarded with e-mails, we have a terrible waste of data. and investors are expected to be willing to work their way through it to get to the quality of the data? i think that's completely impossible. our improvement: print media continue to be given due consideration. they are the form of publication for listed companies. in article 17 we were able to ensure that these printed media were included and, in addition, to delete the passage on the exclusivity of the internet. i'm glad we found a way to do that. the balanced report by mr skinner was rightly adopted by a large majority in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i have recommended to my epp/ed group that we give our overall approval to this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the other day i wanted to fly to china. to do so, i had to apply for a visa and provide a number of highly personal details. in addition, after my flight from frankfurt to beijing, there was a connecting flight scheduled with a chinese airline from beijing to guilin. some of the data would also have been transferred between the different airlines. the chinese state can thus obtain a large amount of personal data. i am not aware, mrs lambert, that there is any data protection law in china. i can't ask who's storing my data, what data is being stored for what purpose, and for how long. i can't file a redress request or contact the chinese data protection officer or sue the government if necessary. we are not, however, stopping air traffic to china or demanding general agreements. now i know there is a big difference, which is that when you fly to the united states, instead of being sent by a push system, the data can be retrieved directly in a pull system. the united states has direct access to our systems and is not limited to the data transmitted to it. and, commissioner, these demands at the moment have nothing to do with a wish list. this is concrete european data protection law. at this point, you also have the duty to switch to a 'push' system. i'd like to hear from you at this point. otherwise, i would appeal to you to be more calm. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the data protection rules are applied in the member states. the united states has a legitimate interest, namely, in this case, the protection of its country. i doubt that other countries can claim this, even though they don't respect our data protection laws. ladies and gentlemen, i have never been to china because i did not send my visa data in time. i had no legal recourse against it either.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the rapporteur. the prodi commission has from the outset been concerned with the comprehensive reform of the management of european finances and the protection of these finances against fraud. we have acted decisively and achieved a great deal. we have based our reform on the report of the group of wise men which parliament set up at the end of the last commission's term of office. the key element is the clear allocation of responsibility. the full responsibility for the proper use of european funds lies with those who manage them. the centralized financial control has been abolished. this step was long overdue. the separation of financial control and policy management was a relic from the time when the european budget was still very small. we now have a structure which is a matter of course in the member states, namely that the individual ministries are responsible for ensuring that their programme funds are spent correctly. the eurostat affair, where accounts outside the budget were created and managed in the 1990s, has once again brought the shortcomings of the previous system to the attention of everyone. however, the commission has retained a central internal audit function. it was assigned to the vice-president of the commission in the summer of 2000 to underline its importance. the creation of olaf, an important new body for combating fraud, has been designed to detect fraud and irregularities by means of administrative investigations, with full independence within the institutions and in the external field. where can you find something similar in the member states? the european union is a pioneer in this area and it is of course gratifying that some of the future member states are taking the structure of olaf as a guide. the commission has supported the establishment and expansion of olaf with a comprehensive and multidisciplinary approach to the fight against fraud. we have thus promoted the development of a culture of prevention by fault-proofing legislation, but also by developing ethical standards for commission staff and clear provisions to protect whistleblowers. we have strengthened operational cooperation with the member states in the fight against fraud. this is essential because the member states manage about 80% of the community budget. olaf is building a genuine service platform for the member states. the 2002 anti-fraud report which is the subject of this report shows that member states have already made greater efforts than in the past to protect eu finances. the convention on the protection of the community's financial interests finally came into force in 2002. but there is still more to be done, and mr bösch's report shows this. the rapporteur has, as is his custom, presented a comprehensive report covering a whole range of different aspects of the fight against fraud. i would like to refer to a point which you, mr rapporteur, have just raised, namely the question of export refunds. it is true that particular attention is needed in the area of export refunds, because there are always several countries involved. in this respect, very strict monitoring is always required. the concentration of exports of live cattle to lebanon, according to the directorate-general of my colleague fischler, is also due to the fact that the european union as a whole has taken more measures to control exports of live cattle. at the beginning of this decade, lebanon and egypt were still the main exporters. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the community. this is the reason for the high concentration in lebanon at the present time. i have of course also asked whether the number of cattle exported there is in any way consistent with the consumption habits of the people there. i was then reassured by the directorate-general for agricultural policy that these figures must of course also be seen in the light of the fact that virtually no pork is consumed in lebanon and that, therefore, the consumption figures for beef are naturally higher than for other sectors. but let me assure you that i fully share your particular attention to the question of animal welfare. in 2003, the commission adopted new rules on the export of live animals and tightened up existing rules. i have received confirmation today from the directorate-general for agriculture that very close checks are being carried out here both in the countries of origin and in the countries of import. i would like to emphasize that the report by the rapporteur, mr bösch, is very critical, as usual. we are all the more pleased that the report expresses appreciation for the commission's action. but that is not the only reason why the commission thanks the rapporteur. the commission has also taken a number of measures to combat fraud in recent years, following requests and suggestions from the committee on budgetary control in particular. this is also true of the improvements and reforms at olaf. the rapporteur, mr bösch, in particular, has been very active in pushing for changes. the amendment to the olaf regulation is now before us. we propose to improve the flow of information between olaf and the commission, to strengthen the procedural guarantees for the persons concerned and to strengthen the role of the olaf monitoring committee. you have just mentioned certain functions of the supervisory committee. in parallel, we have also improved communication on suspected fraud within the commission, in particular between the political level and the services. these were also points raised by the european parliament. we have succeeded in bringing about a fundamental reform of the financial regulation. when i say 'we', i mean parliament too. the new financial regulation not only strengthens budgetary principles but also contains important instruments to combat fraud, to exclude tenders in the event of incorrect information from contractors. transparency international recently praised this as exemplary. the administrative reform has been largely implemented. we have an effective and powerful anti-fraud instrument in olaf. of course, this too must be constantly improved. but what we still need is the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the committee on budgetary control, and in particular its chairman and rapporteur, mr bösch, has been working on this for years. we have fought together in recent years - and very successfully - to ensure that the convention now incorporates the proposal for the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office to protect financial interests in the draft constitution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i would like to point out again that not all the obstacles have been removed, and i believe it is absolutely necessary that all those who have worked for the european public prosecutor's office continue to be careful that it does not fall victim to any compromise. it is necessary to pay close attention to this until june, until the intergovernmental conference.
thank you, mr president. eur 1.8 billion was lost in 2002 through fraud and irregularities. this is a substantial increase of some 36% over the previous year. it is interesting to note that the largest increases were in the area of own resources and structural policy. but that's nothing new. the conclusion is sad, commissioner, and you cannot say it well. you could say the fraud front is going strong. a growth rate of 36% may be desirable in other areas, but it is a disaster in the fight against fraud. it is the oath of office of your four and a half years as commissioner. we must remember that this prodi commission took office in the autumn of 1999 with the self-imposed, full-throated demand: zero tolerance for fraud and irregularities! everything should be different after the fall of the santer commission! and what happened? one scandal has followed the other, so to speak. i remember the chief accountant you suspended after you said that the whole reform was not going as well as you are portraying it as a commissioner. the budgetary regulation has been changed, but i do not think it was in the interests of transparency and clarity of the balance sheet, but rather because of a confusion of rules, so that in effect nobody knows what is going on. you have in fact abolished the independent financial controller, which i think was the cardinal mistake, and instead created an internal audit service which is neither independent nor very attractive, because the head of that audit service will be lost to you in april as well. so he's also running for his life. an accounting system has been revealed which has been rightly apostrophized in the press as 'hole like a swiss cheese' or 'open like a bank vault'. and finally, the eurostat black-box affair and the admitted losses of at least 8 million euros. that is a great balance sheet, madam commissioner. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. but it's like always, you're not guilty. all the responsible commissioners are just twisting and hiding behind the mess of regulations they have created. it is not a question of building trust among the european citizens. but you don't seem to care about that either. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, the european union has been fighting for equal treatment for women and men for almost 50 years and has made great progress in the field of employment, with legislation to ensure equal pay and equal working conditions. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take measures to ensure that the minimum wage is not exceeded. in 2000, the commission announced in its social policy agenda that it would look at discrimination outside the labour market. this idea was supported by the nice european council which called on the commission to strengthen rights related to equality by adopting a proposal for a directive on the basis of article 13 of the treaty. the commission has also been consulted on the drafting of a detailed proposal by the advisory committee on equal opportunities for men and women, which represents all member states and the social partners, as well as by the insurance and other sectors, the european parliament and civil society. you have this proposal in your hands. following the example of the previous directive on racial discrimination, this directive focuses on the key area of access to goods and services, where we have had evidence of unequal treatment of men and women, and where it is known that legislation can change the situation. this directive will therefore mainly cover financial services where women are often required to have a guarantor in order to obtain a loan, whereas men are not. the commission has also taken the initiative in the field of housing, where single-parent families, particularly women, face greater difficulties than men in renting a home, and of course in the insurance sector, particularly in the areas of car insurance, life insurance and pension benefits, and health insurance. the proposal to prohibit discrimination between women and men in access to goods and services is controversial. the council, parliament and society at large. it is controversial because it challenges established ideas about the treatment of men and women, because it argues that there are factors more important than gender in the calculation of premiums, and because it implies that the approach used by most insurance companies today is fundamentally unfair. but this is an important step towards the principle of equal treatment and will change the lives of both men and women throughout the european union.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs and the internal market. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mrs christa prets, in advance. the fight against discrimination based on sex deserves our full support. i think we can all agree on this basic point. this concern should not, however, blind us to the problems raised by the directive. the directive's main focus is on the insurance sector. the commission and many members of this house believe that the calculation of insurance premiums should no longer take account of gender, because this is discriminatory in itself. the majority of the legal affairs committee voted against this approach. because insurance companies calculate risks, and if there are different risks, they may be taken into account. for example, in the case of private pension schemes, insurance companies calculate the amount of pension based on the life expectancy of women compared with men. i think that this is not discrimination per se, but a factor to be taken into account in the calculation of premiums. another example is the automobile insurance sector. statistically speaking, women cause fewer road accidents, so insurance companies charge lower rates for women. i think that's not discriminatory, but it's just math that comes into play here and that shouldn't be overridden by legislation. i would like to make one exception: i believe that there should be no difference between men and women in the cost of motherhood and pregnancy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a balanced way. we have decided to do so in the legal affairs committee. i am against this directive because it represents a massive intrusion into people's private autonomy. i am against the introduction of unisex tariffs and hope that the amendments tabled by our group will also find a majority in the plenary tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we also welcome the commission proposal and the report drawn up by mrs prets on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, although we very much regret that both this report and the commission proposal have fallen far short of expectations and that important areas such as education, the media and advertising are unfortunately left out. we believe, however, that this proposal will give a powerful boost to equality between women and men in the eu. it was too late to eliminate these disparities in services. we could use this report to set a milestone for gender equality policy. the private insurance industry's gestures of menace are hypocritical and dishonest. it is only a panic-mongering operation against consumers and customers. other risk factors - this has already been mentioned - are much more easily quantified. the way you live your life is what determines your life expectancy. we know from studies in the united states that 86 percent of people live the same length of time. no one would think of discriminating on the basis of ethnicity. discrimination on grounds of sex must also be prohibited. it would also be a mockery if we failed to make real progress on this issue, now that we are about to adopt a european constitution in which, as has already been said, equality is a central value of this european community. i do not think that the commission's proposal to introduce a gradual elimination of discrimination is a sign of poverty. we wish we had more. i think it is important to make it clear that we must send a clear signal in the vote for equality and against discrimination. the principle of equality must be given more weight. private insurance companies are bound by that. nor can it be accepted that private insurance is given a competitive advantage over statutory insurance by unacceptable discrimination. i hope that we will become a beacon for gender equality policy in the world, that the eu will set a milestone for such a large economic area and that we will send a clear signal with our vote.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished representatives of the commission! let me begin with a feeling of need to thank the representatives of the commission and the council for the excellent cooperation over the last two years. i have had the opportunity to work on these dossiers with the italian and irish presidencies. i thank you. it was a wonderful and comradely collaboration. what's the matter? the four regulations are an important part of the measures to improve food safety in the european union. the legal acts were drawn up with the aim of replacing 17 directives, making the law more coherent, scientifically based and risk-based. the commission, the council and parliament have agreed on a number of important proposals. i think i did. i think we have created an excellent legal basis. the results can be broken down as follows: first, greater legal certainty. the proposals build on best practice extended by measures to improve food safety, but are, crucially, a new legislative approach. the choice of the legal instrument of the regulation, which is valid throughout the union, was a decisive step towards greater coherence and less bureaucracy. it is very welcome that the commission, the council and parliament have agreed to extend the available part of all the claims. this will give the companies involved greater legal certainty. this is of immense importance in an age of constantly changing demands. the parliament's efforts to limit the scope for amendment of the annexes under the comitology procedure must also be seen as a matter of sound legal certainty. we have found a fairly acceptable arrangement. but i can also assure you that we will be very critical of the use of the comitology procedure for amending the annexes. legal certainty must be the primary concern. but of course we also need flexibility to respond to threats and new situations. i think that's a given. the second principle of the new food safety regulations is in the interest of all concerned. the main new approaches are the introduction of the 'from farm to table' principle, self-monitoring by the companies and the application of the haccp principle and guidelines, as well as greater attention to scientific knowledge. this will involve all the parties involved in the system. the new system also takes account of the nature of the production process and the guarantees offered by the food business operator. the new approach is therefore also characterised by greater flexibility. it is not contrary to the objective of improving food safety to allow for exceptions and derogations. this is only the case for traditional production methods in difficult peripheral areas, i.e. where there are problems due to the peripheral location and in mountainous regions, and of course in supplying local markets. the very different means of production in the eu can be matched. i think it was a wise approach to determine that this should be done only in the light of the risk assessed by the official authority. i would like to mention only in passing that the council and the commission have weakened the 'farm to table' principle by not necessarily applying the haccp principle to primary production. i think that here too we have managed to find a wise solution, leaving it to the member states to decide how they will do it. however, in accordance with this 'low requirement with low risk' approach, we should give small businesses the assurance that the evidence of the results of the haccp principle can be provided in a form acceptable to the company. i refer to recital 15 of common position no 1 on the regulation on food hygiene, which states that the monitoring of critical control points can be replaced by good hygiene practice. i think that this regulation applies in particular to small craft enterprises. the official veterinarian is at the heart of the proposed system of official control of meat production. it shall carry out checks and inspections to ensure that all parties concerned comply with the provisions of the relevant legislation. the official veterinarian must have at his disposal the means of enforcing the requirements. this also means that the legal texts provide for clear possibilities for decision-making. it is therefore important that parliament has included the basic tasks of official control in article 3. the veterinarian and official auxiliaries must also demonstrate a high level of competence. i think that is right. but this requires - and we are already seeing this - a change in veterinary training in some member states. the commission should also take action quickly to ensure that there is sufficient staff to meet the full range of requirements. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. the authorities are clearly unable, with the current staffing levels, to carry out three checks on a company's eligibility criteria within six months. another requirement for the official authority is the implementation of an integrative control activity. it is no longer enough to focus on enforcing legal provisions. the involvement of businesses in food safety matters also requires greater flexibility from the official authority. the entrepreneur should see himself as a partner and be seen as such. this cannot be prescribed in the text of the law, but the foundations for greater food safety through cooperation are laid. the participation of slaughterhouse staff in official controls has been a contentious issue for a long time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are various reasons for this. for example, they say that this regulation is not improving food safety - that has always been our approach - but the opposite is being achieved. the regulation on official controls on feed and food requires independence in the delegation of official controls. the plant staff are dependent on the manager. the training of the farm staff is binding on the veterinarian and thus hinders his control activities. the cost question remains: are the entrepreneurs really saving on the cost of the investigation? i don't think he did. all the calculations prove otherwise. i think, ladies and gentlemen of the council, that we should come to an understanding here so that perhaps in two or three years we can come back to this and try to get some clarification. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we should take advantage of the result and pass these regulations without further discussion during this parliamentary term. they are an important basis for food safety. i would like to repeat my opening remarks, since the commissioner has just arrived: thank you very much, and your staff, for the excellent cooperation you have shown in drawing up the legal texts. i think it is a good job and we will be a big step closer to our goal of improving food safety in europe.
commission. mr president, may i first express my thanks for all the hard work done by members of the committees concerned with the proposals on food hygiene. almost four years have gone by since the commission presented this package. i would therefore like to remind you of the objectives that were envisaged when we put forward this recast of the hygiene rules. in summary, we are pursuing four objectives. the first objective is to adapt hygiene legislation to the general principles of food law set out in the white paper on food safety. the second objective is to make the existing rules more science- and risk-based. the third objective is to define the role of the competent authorities; and the fourth objective is to consolidate and simplify the regulatory environment. the discussions on the package have taken a long time, both in council and in parliament. this is not surprising, taking into account the wide interests covered by the proposals and their highly technical nature. this long period gave ample time to reflect on the proposals and the time is now ripe to conclude the debate and adopt the legislation. the council's common position is, in the commission's view, a fair compromise that clearly reflects the views of parliament. i was pleased to hear that the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs have recognised this fact. nevertheless, a number of amendments were tabled for the second reading. with a view to addressing the points set out in these amendments, the commission has contributed to the establishment of a compromise between the council's position and that of parliament. discussions on such a compromise were successfully completed and coreper has already endorsed it. amendments reflecting this compromise package have also been tabled for the vote later today. i am concerned, however, lest there be a desire to cherry-pick the compromise negotiated with the council. a compromise requires that all parties make concessions. this relates in particular to the involvement of slaughterhouse staff in meat inspection for veal and pigs. the common position, approved unanimously by the council, foresees the possibility of slaughterhouse staff carrying out some inspection tasks. the commission believes this is appropriate. it is not, as some say, a privatisation of meat inspection. it only allows the slaughterhouse staff to assist the official veterinarian. there is no general authorisation for involving slaughterhouse staff in meat inspection. subsidiarity is the guiding principle here. the decision as to whether to apply the system will be taken by the member states on a case-by-case basis. moreover, the proposed regulation contains a number of very strict rules that guarantee the independence of the controls. these include in particular that the slaughterhouse staff involved in meat inspection must be independent from production staff and must report directly to the official veterinarian. slaughterhouses that wish to involve their staff in meat inspection must be specifically authorised for that purpose by the competent authority. i would like to stress that the system has already functioned satisfactorily for more than ten years for poultry meat and rabbit meat in most member states. no complaints have been registered and no misuse has been reported on this. taking account of these elements, the proposal to extend the system to veal and fattening pigs is proportionate and fully in line with the objectives of the proposed legislation i outlined to you a couple of minutes ago. the commission is willing to go along with the compromise proposal put forward by the council that would defer the entry into force of the system for another three years. this is reflected in amendment no 21 to the proposal on official controls. the commission cannot, however, support amendments nos 9 and 14, which the rapporteur is recommending that parliament support. should these amendments be adopted, conciliation would appear inevitable. this would be a pity, particularly having regard to the length of time – since july 2000 – that these proposals have been under consideration. to conclude, i would like to reiterate my gratitude to all those who have contributed to reaching this stage. the commission can accept all amendments to the common position that are part of the compromise package negotiated with the council. the commission cannot support amendments falling outside this package. a full listing setting out the details on this will be made available to parliament's secretariatcommission's position on amendments by parliament: see annex..
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr horst schnellhardt, who has negotiated very diligently over many years, and i would also like to do so on behalf of the epp group. i believe that with the results we have, we have taken a step towards greater food security in europe. it is also important that when food crosses the border, we can tell citizens that they can trust that this food is safe and that there are no health risks. but we have also achieved - at least better than the original commission proposal - that the proposals are feasible. i would like to draw attention to a very specific point in the first schnellhardt report on general food hygiene. the haccp concept is a very good concept for large companies. large companies with many employees, possibly even in several member states, must document and record exactly who has had a product in their hands at what time. i had a difficult time from the beginning to apply this concept to very small businesses, because if we have only two or three employees in a restaurant or a pastry shop, we don't need written documentation to determine who has handled the product, and where damage might have occurred. the oral information is sufficient here, and that is why we have been very insistent in the negotiations on the need for the obligation to provide documentation for small businesses to be relaxed in line with the risk associated with this production. we think that for very small companies, documentation is not necessary at all. that would be practical. we would not be doing any harm to consumer protection, but we would be ensuring that small businesses in particular can apply the rules properly. the result is not exactly what we would have wanted. but we have made compromises on many points, particularly in the first report, and that is why we can support the reports in good conscience.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is good that in future the requirements of animal welfare will be met more effectively by reducing transport times and improving transport conditions. but far more important is a significant reduction in the transport of animals themselves. if this were really in the interests of animals, it would also make it more difficult for dangerous animal diseases to spread and reduce the environmental impact of co2 emissions. most people consider it uncivilized that animals are driven hundreds or even thousands of miles across europe and the world for slaughter. they rightly demand that the animals be transported to the nearest slaughterhouses and marketed there. after all, frozen meat is much easier to deliver to remote areas. carriage of slaughter animals should be limited to four hours. within this time, almost every farm in europe can be reached from a slaughterhouse. the report justifies the transnational transport of animals by the unequal distribution of supply and demand, which is due to geographical and historical circumstances. that is an assessment i cannot accept. the commission has also found that the aid granted to the beneficiaries was compatible with the internal market. the main cause is the policy of liberalization and concentration which destroys regional cycles. as long as this policy is in force, all that is to be done to protect animals during transport is mere aftercare and not precautions. the report also states that the priority of slaughter close to the place of production, financial support for local slaughterhouses and the use of mobile slaughterhouses are wishful thinking and cannot be realised in the european union of 25 member states. the reality is different. the trend towards mergers in the slaughter industry continues. the distances of animal transport are increasing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new species. the effectiveness of all methods should be re-examined. the aim of this report is to promote regional economic cycles. i can therefore say, and i must say, that it is entirely new in this respect.
so i very much agree, mr president, that i am the first to be on time. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. firstly, i think we should not play the same petty game here at every meeting, namely to refer again to the supply of goods from the west bank to the european union. that is a matter for discussion, and we had a whole debate on that last time. but if these goods were supplied by the palestinians, they would receive the same preferential treatment from the european union, and it is therefore absurd to burden such a serious issue as this conflict with such trivialities. secondly, everyone in this parliament condemns the illegal executions carried out by israel. this is not in accordance with international law and there is no need to discuss this issue. it is good that we, as the european union, are saying this clearly and unambiguously. and by the way, a lot of americans say that's not okay. that is why we do not always have to create a conflict between france and the united states on this issue. henry kissinger said it very clearly this weekend. but what we have to do is something a little more demanding, and that is to start a dialogue with the arab world now. it is not reassuring, of course, that the arab summit is being cancelled these days, that it cannot take place because there is no agreement on a declaration which includes the words democracy, parliament and civil society, and which mentions women's rights and democratic reform. we must also make our partners south of the mediterranean speak with greater clarity about our fundamental convictions if we are to reach a comprehensive solution. and those who are always saying these words very loudly in this house should say them to the arab world. we do this to israel. this is a democracy. we can also make a lot of assumptions about him, and i think that's right too. but we should develop a broader perspective on the middle east. and that also requires a dialogue with the arab world on our basic principles. otherwise we'll never come to a solution.
council. mr president, we were all shocked at the eruption of ethnically motivated violence in kosovo on 17 and 18 march. the latest outbreak resulted in death and injury and the displacement of 3000 people. it also resulted in the destruction of places of worship, hospitals and schools which were deliberately targeted in an attack on our shared vision of a multi-ethnic kosovo. while the situation in kosovo has stabilised since 18 march, it remains very tense. the kfor international peacekeeping force has been strengthened significantly in response to the violence. i pay tribute to the efforts of all who worked hard to stabilise the situation and to restore calm in kosovo. i would also like to offer my condolences and those of the council to all who have once again suffered loss of life, injury and loss of loved ones. the general affairs and external relations council, on 22 march, and the european council, on 26 march, condemned the violence, loss of life, the damage to property and the destruction of religious and cultural heritage in kosovo. the full commitment of the european union to the development of a secure, democratic and multi-ethnic kosovo, in line with un security council resolution 1244 has been reaffirmed once again. the european union strongly supports the special representative of the united nations secretary-general in kosovo, harri holkeri, the united nations mission in kosovo and kfor in their determined efforts to stabilise the situation and to ensure the full implementation of security council resolution 1244. i would like to underscore the strong support of the european union for the united nations policy of standards before status. that policy, together with security council resolution 1244, remains the foundation of the international community’s commitment to kosovo. the european union is considering how it can strengthen its role in support of the un standards before status policy. the recent violent events have risked undermining the painstakingly achieved progress that has been made to date. it is important now that we assert the primacy of politics in kosovo and ensure that there is no further descent into ethnic violence. the explosion of sectarianism would be to the detriment of all in kosovo. it is clear that the future of the people of that country lies in the eventual integration of the countries of the western balkans into the european union structures, as agreed at the eu-western balkans summit in june 2003. the implementation of the un standards before status policy is the key to achieving that goal. however, the issue of final status in kosovo can only be addressed once sufficient progress has been made on the implementation and review of standards. despite the recent violence and the continuing tensions, this will have to include the resumption of the process of dialogue on practical matters between belgrade and pristina. as this house is aware, at the request of the general affairs and external relations council, high representative solana visited kosovo on 24 march. commissioner patten accompanied him on the visit. they took with them a clear message. political leaders in kosovo, especially the kosovo albanian leadership, need to take responsibility for the situation and ensure that there is no repeat of ethnically motivated violence, or of threats of such violence. those responsible for the violence must be brought to justice. kosovo’s provisional institutions of self-government must demonstrate their commitment to a multi-ethnic kosovo. last week’s european council called on them to take an immediate step in this direction by allocating resources for the urgent reconstruction of damaged property, including places of worship, to ensure that internally displaced persons can return safely to their homes. i welcome the allocation by the provisional institutions of eur 5 million to assist with reconstruction, and the unanimous declaration of the kosovo assembly on 26 march to condemn the recent violence. welcome as they are, words are not enough. it is time to see real efforts to reach across ethnic divisions so that a kosovo in which all can live peaceably and in security is created. to this end, political leaders in kosovo must now work more closely with the united nations mission in kosovo and with kfor for the protection of the rights of all sections of the population, including members of minority communities. what has happened in kosovo over the past few weeks is a reminder to us all of the importance of the role that the european union plays, not just in kosovo, but in the wider region. the european union has taken the lead role in working with the countries of the western balkans to consolidate peace and stability in the region, and to promote economic development and the respect for human rights and the rule of law. european union assistance in the region in support of those objectives will amount to eur 4.65 billion over the period 2000-2006. the union, including its member states, continues to be the most important source of funding for the international efforts in kosovo. moreover, european union member states make the largest troop contributions to kfor. the development of ever closer relations with the western balkans is a priority for the european union. since last year’s thessaloniki summit, the european union and the countries of the western balkans have a shared agenda for progress. the objective of eventual integration will be pursued through the stabilisation and association process and through implementation of the series of agreements which brought an end to the tragic conflicts of the past 13 years. in the case of kosovo, the stabilisation and association process tracking mechanism initiated by the european commission in the spring of 2003 is designed to facilitate kosovo’s progress within the stabilisation and association process, bringing kosovo within the embrace of the european family. our efforts to promote the european perspective of kosovo and the united nations policy of implementing standards are mutually reinforcing policies. the stabilisation and association process challenges the democratically elected governments of the region to adopt and implement difficult and wide-ranging economic and political reforms, and to continue to strengthen regional cooperation. the rate of progress of the countries of the region towards european integration is to a great extent in their own hands, although the european union will support them fully in this endeavour. both sides of the relationship made commitments at thessaloniki which must be implemented fully. those responsible for the recent violence in kosovo must be brought to justice. there should be no wall of silence, there should be no culture of impunity. it is time to move forward, away from the hurt and the anger which have blighted kosovo’s politics for so long. the path to take has been mapped out by the united nations, in its standards before status policy. i would like to repeat the council’s support for special representative holkeri, for his united nations colleagues, and for kfor, in their determination to stabilise the situation and to ensure the implementation of security council resolution 1244 in full. it is the responsibility of all, but particularly of kosovo’s leaders, to support the work already in train to ensure a stable future for a secure, democratic, prosperous and multi-ethnic kosovo, with its place in europe. the european union is ready to help in the achievement of this goal. it is up to the people in kosovo now to take up the offers made.
commission. mr president, i am extremely glad to have the opportunity to speak to the house today about kosovo. as the presidency noted, i went with mr javier solana to kosovo last week, because of our concern about the recent upsurge in violence. during those terrible days and nights, a very large number of homes were destroyed, together with schools, medical facilities and a large number of churches. the latest reports suggest that 22 people were killed and more than 850 injured, including police and kfor members. there is little doubt that although there may have been an initial trigger for the violence, it quickly became organised. i also have no doubt that elements within the main albanian political parties were involved. we should remember that europe rightly took a stand against the disgraceful ethnic cleansing by milosevic in 1999. since then, the international community has spent eur 2 billion – not including defence costs – to try to rebuild kosovo. we did not do that in order to see kosovar serbs being ethnically cleansed in their turn. let me share with the house my reflections on my visit to kosovo. i have to say that the high representative and i were extremely disappointed. we saw at first hand the anger and upset of serbs in a suburb of pristina called kosovo polje. we were looking for evidence that kosovar albanian leaders understood those feelings. there was precious little sign of it. on the contrary, there was an attempt to blame everyone but themselves for what had happened. there was one exception to this. the prime minister, mr rexhepi, rose to the occasion. he showed considerable courage in visiting trouble spots to try to defuse tensions. he also immediately understood the responsibility of the provisional institutions of self-government to put right the terrible wrongs that were done to kosovar serbs. before we arrived, he had decided to set up a reconstruction fund with an initial budget of eur 5 million. he understood that it was the duty of his government to put things right, not the responsibility of the international community. i did not go to pristina to promise that european taxpayers’ money would be used instead. that would be completely unacceptable. mr rexhepi promised that rapid action would be taken to repair damaged property so that people could get back to their homes as quickly as possible. mr solana and i promised to go back through the summer so that we could see for ourselves that progress on reconstruction is actually occurring. what are the priorities now? nato has reacted swiftly to increase troop numbers in order to provide better security. this has had an immediate effect on calming tensions in kosovo, although we have to remain extremely vigilant about the situation. next, unmik police are trying as quickly as possible to identify those responsible for these attacks so that they can be taken out of circulation and punished. it is incumbent on the leaders of the albanian political parties to purge their ranks of such people. next, there needs to be an investigation of the role played by the kosovo police service in the disturbances. there were reports that some members of the police service did their duty well, but there have also been reports of police service members either taking no action to prevent these attacks or, worse still, participating in them. unmik is determined to get to the bottom of what actually happened. next, we have to be quite clear that we stand fully behind unmik. there were clear signs of organised attacks on unmik property and staff. that is completely unacceptable. the european union strongly supports the un as an institution. we cannot tolerate attacks on the un, whether in kosovo or anywhere else. we also need to work very closely with our united states partners. mr solana and i had a very constructive meeting with marcie ries, the american representative in pristina. we all agreed that we needed to make it absolutely clear to the kosovars that we are at one in our reaction to these events. finally, it is absolutely essential that the political leaderships in belgrade and pristina refrain from provocative statements which can only serve to exacerbate tensions. final status discussions are for another day. last week’s declaration by the serbian parliament insisting on permanent sovereignty for serbia and a system of cantons inside kosovo was extremely unhelpful, to say the least. so were statements by kosovar albanian leaders in the immediate aftermath of the violence that they would not accept anything short of independence. it is always tempting after horrible events like these to conclude that we should rip up our strategy and come up with a new plan. i must be absolutely clear with the house on this: i do not believe that we can give up on our insistence on a multi-ethnic kosovo in which all ethnic groups can live freely and without fear. nor do i believe that we should abandon the idea of standards before status. on the other hand, we should not send a signal that final status discussions will be delayed indefinitely. that would risk a grave worsening of tension. nothing that happened earlier this month can change the geography of kosovo. we all have a shared interest in making sure that kosovo does not become a black hole in the middle of south-east europe, where organised crime flourishes and ethnic division is entrenched. we have to go on working patiently for the long-term future. whatever kosovo’s final status, its future lies in europe. however, the standards we insist that kosovo should implement and live up to do not include the speed at which you can burn down your neighbours' home, or how quickly you can trash the school or the hospital that your neighbours go to. we have to make it absolutely clear that violence is not a shortcut to anything, and that if people follow leaders who espouse violence they are following those leaders into a future of poverty and criminality – not a future with the rest of europe. i hope that point will be understood and that the community will turn its back on violence and move towards stability, prosperity, multi-ethnicity, pluralism and democracy.
the commission has already done so. if i am honest, the situation in kosovo fills me with sadness and at the same time with helplessness. we fought a war in 1999 to stop the expulsion and oppression of the albanians in kosovo. i was in favour, having visited the country and its people since 1990, witnessing the terrible torture and other things that the apartheid regime itself has experienced. i was naive enough to think that everything would be better after that. i could not imagine that the same albanians who suffered all this would now inflict the same injustice on fellow citizens of other nationalities - serbs, roma, ashkali. they did, most recently with obviously planned and criminal violence. with many dead, with refugees, with violations of cultural heritage. we must also add that they have then taken action against hospitals, schools which we probably helped finance, kfor and unmik. whoever's behind this is obvious. i think the ordinary albanian people know that too. the protest and the distancing of the albanian leadership was not loud enough and not convincing enough for me. this terrible act of violence has set kosovo back a long way. does it want to join the eu as mr patten said? the criminals there don't want to be in the eu, they don't want civilized coexistence. they want unrest, because in unrest they can have room for corruption and crime. now we're all facing a pile of wreckage. the international community has not, in my view, been sufficiently consistent in its efforts to bring back the serbs who want to return, with all the accompanying measures that this requires. i don't want to go back to an enclave, and i don't want to be protected by kfor all the time. that's why some things haven't been done here. we have to think about it! the belgrade government has deliberately prevented local serbs from taking an active part in shaping kosovo. it has established parallel structures for fear that serb participation in kosovo would be a sealing of kosovo's independence. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i don't think that "standard before status" is the only way. he's been leading us on the wrong path. it has to be "standard and status". we must now begin to resolve the status issues. without a reliable vision of the future, the explosive in kosovo cannot be controlled. 60% of the population is young, 50% of them unemployed. how are we to cope with this when leaders come along who are constantly inciting because the future of kosovo is not clear? we should consider whether we cannot push privatisation and business promotion further and, as in the case of milosevic in serbia - analogous to the oil for democracy plan - provide financial aid for jobs offered to albanians and serbs. so financial aid for that. i believe that the eu could be useful in this respect. the un must hand over a greater share of its responsibility to the government in kosovo, and belgrade must finally put an end to the parallel structures. and then the albanians and serbs must finally realize that they can only govern this country together, and that they can only come to europe together with a peaceful country, with peaceful coexistence. otherwise, our help is really pointless.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the recent events in kosovo have once again shown how fragile peace is in the balkans, and the question of the causes is raised. let us remember: almost exactly five years ago, nato began bombing yugoslavia without declaring war. although all the participants in the helsinki act had committed themselves to recognition of the territorial status quo in europe, the federal republic was systematically divided along ethnic lines by internal and external forces, with the frg playing a pioneering role in the recognition of slovenia and croatia by its foreshortening. the rapid disintegration of the federal republic of yugoslavia did not bring an end to the conflict but rather triggered new tensions, which are now being turned into bloody conflicts in kosovo. what was announced five years ago as an antidote to ethnic cleansing is turning into its opposite. thousands of serbian families have been expelled from a province which is still legally part of serbia, mainly by paramilitary forces of the kla, which was once classified as a terrorist organisation by the united states. it is also very strange that during his visit, the foreign minister, mr solana, described the situation to the remaining serbs by saying: 'you would have to be brave and have the courage to overcome these difficulties.' there are crimes, and they must be treated as such. the eu must have the courage to be more resolute in its support for a long-term, complex political solution for kosovo, but also for the whole of the balkans.
commission. mr president, i am very glad that the european parliament was able to deliver an opinion on the commission's proposal on feed hygiene for this part-session. despite the fact that the commission's proposal was adopted in april 2003, i know that the work in parliament only began last autumn and therefore i want to congratulate mrs keppelhoff-wiechert for her hard work on this report in such a short period of time. the absence of clear, enforceable rules for feed hygiene is one of the final major 'missing links' to complete our 'farm to fork' food safety approach. i shall briefly refer to three main points of the proposal. first, it provided for the compulsory registration of all feed business establishments by the competent authorities within the member states. secondly, it aimed to raise hygiene standards through the introduction of hazard analysis critical control points – haccp – principles for feed business operators at all levels other than that of primary production. the proposal also envisaged that feed business operators would provide financial guarantees to cover business-related risks such as the costs arising from withdrawing products from the market. i am pleased that there has been close cooperation between parliament, council and commission to seek a workable compromise with a view to reaching a first reading agreement in relation to this proposal.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner byrne, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i have followed the debate on this subject in two committees, as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, which is the lead committee, and also in the advisory committee on agriculture and rural development. and i would like to say in this context that as rapporteur on the abovementioned subject of feed hygiene, i welcome in principle the commission's efforts to further improve food safety in the eu as a whole. from the barn to the plate, the criteria for the production of our food should be very clearly defined. the scandals in the feed sector in recent years, such as bse, dioxin and nitrophen, have cost european taxpayers a lot of money in the form of product recalls. and that is why i very much welcome the fact that in future, with the regulation proposed, the european financial pot as a whole will not be called upon to pay for recalls, as mr byrne says, but the individual feed manufacturers will be asked to pay much more strictly. so it is not the taxpayer who should pay for it, but the black sheep themselves. but i think that the term 'feed manufacturer' must therefore be defined very precisely in the regulation. i am not disputing the fact that the farmer who produces cereals or other primary foodstuffs should not be forced to take out compulsory insurance. the receiving hand in the compound feed industry is already able to analyse and classify barley, rye, maize, etc. delivered. the smallest producer of feed for supply or for his own feeding on the farm should, in my view, be exempted from this regulation, and i am always told that this is the case. however, if the additives are mixed by the farmer himself or by the compound feed manufacturer or the mobile mill that comes to the farm and mixes the additives, this regulation applies. it is not acceptable that, in the interests of preventive insurance, regulations are now being created which in fact are not to be observed in some cases. i still think that we should only make political demands that do not override the realities of life. this applies in particular to limit values for undesirable substances in mixtures, intrusions, etc., which are increasingly based on analytical feasibility. i repeat: if a piece of sugar cubes is detected in lake constance, it has nothing to do with health protection. increasingly, limit values are being aligned with the possibilities of modern analytics rather than with the potential for hazards. we should concentrate on the real danger to consumers. without a clear definition of risk, financial guarantees become a totally incalculable cost, which is very difficult for insurance companies to map. and they made that clear to us at the hearing in the committee on agriculture and rural development. i would appeal to producers to start with a voluntary insurance. that is why, commissioner, in article 8, i, as rapporteur, asked for a feasibility study to be submitted on a guarantee, whether it be a binding or a non-binding guarantee. and when we have that in 12 months, we can certainly move on. the aim of this feasibility study is not only to examine existing national rules, systems and practices on liability in the feed sector and related areas, but also to identify new ways of establishing a feasible and workable guarantee system at european level. so once again, we should only make political demands that we can actually put into practice. i should like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks to all the colleagues who have worked on this matter in a serious and constructive manner. i would also like to thank the commission representatives in particular, for the very good discussions we had. and i also thank the irish presidency for the good cooperation and in particular for the very realistic assessment of what is possible and what is not. and i am curious to see how things go, whether we can actually reach an agreement after the first reading.
commission. mr president, allow me once again to underline my appreciation of mrs thors' excellent work, and to welcome the progress that has been made. after only three months of fruitful collaboration between the three institutions, we are very close today to a first reading agreement. if this is achieved, it will certainly be a record in terms of time. mrs thors in her earlier contribution made reference to the near completion of the work that we have been undertaking – the necessity to put in place the legislation referred to in the white paper on food safety. i am happy to say that we have nearly completed that work. perhaps we can reflect and congratulate ourselves on our hard work over the last four and a half years when we have worked well together to achieve these results. i understand parliament’s wish to accelerate the commission’s proposal on recycled plastics. i also appreciate the clarifications provided on certain aspects, notably on traceability, the authorisation procedure and the provisions on active and intelligent packaging. to conclude, i am pleased to accept the entire compromise package. i think i am correct in saying that this is mrs thors' last report, so let me congratulate her on it and on her work in parliament and wish her well in her future career.
in writing. food from the world's most diverse countries is certainly an asset on the shelves of our markets. the consumer, however, wants to be confident in the safety and quality of the products. we must create the conditions for this. as rapporteur for the epp-ed group, i welcome the revision of the framework directive 89/109/eec and thank mrs thors for her good work as rapporteur. the epp-ed group has called for some crucial improvements to make packaging even safer in the future and thus contribute to safer food. the proposed labelling system with the indication 'suitable for food contact' or the symbol of the stylized glass and fork is welcomed. however, we ask for an exception for articles where there is no doubt that they are designed for food contact (e.g. cups, glasses, etc.). this will avoid excessive bureaucracy. we also welcome the extension of the principle of traceability to the substances used. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is technically not possible, as it is always a mixture. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for the good cooperation he has shown, and of course the other colleagues who are here. i think we have finally got a good line on this, particularly with regard to the question of air conditioning in cars. we must do something about this, and i say to the spectators: what was agreed in kyoto is legally binding within the european union. the 2002 decision and the decision of 10 march this year mean that this applies in the european union, whether russia ratifies or not. we must do something about that. i think the facts are on the table. first, the air conditioning in cars is increasing. they have 80 percent of all new vehicles, and they lose about 8 to 10 percent of the greenhouse gases per year. secondly, there are alternatives of various kinds that are being developed. i think it's absolutely clear that we need to go down the path of addressing alternatives that are as safe as possible with as little greenhouse potential as possible. third, this alternative is actually a co2-based air conditioner with a greenhouse potential 1,300 times less than the greenhouse potential we have now. fourthly, i think we must take the same approach as we take to the type approval of new cars, because the design, the energy of the engineers, is important, and we must demand new air conditioning systems as quickly as possible. fifthly, the co2-based air conditioners are european technologies, european products. i think it is also clear that the air conditioning of the future, if we go down this road away from f-gases to co2-based air conditioning, is in fact no longer a climate killer, but that an air conditioning of the future can also be a job killer for european jobs.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on civil liberties and justice and home affairs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it is not true that mrs wallström says she is implementing the aarhus convention. in fact, it goes far beyond århus in the draft directive on access to the courts. the only requirement of århus is to open access to administrative or alternatively judicial proceedings. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. this is to apply to all environmental law, that is to say to the whole body of legislation defined in the community as protecting or improving the environment, including human health and the protection of the rational use of natural resources. the following are listed as examples: water protection, noise protection, soil protection, air pollution, land use planning, biotechnology, etc. this gives environmental organisations a universal right to complain and to monitor the implementation of the law. this is nothing more or less than a system change in the implementation and control of legislation in most member states in europe. this gives private organizations a right to monitor the authorities, and they are elevated to the status of representatives of the general public. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the environmental organizations are, after all, interest groups like any other, which have no democratic legitimacy and are not bound by law and order in their actions. the mandatory introduction of such a dramatically expanded association action will have massive economic implications and is in no way compatible with the lisbon objectives. that is why the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has confined itself to saying: århus must be implemented, but at the minimum standard. and if member states want to go beyond that, that is their decision. we should leave it at that, and that is why i can only hope, mrs wallström, that the council will stop your initiative decisively.
commission. mr president, i should like to thank mr manders. this is the first time i have had an offer of a date through the european parliament plenary, or at least an invitation to a drink. thank you for that, mr manders, and thank you for your good work on the environmental liability file! you are absolutely right that we have been waiting a long time for this to come true. i also want to thank parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee under the chairmanship of vice-president imbeni, because the positive spirit which animated parliament's delegation throughout this conciliation enabled us to find a satisfactory overall compromise: the joint text before you today, which has been approved by the conciliation committee. thanks to this new directive, a comprehensive framework whereby environmental damage would be prevented or remedied through a system of environmental liability will be put in place for the first time. this new system will be a valuable benefit for the citizens and the environment of an enlarged union. i am very pleased with the result that has been achieved by the co-legislators. we all wanted this directive to be an ambitious and workable piece of legislation, and finding a balanced compromise in such a technically complex and politically sensitive subject was certainly not easy. i think that the text before you will constitute a significant step forward towards better environmental protection in europe. the contribution of this new directive to the conservation of biological diversity in europe, through its application to protected species and natural habitats, is just one example of the many gains made possible by this directive. thank you again, mr manders.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr toine manders, in advance. the commission has also made a very good case for the environmental liability directive in the conciliation procedure, as it has shown on many occasions in the past. for that, again, my dear toine manders, i thank you very much, and for your good personal cooperation. the environmental liability directive has been a long-standing concern of parliament and has generated considerable, controversial debate. the commission has already expressed doubts as to whether the directive could be adopted before the new elections or before enlargement. i am all the more pleased as rapporteur for the epp group that with tomorrow's approval - i hope that the outcome of the conciliation procedure will be adopted here tomorrow - the directive can become a reality. this is a great day for environmental protection in the european union. the directive will provide for the first time a compensation for damage to protected species and habitats, the so-called pure ecological damage. for the first time, there will also be a community-wide liability system. this is a long overdue liability loophole being closed in the interests of the environment. in this sense, my group expressly welcomes the outcome of the conciliation procedure. but it is also important for my group that the conciliation procedure has produced a satisfactory result. as i said in the first reading - and the saying was taken up by my colleague lord inglewood, who will speak later - the better is the enemy of the good. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner. my group has always opposed such compulsory insurance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the system is properly operated. a calculation is not possible at present, particularly for the pure ecological damage mentioned at the outset. the conciliation committee, together with the council and the commission, addressed these concerns. so there will be no compulsory insurance for the time being. the commission is instead asked to present an evaluation report six years after the entry into force of the directive and will then decide on new approaches, if appropriate. i think this is the right way. i hope that the commission will be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union is able to take action in this area.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to thank my colleague, mr toine manders, very warmly for the careful and collegial way in which we have conducted this conciliation procedure. i think that's what led us to a conclusion. i must say, however, on behalf of the social democrats that the result is not very satisfactory for us social democrats, because we would have liked to have seen much stricter enforcement of the polluter pays principle and also a provision for cover that is mandatory and comes immediately. but it was not possible to win through this conciliation procedure because the majorities in the european parliament are simply different from what we would have needed. this, of course, has implications for the legislative process. the socialist group will nevertheless be in favour of this compromise, because we have achieved a number of things which can be regarded as a first step in the right direction. firstly, we have succeeded in getting the commission to submit a report on the availability of the reserve within six years. the commission has also undertaken - and this is very important - to submit proposals for a system of harmonised compulsory insurance, as requested by parliament. i think that was one of the basic conditions for our agreement. i think this is also important, because it does not simply leave the development of a single european pension and liability system to the market, but it is concretized and steered in a sensible direction from the outset. the second reason why we will agree is that we have succeeded in getting the commission to examine the current possibility of limiting liability for maritime transport, as provided for in international conventions. the report also examines the relationship between the liability of ship owners and the contributions of crude oil customers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's maritime transport system is not affected by the disasters. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. i see mr. manders is nodding. he would have wanted more, i know that. but it was not possible. so it's a first step. we will not fail to ensure that these steps towards a proper solution continue in the future.
the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking the european parliament, and in particular the committee on the environment and the rapporteur, mr sjöstedt, for the work he has put into his report at first reading. waste from extraction can have a composition and volume that pose a serious threat to the environment and human health if not managed properly. this was demonstrated in the major accidents at aznalcóllar in spain in 1998 and also at baia mare in romania in 2000, when dams containing processing waste burst, releasing large quantities of toxic substances and leading to major environmental, economic and social impacts. the proposal aims to introduce eu-wide rules to prevent pollution of water and soil from long-term storage in ponds or processing waste sites. the stability of final storage facilities must also be guaranteed in order to prevent accidents from occurring or to limit the possible consequences of accidents. the appropriate management of waste from extraction will be ensured throughout the eu thanks to the proposed directive in conjunction with the amended seveso ii directive on the prevention and reduction of the consequences of major accidents involving dangerous substances and a document on best available techniques for the management of stone and processing waste ponds. the commission shares the views expressed that the proposal should have a sufficiently wide scope and that some exemptions, such as those concerning waste from exploration, should therefore be removed. in view of this, the exemptions for inert waste should not be extended to all non-hazardous waste, as this would weaken the proposal. pollution from mines can be a problem, to be sure. however, this proposal, which concerns waste, cannot regulate it. as regards historical waste, the commission supports the amendments which require the most polluted areas to be inventoried. we believe, however, that it is for the member states to decide on their remediation. we also support the amendments which stress the need to plan closure appropriately from the design of waste facilities. i would like to conclude by pointing out that the commission is seeking a directive which is sufficiently comprehensive to be able to achieve these important environmental objectives.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in an orderly, clean and environmentally friendly europe, waste policy is of particular concern, and tonight it is the mining waste. we seek and exploit the earth's resources, which we use and use for our lives. they are treasures of varying value, and use value is crucial. but the question is: is all that which we do not use or recycle at the moment really in the category of waste? i don't think he did. good soil, soil and overhanging mountains are cleared to reach the materials that lie deeper. they are transported and later poured back out on the cleared areas, and they guarantee that fertile fields or fields will be produced again, so, as before, good soil. it was the definition of waste that made the discussions in the european parliament in committee so difficult. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has made a very clear statement in its report, the sjöstedt report, in favour of a definition such as we already have in the waste framework directive. we are in favour of proper management and disposal of real waste, contaminated material or rock. the term "deck mountains and topsoil" is used in german to describe recyclable materials which are important elsewhere. without them, mine shafts could not be properly filled and without topsoil, recultivation would not be possible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in a way that is not harmful to the environment. it is therefore right that this dismantling and re-cultivation should be incorporated into the plans by contract as soon as the work begins. security benefits are specified here. such guarantees must be both secure and flexible. the member states are obliged to define the criteria and the commission must then approve them. the sins of the past are also a cause of anxiety. the mines that have not been properly closed, the dumps that have been opened up - we are talking about what is called historical waste. it is important and right that we should speak out for inventory and for elimination. but we need longer deadlines. we need standards that can be met and implemented. the rapporteur does not go far enough in amendments nos 71 and 72. a directive on mining waste does not have to repeat and re-enact everything that is already regulated in other directives of the european union. this concerns the landfill directive, the water framework directive and the waste framework directive. in conclusion, i would like to stress that all our efforts must be geared towards sustainability. environmental, economic and social aspects must be balanced. this applies to the approval of plants as well as to the requirements in waste management plans and to the restructuring of plants.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm sorry i was late. but that is because we are not dealing with mining waste only these days, but we are dealing with our reach system, our chemicals policy, again, even in the run-up to the next election. i just had an evening with basf, a large chemical company, which i've now left behind to be here. the socialist group is very pleased with the legislation we have now on waste from the extractive industries. we need uniform standards in europe for the management of this waste. this will lead to a further approximation of the conditions of competition for businesses in the member states, and at the same time there will be an improvement in the living and environmental conditions for our citizens. the committee discussed the definition of waste and the financial guarantees to be provided by industry. but we have a broad majority in the committee, a broad consensus, for what we have decided by majority, and we hope that the plenary will also understand our consensus tomorrow. we want every company to have the duty to ensure that it is able to repair the damage to the environment for which it is responsible. we do not insist on any single form of financial guarantee. we leave a lot of room and a lot of possibilities. the member states and the commission must guarantee that we are able to function. as far as the definition of mining waste is concerned, we have taken into account all those who have contributed to the discussion process. the industry, the environmental ngos, the ecj and, last but not least, the commission. it is beyond question that by voting in committee we have not reinvented existing legislation, but on the contrary, we have avoided exactly that. we have made some amendments to the commission proposal in the environmental field. we have linked ecology and economics together, something which the social democrats have always written on their banners. the fact that there are only 20 amendments from the groups for the plenary is a testament to the good work we have done in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. i have had a very pleasant experience of working with the colleagues who have worked on this dossier in the committee. the commission has also been very helpful in many cases. i thank you for that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail about the reasons for this. i was pushed, and i hurt my back. i would ask you very sincerely that members of parliament be able to follow their work in this house without being harmed by media representatives.
council. – mr president, president prodi, i am very pleased to be here with you today to report on the outcome of last week’s spring european council. when i last had the honour to address this house in january on the priorities of the irish presidency, i said that the overriding objective of our presidency was to secure outcomes that would have a positive impact on the lives of europe's peoples. i believe that last week's european council has contributed to securing positive outcomes in a very real way. the european union has shown, yet again, that it has the ability to address new challenges. it has shown that when we move together, we can make a real difference to people's daily lives. the significant progress made at last week's european council was due to many factors. one important factor, i am convinced, is the excellent working relationship that has been built up between the council, the european commission and the european parliament. the theme of the irish presidency is 'europeans – working together'. the european council has clearly shown how much can be achieved when we succeed in doing this. at the meeting, as honourable members will be aware, the european council adopted a declaration on combating terrorism. we agreed to resume our negotiations in the intergovernmental conference and to reach agreement no later than at our meeting in june. we identified what needs to be done in practical terms to promote sustainable growth and more jobs. we discussed a range of foreign policy issues, including the middle east, afghanistan, iraq, the balkans and russia. sadly, as we are all too well aware, last week's european council took place in the shadow of the terrible attack in madrid on 11 march. i want to express, yet again, my sympathies to the families of the victims. i know that all here will agree with me when i say that this attack was a grave challenge to all that the european union stands for. in considering how to respond to this threat, the european council wished to ensure that everything that can be done is being done to protect our citizens from the scourge of terrorism. at the same time, fundamental human rights in our democracies must be protected. i believe that the declaration on combating terrorism adopted by the european council strikes the appropriate balance. it highlights our existing cooperation, it seeks to improve and emphasise the need to implement what we have agreed. i am glad to say also that the declaration endorsed a proposal made by european parliamentarians to declare 11 march a european day commemorating the victims of terrorism. the declaration contains a number of specific areas for action. these include measures to improve intelligence sharing, to strengthen border controls and the security of travel documents, enhanced protection for our transport systems and measures to counter the financing of terrorism. it also contains a commitment to effective cooperation with third countries and other international organisations, in particular the united nations. a counter-terrorism coordinator, mr de vries, has been appointed, reflecting the need for coordinated action across the european union. the european council will look again at the action plan on terrorism in june and we will all agree the key tasks and the deadlines by which these tasks are to be achieved. the european council also agreed a declaration on solidarity against terrorism. this commits the member states to act jointly in a spirit of solidarity if one of them is the victim of a terrorist attack. the declaration represents an important political signal of our solidarity in the fight against terrorism. i appreciate very much that president cox participated in the first session of our meeting on terrorism. the solidarity shown by the institutions of the union conveyed an important message. the threat of terrorism is a threat to our security, our democracies and our way of life in the european union. we will do everything in our power to protect our people from this threat. i am particularly pleased that there was major progress in the intergovernmental conference. on the basis of my report, the european council requested the presidency to continue its consultations. it also requested the presidency to arrange for the resumption of formal negotiations in the igc as soon as appropriate. it decided that agreement on the new constitution should be reached no later than the june european council. when i spoke here in january, i made clear my commitment to seizing any opportunity to take forward the igc, and, if possible, to conclude it during our presidency. but at that time, and indeed up until the european council itself, it was not clear how far we would be able to go. we were not certain that it would be possible to relaunch the igc, even though we very strongly wished to do so. indeed, many people, during the initial stages of our presidency, told me that they thought there was little chance. we could not have reached agreement on a timeframe for the conclusion of the igc without the political commitment of my colleagues in the european council. last week, we all rededicated ourselves to the constitution, and acknowledged its value and importance. the sooner it is in place, the better. we also recognised that, even though the final negotiations will be difficult, there was no reason to believe that they would become any easier in time. indeed, there was a general sense around the table that delay might even create further complications. there was also a sense of the need for flexibility and compromise on all sides. the development of this positive and constructive spirit made it possible to decide to go for it now. this is a huge step forward, and great credit is due to this parliament. you have consistently urged the member states collectively to drive forward the negotiations. your very positive endorsement of the presidency's strategy has been deeply appreciated, and i look forward to continuing to work with you and your representatives over the period ahead. in our consultations with all delegations, we have been able to confirm that the great bulk of the convention's text is not in dispute. we have also ascertained that many of the additional proposals made by the italian presidency would have been acceptable to partners in the context of an overall agreement. there are still several outstanding issues, which vary considerably in complexity and sensitivity. we have, however, also been able to identify possible ways forward and believe that all of them can be resolved. this will not be easy. it will require give and take from all sides. but i believe that the key ingredient – the political will to reach agreement – is now there. parliament’s representatives, like those of all other delegations, have made clear to us which issues are of particular importance to you. it is not possible for me to say that any delegation will secure every point it has raised. however, i can assure you – as i can assure everybody else – that the presidency will be open and even-handed in its dealings with everyone. i can guarantee that you will not be bypassed or blindsided in the negotiations. i want all participants to be able to recommend the final outcome to the people of europe as fair, balanced and positive. as i said in my report, the most difficult issues remain the size and composition of the commission, and the definition and scope of qualified majority voting. at last week's meeting, we did not enter into detailed discussions on these issues, nor did i try to draw conclusions. but i offered my broad sense of which avenues for compromise might be most productively explored. i recognise that the commission must be both effective and legitimate. i feel that these two perspectives should be reconciled through maintaining for an extended period a commission comprising one national of each member state, moving thereafter to a reduced size on the basis of equal rotation. it is clear that only a voting system based on double majority can command a consensus. it is also vital that we keep the requirement for increased efficiency firmly in view, while paying due regard to balance among the member states and to their specific concerns. it should be possible to reach an outcome that meets the concerns of all. i believe this could be done through some adjustments of the population and member state thresholds and through arrangements for confirmation of the transition to double majority. but clearly, further consideration of the details is required. as regards the scope of qualified majority voting, there is a general desire – shared, i know, by parliament – for its extension, with a view to promoting efficient decision-making in a larger union. at the same time, there is also a need to take account of the particular concerns of member states in relation to a number of specific issues. i believe that a satisfactory overall outcome, which will involve a growth in the number of areas subject to qmv and codecision, in comparison with the present treaties, will be found. these issues are unlikely to be finally resolved until close to the end of the negotiations. however, in the period ahead, it will be essential to reach agreement on as many subjects as possible, to boil down to the minimum the number of outstanding questions. in this process, the presidency intends to make use of the full range of channels, including bilateral meetings and official-level discussions. but the igc is, of course, conducted at political level, and i will be asking foreign ministers to take forward work on a range of issues during the final negotiations at the level of heads of state or government. like you, i would very much wish to conclude the igc at the earliest date. however, account will have to be taken of a number of factors, including the formation of new governments in some countries and the number of issues still to be resolved. i assure you that if we discover that there is a real opportunity to finish before june, we will do so. we should not underestimate how far forward we have come. only a few short weeks ago, few would have been optimistic about our chances of finishing by june at all. so far, as presidency, we have sought to keep expectations modest but ambitions high. no ambition is higher than the achievement of our common objective of a constitution that will deliver for our citizens and help make the union more effective at home and in the wider world. with your help, i look forward to reaching that goal. when i spoke to this house in january, i set out the high priority that the irish presidency was giving to the lisbon agenda and of our firm determination that the spring european council should serve to revitalise and reinvigorate the lisbon process. i was greatly encouraged by the response of the european parliament to our ideas at that time. i am pleased to report that the european council had a fruitful discussion last week. we focused on the key issues where action is crucial if we are to re-inject momentum into the lisbon agenda. my colleagues agreed with my proposal that discussions should be on two overarching themes – sustainable growth and employment – as the key challenges needed to be tackled urgently. the european council agreed that we need a balanced approach if we are to ensure that future growth will be sustainable. we need to maintain sound macro-economic policies while promoting greater competitiveness and innovation. at the same time, social cohesion must remain central to our approach. equally, future growth, to be sustainable, has to be environmentally sound. the european parliament’s constructive engagement with the council has been pivotal in enabling us to make real progress on all aspects of the union’s work, not least in legislative work directly related to the lisbon agenda. legislation agreed in recent weeks ranges from financial services to rail market opening, to intellectual property rights and to environmental liability. i look forward to more results in the weeks immediately ahead. it is highly important for the continuing credibility of the lisbon agenda that we meet our objectives. i am delighted in this context to welcome your approval yesterday of two important legislative proposals – the financial instruments markets directive and the transparency directive. a key challenge identified at the european council was in the services sector, which remains highly fragmented. success in creating a true single market in this area will yield considerable benefits for the european consumer. the services sector has accounted for 70% of job creation and growth over the past ten years. i am pleased to report that the european council, seeing the potential for expansion in this area, agreed that the draft directive on services, currently under consideration in the council, should be agreed as a matter of high priority. the development of better regulation will lead to enhanced competitiveness and productivity. the european council welcomed the four-presidency initiative led by ireland, the netherlands, luxembourg and the uk, which will drive this issue forward as a priority over the next two years. we will return to the issue of better regulation at the november 2004 european council. if we are truly to encourage competitiveness, innovation and entrepreneurship throughout europe, we must have a strong science and research capacity. progress in the research area is a central element of the lisbon agenda. we must work to ensure that researchers remain in europe, and are attracted to working in europe. the european council agreed, as a first step in this process, that the european framework programme for research and development should be made more user-friendly, to facilitate greater r&d investment by small and medium-sized enterprises and start-up companies. the european council also stressed the need for investment in basic research. such research is an essential building block for innovation and competitiveness. growth must be not only economically sustainable but also environmentally sustainable. one of the most interesting new areas in this regard is that of environmental technologies. the european council recognises the importance of enabling companies to exploit new technologies, and has called for the rapid implementation of the environmental technologies action plan. we have also invited the commission and the european investment bank to see how financial instruments could be mobilised to promote such technologies. the commission is to prepare a report for next year’s european council on progress in this area. of course, growth and competitiveness are not ends in themselves: they are the means to secure and develop the european social model, with its emphasis on sustainability and inclusion. protecting the most vulnerable members of our society is an essential part of the lisbon agenda. the european council placed employment at the very core of its agenda. creating more and better jobs is the most urgent issue to be addressed over the coming year. the european council agreed that member states should give urgent attention to four particular structural challenges, identified by the employment taskforce and reinforced in the joint employment report. these are to promote greater adaptability by companies and workers, attract more people into the labour market, improve the quality of employment, and encourage greater investment in human capital. there is a real benefit from taking action now to maximise employment opportunities. high employment will boost growth and also provides the best route out of poverty and social exclusion. next year’s spring european council will review progress made in this area over the course of the year. particular attention will be given to the extent to which national actions have boosted progress towards the lisbon employment goals. the council and the commission have been invited to jointly prepare a concise synthesis report, drawing on the joint employment report, specifically for that discussion. as i indicated earlier, parliament’s role has been pivotal in enabling us to advance the lisbon agenda. one of the areas on which we hope to make progress over the coming weeks is that of a mobility package aimed at enabling workers to move more easily between member states. we have worked together cooperatively on regulation (eec) no 1408/71 which, once agreed, should bring significant benefits in terms of better coordination of social security systems and easier access to entitlements. i hope that we can finalise this dossier jointly before the end of the term. equally, i look forward to fruitful cooperation on the related dossiers of europass and the mutual recognition of professional qualifications directive, which are aimed at making it easier to have educational qualifications recognised in other member states. governments alone cannot bring about the range of changes required to reach the lisbon goal. all stakeholders have a vital role to play in progressing and facilitating change. to this end, the european council agreed to the presidency's proposal to establish reform partnerships in each member state, according to national arrangements and traditions, involving the social partners, civil society and the public authorities. these partnerships will provide a useful mechanism for building commitment for change and reform. we all recognise that much more needs to be done if lisbon is to be implemented within its original timescale. next year's mid-term review will provide a critical opportunity for us to take stock of what needs to be changed if we are to speed up the implementation process. we need to build our preparations for the mid-term review on a good foundation. to this end, heads of state or government invited the commission to establish a high-level group, chaired by mr wim kok, to carry out an independent review to contribute to this exercise. wim kok’s appointment will provide continuity with the earlier work of the employment taskforce. his unparalleled experience will provide a vital and invaluable impetus for the mid-term review. we have asked the high level group to report by 1 november of this year, to enable the commission to bring forward its own recommendations to next year’s spring european council. the european council reviewed a number of issues on the international agenda and adopted conclusions on the middle east peace process, iraq, the strategic partnership with the mediterranean and the middle east, russia, afghanistan and the ivory coast. we also considered cyprus. the european council reviewed the situation in kosovo following the recent outbreak of ethnically motivated violence. the situation appears to have stabilised, but remains tense. it is essential that the primacy of the political process be reasserted and that local politicians take responsibility for that situation. the european union remains fully committed to a stable future for a secure, democratic, prosperous and multi-ethnic kosovo. the union will continue to support fully the efforts of the special representative of the un secretary general, mr harri holkeri, and the standards before status process. the council also discussed the situation in the middle east, which continues to be of grave concern. the presidency is maintaining close contact with the leaders of the principal arab states to ensure that momentum in the peace process is not lost. foreign minister cowen has visited cairo and damascus in the last two days and has emphasised the need for a concerted effort to advance our common goals of peace and security in the region through a just resolution of the conflict. on afghanistan, the european council looks forward to the international conference on afghanistan that is taking place today in berlin. the european union remains firmly committed to the reconstruction of afghanistan. foreign minister brian cowen is representing the eu at this important conference together with mr javier solana and commissioner patten. the negotiations on a cyprus settlement are in the final phase as we meet here today. the accession of a united cyprus on 1 may remains the strong preference of the european union. in our conclusions, the european council reiterated the union’s support for the un-led negotiations and reaffirmed our readiness to accommodate the terms of a settlement in line with the principles on which the european union is founded. this european council took place at a critically important time in the history of the european union. as we set out in our presidency programme, the first half of 2004 represents a time of great change and challenge, but also of great hope and opportunity for the union. the first of may will mark the end of the post-war division of the continent and enable us to move forward together towards a better, more inclusive europe. terrible events like those of 11 march only serve to reinforce our determination to work together to forge agreements that will, in every sense, make europe work. i look forward to continuing to work in full cooperation with the european parliament and the european commission. i particularly thank you today for all your cooperation over the last months. as we stand on the threshold of enlargement, we can continue to show that the new europe, working together, has both the will and the determination to deliver the positive outcomes and decisions that our people deserve. (applause)
president of the commission. mr president of the council, mr president of the parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the project of european integration began as a peace project. over the course of half a century, the objectives of peace have evolved and stabilized, and today all the protagonists of a united europe share certain basic principles, because being part of the union means respecting the fundamental rights of the person, regulating public life in a democracy and building and defending our model of political, economic and social development. i have often thought about these principles in recent times, reflecting on the internal and external challenges facing our union, also because, in the face of the increasingly terrible threats of terrorism, we seek common points of reference. the european council meeting in brussels on saturday followed the same instinct. as you know, the spring council is the focal point of the union's economic governance. however, recent events have profoundly changed the agenda, starting with the attacks in madrid on 11 march, following which the council adopted a series of measures to ensure our security against the threat of terrorism. the attack has once again struck innocent citizens, and once again it is to them and the families of the victims that our first thoughts must go. but the wave of terrorism has affected all europeans: it has affected us personally and it has affected our civil and political institutions. the threat of terrorism is the greatest challenge to the democratic and civil principles governing public life and to our societies based on respect for human rights since the end of the second world war. i can tell this house with satisfaction that the council has decided to meet this threat with the greatest possible determination. the declaration adopted in brussels leaves no doubt: the member states of the union are united in their common objective of the complete eradication of terrorism. i therefore welcome the measures to coordinate and unify intelligence, police and security systems which were decided on last weekend. at this historic juncture, remember that this is the highest possible level of coordination, as it was not possible to create a single european security agency. it would have been nice, but it was not practical. however, i am convinced that this is only the first step towards ever greater integration. in the future, the aim is to create common operational structures at european level. but the most important thing today is that europeans have understood that force alone is not enough to defeat terrorism. it takes strength and intelligence to understand and solve the root causes. the military option and repression must be accompanied by the political option. both options must be pursued in a multilateral way, as unilateral approaches are no longer sufficient. firstly, as the declaration solemnly states, this means strengthening the already close and loyal bond of mutual trust between europe and the united states. without this strong alliance, there is no hope of maintaining world peace. but it is equally essential to give the un a central role and the necessary credibility. the un must be actively involved in the field and in policy projects aimed at restoring stability to regions in crisis. the union, for its part, has the opportunity to build on the experience of peace and dialogue acquired in almost half a century of existence. our contribution must involve and mobilise the resources of all countries in order to isolate terrorist groups. the aim is to deprive terrorism of its life force, which means preventing recruitment and cutting off all technical, logistical and financial support. but terrorism also has an ideological component, however aberrant, and a political project of its own, and so we must deal with the crises that divide the world and threaten its stability. firstly - and i am pleased to echo what the taoiseach ahern said a moment ago - we must seek a solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict: that is the priority of the priorities. the success of our strategy against international terrorism depends on peace in the middle east. we must also work to unblock the situation in iraq. all these initiatives in the middle east and iraq must be finalised and brought within the framework of un action. the aim, of course, is to return iraq to the iraqi people as soon as possible, while ensuring security, independence and the highest level of democratic expression. as i said, honourable members, the spring council is devoted to the governance of the union, and the session devoted to the economy further strengthened this role. but for some years now, the european economy has been in difficulty, and this is threatening one of the pillars of our union, our economic and social model. four years ago, in lisbon, the union decided that to maintain and develop our way of life we had to undertake a profound reform of our economic systems. the council's conclusions show that there is a very broad convergence on the analysis of the things to be done, contained in the report that the commission presented to you last january. we all agree on benchmarking, coordination, priorities to promote growth and competitiveness. we've been saying it for years now: we need to invest in research and development and human resources. however, agreeing on what needs to be done is not enough. we need a serious commitment and the tools to do it, but we have neither. i am sorry to say that we have not yet been able to turn words into action. most of the decisions taken have not been translated into concrete action at member state level and there has been no planned shift of resources towards those investments which we all - i repeat, we all - consider necessary. these uncertainties and the limited financial commitments demonstrate the two fundamental problems with the governance system of the european economy: on the one hand, the lisbon process lacks a strong point of authority at community level, which is the only way to coordinate actions; on the other hand, we have to deal with the dynamics of modern political organisations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. political trends, on the other hand, increasingly favour actions that produce a visible return before the end of the election cycle, which is much shorter. it is true that some member states have embarked on important, even painful, reforms, showing responsibility, foresight and political courage. the council reaffirmed the need to continue along this path because everyone understood that the future of europe was at stake. i hope that this time the reforms that have been initiated will be completed and extended to the fields of knowledge, education and research. for the time being, there seems to be a political will to rapidly implement the european growth initiative, which includes a list of quickstart projects in research and development, transport, energy and information technologies. these are well-defined measures which have already been approved by the european council and can all be launched quickly. real progress is needed starting this year and the shortfall in transposition of the lisbon directives into national law must be closed by next year. i am sorry to make these remarks, but i think it is right and proper. i would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with a brief reflection on the european constitution, the reflection with which the taoiseach opened his speech. we have seen that external challenges and internal challenges threaten the pillars on which our common home stands. in these difficult times, we must put aside our differences and give the european union the means to build a more solid framework for cooperation, which will enable us to decide together and pool our resources. let 's not kid ourselves . europe's challenges today can only be met if we stand together; no european country, however large and powerful, has the means to do this alone. the spring council brought us good news on this point, and i would like to end with it today, also to live up to my reputation as an unyielding optimist. all in all, i've been right to be optimistic these past few years. the conditions have been created in brussels for the negotiations on the constitutional treaty to be resumed in a short time and for a conclusion to be reached by the end of the irish presidency, and this is thanks to the extraordinary work of mediation by the presidency, for which i applaud and admire. in recent weeks, positive signals had come from several governments who had declared themselves ready to compromise. we have had confirmation in the council - also from a psychological, human point of view - that things are finally going in the right direction. the most difficult knot to untie remains the one which caused the previous deadlock, namely the thresholds necessary to decide by qualified majority. it is not a question of percentages, of course, but of a fact on which the future of our integration process depends: the enlarged union simply needs to be able to take decisions. if the threshold for a majority decision is too high, the union will no longer be able to decide on the fight against terrorism, economic governance or any other issue because a small group of countries can block any proposal. that is the point, quite simply, and so far the discussion has been about the size of this blocking minority. i ask you to consider that you cannot set up an institutional debate by thinking about the instruments available to the member states to block decisions. the debate must be about the opposite question: what are the best tools to decide, not to block? based on the latest developments, another failure seems imminent. it seems, then, that we will soon have our longed-for and beloved constitution. i would, however, call for the final compromise to be a high compromise, one which will enable the enlarged union of 25 to function efficiently. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! the terrible events of 11 march 2004 in madrid were the focus and the main theme of the brussels summit. and it was right that the necessary consequences were drawn. i remember very well when the american president, john f. kennedy, said in the divided berlin in 1963: 'i am a berliner'. and i think that we as europeans must take a similar approach to our spanish partners and friends. we must say that this attack in madrid was not just an attack on spain, but an attack on all of europe, on the whole of the western world, on the whole of the world. we must therefore make this concern and solidarity with spain the benchmark for committed action and make a clear and decisive contribution to the european union and european unity. this must be our response to terrorism. i would like to thank you very, very warmly, mr president of the european council, for sending this signal from brussels through your leadership. europe wants to act now! europe wants to be united, and europe wants to walk the path to the future together! it is right that the summit has adopted the solidarity clause as it appears in the constitution. this is a solidarity clause against terrorism. but europe must be solidary in general when it comes to external attacks, and we know today more than ever that domestic and foreign policy are one and the same and that one cannot be separated from the other. we welcome the appointment of a coordinator for internal security matters, and with our former colleague gijs de vries we have gained an excellent personality for this. i look forward to working with the homeland security coordinator! but i would also say, mr president of the european council - and the appointment will certainly not be the last word - that we would have welcomed the creation of the office of security coordinator not in the field of foreign policy and intergovernmental cooperation but, in the commission's view, in the field of the community institutions, so that it would also be subject to parliamentary and judicial control. and i think this is important for the future. i do not wish to call into question the creation of this task. but it will also be necessary that we do not use the creation of such a position as an alibi to claim that we have done enough in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i therefore regret very much that the european arrest warrant has not yet been issued. and we call on the five states which have not yet ratified it to do so soon. and we also need to expand europol. europol would be much more effective if it did not have to go through these difficult financial negotiations between the member states of the european union if it is to give money to europol. why not also subject europol to the community method so that europol can be financed from the community budget? it would make things a lot easier. and i think we should accept the community method in this area too. i think the most important thing when we talk about internal security, about terrorism, is that we say to the arab world: we do not identify terrorism with the arab or islamic world. i remember the discussion after 1945, when the collective guilt of the germans was discussed. and this has rightly been rejected because not all were responsible for the crimes of national socialism. we must not make the mistake of equating terrorism with the arab and islamic worlds. we want cooperation, we want cooperation with the arab and islamic world. i also agree with the president of the commission, mr romano prodi, who said that peace in the middle east, with security and dignity for all the people of israel and palestine, is a very important factor for peace in the world and for peaceful relations between europe and the middle east and the arab world as a whole. and we're opposing human dignity to contempt for humanity. we are opposing our principles of life to the principles of death. and we're putting our will to cooperate against our hate. now the message has to be, and i want to thank you very much for getting us the constitution. our group is very much in favour of the constitution, and the whole european people's party declares it to be the top priority. we would like to say to you, mr president of the european council, that it would be a great achievement if you could bring the constitution to a successful conclusion during your presidency - we would like to see it before the european elections. we wish you all the best. we're on your side. the right response to the world is that europe is determined and united. (applause from the centre)
the commission is not prepared to accept this. every man and woman here applauds that you have succeeded in bringing movement back into the constitutional process. it's not a breakthrough, but it's a really big step forward that they've made. you can count on our support for every step of the constitutional process. three points are of particular concern to us: the first is the qualified majority. we are pleased that the principle of the double majority seems to have been accepted. but in the design of this double majority, what is now important is not to strengthen the blocking minority, not to strengthen the european union's ability to block, but to strengthen the european union's decision-making capacity. i would ask you not to make any lazy compromises on this issue. the second point is the qualified majority in domestic and judicial policy. in view of the capacity to act against the threat of international terrorism, taoiseach, it cannot be a question of widening unanimity again, but it must be a question of reaching majority decisions also in the field of internal and judicial policy. this is necessary not only to make the fight against terrorism more effective. the third point is the budgetary rights of the european parliament. they know our concerns, our worries and our demands. i would remind you that the outcome of the convention, the draft convention, is already a compromise which has been very difficult for the european parliament. but i also say to you now that a constitution which would reduce the original right of every parliament, namely the right to budget, cannot be acceptable to us in the european parliament. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full part in the development of the common foreign and security policy. for all the peoples of europe are like the strings of a harp. every people has its own sound. but all of them are needed to play a melody. taoiseach, get on the ropes, get your fellow heads of government swinging and swinging! in june, finish with the tune all europeans have been waiting for, beethoven's ode to joy, "joy of the beautiful sparks of the gods". (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the criminal attacks in madrid show that europe has become the direct target of international terrorism. this has created a new situation in the european union. it must certainly take account of policy, both in the short and the long term. unfortunately, the leaders of the world are limited to short-term, hasty actionism, which in the end only represents security, but does not really create it. we are also in danger of ending up in an orwellian surveillance state, where the basic rights of citizens are increasingly put at the disposal of the state. it simply cannot be that as i am currently experiencing in germany a new security policy pig is being driven through the village every day. benjamin franklin, the father of the american constitution, was right when he said: "the man who is willing to give up his liberty to gain security will lose both". militarily, even with war, terrorist attacks cannot be prevented. my main criticism of the european council's decisions is that the fight against terrorism was not, in fact, seen as a strategic task of the european union. the european union must also be able to take action to combat terrorism and crime by addressing the causes of these crimes, and that is through political action. by political action that deprives the prophets of hatred and violence of their breeding ground. poverty, exploitation, misery and injustice, as well as disregard for religious feelings and cultural traditions, are what tempt terror and violence. that is why i say that the best prevention and the best protection against terrorism, violence and war is a just international order. europe must therefore develop a convincing policy aimed at a peaceful and just balance of interests between the rich north and the south and putting an end to the plundering of the so-called 'third world'. the immediate tasks include the withdrawal of the united states and its allies from iraq, the peaceful settlement of the middle east conflict and the halting of european arms exports. these are the long-term strategic tasks which the european union must face in the fight against terrorism.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. at one point this spring summit has given us hope. we can say: 'let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go!' we can say: 'let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go!' we can say: 'let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go!' i very much hope that it will also end well in the critical points that have already been raised by the others here today. we need this european constitution to make it clear that europe is not just a market, we are not just an economic and monetary union, we do not just have a single currency, no, we also want to speak in a single voice as a community of values and laws. we must also speak with one voice in another area where the diversity is far too great for me. the lisbon strategy is not lost. we are still concerned with sustainable growth, full employment and social cohesion. but we are a long way from the goals we set for ourselves: the economic spring is not coming soon, we have mass unemployment with over 14 million unemployed, more than 55 million people living on the poverty line, and if we look at investment, we really have to talk about 'investment attentism' in europe. the internal demand is not boosted either. the consumer's buying behaviour is certainly not good enough, not only because of the feeling of uncertainty caused by globalisation, by the uncertainty about what is going on in europe, but also because of the fear of terrorist attacks. the commission has also been very active in the fight against unemployment, and i am sure that the commission will be very active in this area. the european economy needs a new impetus. even if tomorrow the european central bank, in the face of low inflation and low monetary growth, were to use its margin of manoeuvre and cut interest rates, it would not be enough. further policy measures will be needed. this is not the case with the summit speeches, it is not the case with the summit agreements. this applies to the implementation measures in the member states. we'll lose our success and credibility if there's no more happening! mr president, europe needs more projects like airbus. here we have shown that public-private partnerships, different countries, different workers, different companies can work together. why can't europe organise other successful projects that have this kind of importance? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the investment offensive, the quick start programme, is certainly a step in the right direction. but that's not enough, it's just not enough. we must continue to pursue reforms, we must remove barriers to trade, and especially to services. but we must also rely on investment, and the pact must not stand in the way of that. the absence of a community patent is also not a great motivator for the best in research and development. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. only visible and concrete results will convince the citizens of europe of the value of europe. europe is once again at a crossroads. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank you very much for your consideration, but there are big things going on in my group at the moment, and that is why we had to be there. i would like to thank the irish presidency very much. we are witnessing history being made these days, because the irish presidency of the council is making history. it is the council, through its wise and restrained negotiating methods, which are courageously pursuing the objective of destroying the constitution. i would like to thank you very much for that. i think we are also seeing some areas where there is still considerable negotiation to be done. the taoiseach, mr president, has made the matter clear with the six points and the other 22 points. i would like to make it clear again how many speakers there are: budgetary law, and therefore the financial perspective, is the prerogative of each parliament. i hope that will be taken into account in the negotiations. we have also sought this constitution in order to have the capacity to act in an enlarged union. the principle of the double majority has been successfully implemented. but now we also need to have figures with a double majority so that it brings more decision-making power. and thirdly, i believe that it is precisely in the council's majority decision-making that we must ensure that we enforce majority decisions, particularly in those areas where our citizens are particularly at risk as a result of terrorist acts, namely in the field of justice and home affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would also like to say that we as a parliament should make a joint effort with the commission to support the irish presidency of the council. if it were confirmed that mr barnier has become french foreign minister - which i consider to be good news - i would be pleased, since his position in the intergovernmental conference must be filled, if, because of its importance, president prodi himself would take on this task in the coming months, in order to make clear the support for this process also on the part of the commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the madrid attack not only cost many people their lives, but it also damaged the sovereignty of a european state. because, twist and turn it however you like, the terrorists have obviously succeeded in influencing the sovereign decision of the spanish electorate. the terrorists have also arrived in the heart of europe. i wonder whether the europeans have adequately recognised the nature of this threat and are prepared to respond to it. the reaction so far has been rather weak. the first was the unearthing of programmes that we have known since 11 september 2001 and which have been insufficiently implemented. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will take a decision on it. there is a call for a commissioner. this is the standard response to a european problem: a representative is appointed. mr de vries is a highly respected former colleague from parliament. it is less important that it exists than what competencies it should have. there are few answers. the order of the day would be prevention. this would require the aggregation of existing data in europe on, for example, terrorists. there is a lot of knowledge in the national services, but there is little willingness to share it at european level. europe would now have a chance to defend itself against the terrorists in a lasting and effective way if it worked together in this field in a more close and trusting manner than has been the case so far.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would ask for your attention for a moment to a point of order. mr president, i rise to speak because i would like to ask you, as president-in-office, to do something which i said to the president of this house last monday and which i would like to repeat now: a man in this house has made a number of accusations against members of this house concerning various acts which he claims are directed against other members. i am personally affected by this, as are many other colleagues from my country. these are allegations that i believe are worthy of investigation. (applause from the centre) i make this request for myself personally, mr president, but also on behalf of all the 34 other german social democrat members of parliament. i am sure that the green, pds and cdu/csu groups will also be making their views known. i would therefore ask on my own behalf and on behalf of all my colleagues: i would like to ask the house to allow the competent departments of this house, in particular the legal service and the college of quaestors, to examine each complaint in close cooperation with the court of auditors and with the european anti-fraud office olaf. every single one of them! (applause from the centre) i would also ask, mr president, that the results of the examination of these allegations be made available to the house and thus to the public before the end of the parliamentary term - that is, by may - because it is unacceptable, mr president, for anyone to come forward and make allegations and then have to justify himself to an entire institution. i ask that the allegations made be examined on a case-by-case basis in a proper procedure involving the legal service, the quaestors, the court of auditors and the european anti-fraud office and that the results be made public. i ask that for myself and for all the other colleagues concerned. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would also like to draw your attention to the incident described by mr schulz and i join his call for an immediate investigation of these allegations and for the public and ourselves to be informed. there are 50 to 60 german meps who are suspected of having wrongly taken daily allowances. i reject these accusations with all my strength! the daily allowance shall not be paid in return for attendance at meetings. we all have countless other tasks to do besides attending meetings that are not recorded in any meeting schedule. and also for attending such work in brussels as in strasbourg, daily allowances are used to cover expenses. that is why we cannot accept that we are being defamed in this way. i reject this again with determination. here is a member of this parliament using his powers as a member of parliament to spy on colleagues in the most unworthy and disgusting way. (applause from the centre) i would also like to ask you, mr president, to clarify these events immediately and, as i said, to inform the public and us. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. for three weeks, this house has been under the unnamed accusation that colleagues have allegedly forged signatures when they were registered in lists. since last night, the 'mundfunk' has been reporting here in the house that the administration has completed its investigations with the aid of graphology and has come to the conclusion that there are no fakes. i think it is unacceptable that today, on wednesday, after these investigations have been completed, this information is not being made public here in the house and also to the press. (applause from the centre) i expect the president of this house - this does not concern you personally, but the president in his capacity - to make a public statement today on the results of these investigations. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to endorse the points made by those who spoke before me. what is happening here is a campaign against the european parliament as such, and i think we must reject it. we must therefore clarify the situation as quickly as possible, because i fear that the result will be a very low turnout in the next elections. if we are to regain the confidence of the citizens, we need to clarify this matter. we call on all institutions to do their part to bring this to an end as soon as possible and to put an end to this campaign. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to endorse the words of my colleagues, the previous speakers. we held a press conference yesterday in this house, together, across party lines. we have written a joint open letter to a certain newspaper in the federal republic, accusing us of this. it is only when every single complaint is concretely cleared that we are all able to restore the confidence of the people, of the public, in this house. this is about the reputation of every person in this house. the reputation and integrity of the european parliament are at stake. i therefore ask that every allegation be examined in detail, as mr schulz has suggested.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have the honour of participating in an intergovernmental conference as a representative of the european parliament. as chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, i have many discussions with representatives of the candidate countries and with representatives of other countries in the council, the commission and embassies. i ask for your support and protection that this activity in the exercise of my mandate will not be considered by mr martin in public as a disadvantage. (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. the commission is not i would also like to make a statement on behalf of the committee on a report which we have now adopted unanimously because we are dealing with the extension of the lamfalussy procedure. in other words, without a provision in the european constitution, which has so far only been contained in article 35 of the draft constitution, the aim is not to reduce the legislative powers of the european parliament. we want to ensure that when we delegate legislation to committees of experts and to the executive, we have the right of recourse at any time, so that we are treated in the same way as the council, within the framework of institutional balance. this has led to major problems on the question of securities legislation, but we have seen that this european parliament has been able to dominate the legislative process, to retain the sovereignty of definition and to draw a clear line between technical and political problems, so that the sovereign - the sovereign elected by the people, the european parliament - has in fact remained the co-legislator. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial services are not undermined. the institutions, the co-legislator european council and the commission, with their right to propose, have assured us that they respect the rights of the european parliament as a co-legislator, and they are now both making a declaration to that effect, so that no privilege is given to the other legislator. we are prepared to do so because the legislation is becoming more and more complex, and this will continue to be the case in the telecommunications sector. but we cannot delegate the definition and political determination of legislation to experts or the executive. so with the guarantees of the commission and also of the council, we are now voting on my report, which will then allow for enlargement, but which at the same time makes it clear that parliament remains the legislator in co-decision procedures. this was not clear before the draft convention, but now we have an agreement between the institutions, and i think that is a great step forward for this european parliament.
council. mr president, i would like to make a statement in relation to the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council to establish a new financial services committee organisational structure. in particular i wish to bring to the attention of the house the contents of a letter which was sent by the president-in-office of ecofin, minister charlie mccreevy td, on 24 march to the chair of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, mrs randzio-plath. the contents of the letter are as follows: 'concerning the proposal for a directive to establish a new financial services committee organisational structure, presented by the commission on 5 november 2003, i would like to clarify a few points which have been raised during the contacts between the council and the european parliament. when in march 2001 the stockholm european council took the decision to apply the lamfalussy approach in the securities sector, the following passage was included in the presidency conclusions: ‘the european council notes that, within the framework of the comitology decision of 28 june 1999, the commission has committed itself, in order to find a balanced solution for those cases of implementing measures in the field of securities markets acknowledged in the light of the discussions to be particularly sensitive, to avoid going against predominant views which might emerge within the council as to the appropriateness of such measures. this commitment shall not constitute a precedent.’ ' the council, noting that this commitment on behalf of the commission does not constitute a precedent, and taking into account the function of the lamfalussy approach in the securities sector, will not ask the commission to make a similar undertaking within the framework of the extension of the lamfalussy approach to the banking and the insurance sectors.' concerning the question of interinstitutional balance, you will recall the statement of the representatives of the governments of the member states meeting within council on 9 december 2002, wherein they decided that they would draw the attention of their heads of state and government to the importance of a revision of article 202 of the ec treaty and invited them to consider this question in the preparation of the intergovernmental conference. we now have on the table of the intergovernmental conference a draft constitutional treaty which regulates the delegation to the commission of the power to enact delegated regulations. the treaty is not agreed yet, but i can affirm to you that the representatives of the governments of the member states meeting within the council favour the idea of a balanced legislative system in accordance with the principles set out in part i, article 35, of the draft treaty.' (applause)
commission. mr president, the proposed directive before you, while largely technical, is of considerable importance for the success of european financial integration. over the last few years we have moved to a whole new approach on the european regulation of securities designed to ensure that europe can react quickly and effectively to market developments and opportunities. with this in mind, the commission put forward the proposal designed to establish a coherent and effective regulatory system across the financial services area. in doing so, we were mindful of the reservations of parliament and, in particular, of your concerns on ensuring institutional balance with the council. i must, therefore, congratulate you for the very cooperative way in which your members and the council, and in particular the irish presidency, have worked with us to reach a solution. with this in mind, i now wish to make a formal declaration on behalf of the european commission.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i refer to rule 69 (2) of the rules of procedure. this report 'new neighbourhood policy' is about a reorganisation of the european investment bank's lending facilities. in agreement with the majority of the coordinators, i would ask you to allow the plenary to vote on the individual amendments, but to postpone the vote on the draft legislative resolution so that we have further opportunity to negotiate our amendments with the commission and the council, and so that the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy's request to set new priorities in the negotiations in relation to russia and the new independent states can still be taken into account.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am one of the victims of the slander of mr hans-peter martin, and i am no longer prepared to accept it in this form. i therefore request - and hereby put to the record - that the parliamentary immunity of mr hans-peter martin be waived. i'm going to press charges against this congressman for libel, slander, insult and all other felonies. i therefore ask that the parliamentary immunity be waived so that the proceedings can be carried out.
commission. mr president, the commission very much welcomes the baltas report. we have analysed it with great attention and interest, and i am glad of the opportunity here to make a few initial comments. mr baltas makes an assessment of important political and economic issues such as minority rights, refugee returns, cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, reform of the judiciary, freedom of the media, regional cooperation, economic and structural reforms – issues that are at the top of the our agenda at every meeting with the croatian authorities. although the report is destined for the council, the commission has taken a particular interest in it and would like to take this opportunity to thank mr baltas and the european parliament for this interesting assessment of croatia. at this stage the commission is still preparing its 'opinion on croatia’s membership application', which we hope to adopt in the coming weeks. the opinion on croatia’s application is based on more than 10 000 pages of information provided by the croatian government. we are using exactly the same criteria to evaluate this application as we did with all previous applicants. as in all other cases, political criteria will play a key role in this context, and croatia must meet them before negotiations can start. therefore, today the commission is not in a position to comment in detail on all the subjects mentioned in the baltas report. parliament will receive a copy of the commission’s opinion when it has been adopted, it will contain our analysis of whether croatia meets the copenhagen criteria and our recommendation to the council on whether or not membership negotiations should be opened. the european union is a community based on a set of shared values. a country must show that it adheres to them before it can start membership negotiations. therefore, the assessment in the commission’s opinion will focus on whether croatia respects these values of democracy, respect for the rule of law, human rights and the rights of minorities, which make up the political criteria for eu membership. the european commission fully acknowledges the progress made by croatia in the last few years. the political situation is stable, and democratic achievements have been consolidated. regional cooperation has been strengthened. the economic situation is improving; growth prospects are good and, more generally, the economic outlook remains positive. croatia has already started to work intensively in order to align its legislation with european law. at the same time, a number of important questions remain to be carefully assessed and are currently very closely monitored by the commission: questions such as cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, refugee returns, respect for minority rights, judicial reform and regional cooperation. croatia’s prospects for membership are clear, as they are for all the countries of south-eastern europe. however, it needs to meet the copenhagen criteria. provided it does that clearly and unequivocally, it can expect to progress further towards eventual membership of the european family.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a year ago, croatia, with the support of all its parties, applied to join the european union. we should remember that without the terrible years of war in its own country and in neighbouring bosnia and herzegovina and the four years of serbian occupation of a third of croatia, which led to many misdevelopments in the young independent democracy croatia could have been there on 1 may, along with slovenia. in the last five years, croatia has clearly chosen the european perspective and created the conditions for it. its relations with the neighbouring countries are good, regional cooperation is working, commissioner. the modernization of its economy is under way, and economic data give cause for optimism. i agree with you, the reform of the judiciary is lagging behind. the administrative capacity could also be improved. but it can't all be done today. croatia is on the right track and is willing to continue along this path. the return of refugees and/or the return of property is one of the objectives of the new government. the agreement between the government and the serb minority sets these very ambitious targets for return and repatriation for this year. it would be good if the european union could finally influence the republika srpska in bosnia and herzegovina to take back croatian refugees from croatia. the european union has a duty to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina. the lack of employment opportunities, especially in the formerly serb-occupied areas of croatia, is a major obstacle to return, and i hope that the cards programme can help here too. the cooperation with the hague is good. the croatian government even opened its archives to the hague last year. three croats accused of war crimes were sentenced to long prison terms in croatia last year. three weeks ago, two re-accused generals went to the hague themselves. europe must not measure cooperation between croatia and the international court of justice solely by the gotovina case. he's a french foreign legionnaire, he's supposed to have a french passport, he's probably in the sun in cannes or corsica, he could be anywhere. he's not in croatia, or they'd have caught him by now. it is unjust to hold croatia hostage to the gotovina case and it does not do justice to its unstoppable progress. the baltas report also mentions the border problems between croatia and slovenia. i believe that these problems are on the best way to being solved. i would like to make one further comment on the unilateral declaration of the fishing zone in the adriatic. that was stupid. it was legal, but i think the new government is taking good steps to improve this now in regional cooperation with slovenia and italy. the commission's treatment and assessment of croatia's progress will send a signal to the entire region. all the politicians i met in bosnia and herzegovina and serbia are anxiously awaiting the result. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union contains references to numerous abuses in various areas. on the occasion of the meeting of the ministers of justice and the ministers of the interior and their embassies, i would like to focus on the protection of refugees, namely article 18 of the charter of fundamental rights, which covers the right to asylum, and article 19 of the charter, which covers protection against deportation, expulsion and extradition. the report, on which i warmly congratulate the rapporteur, accuses the member states of not being able to agree on a directive on asylum procedures and the status of refugees. the ministers of the interior have just agreed this week. it is good that the new directive also gives people fleeing non-state persecution a recognised status in all eu countries. i have been working on this, and many ngos and citizens have been working on this. but unlike the politically persecuted, refugees are, unfortunately, at the instigation of my government, disadvantaged in their access to the labour market. i think there is no objective reason for this, and i think it is also economically counterproductive, because refugees with so-called subsidiary protection are forced into black labor to ensure their existence. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. that is correct, and i am glad that the president of the council agrees with me. the report is a good example of this. it is a shameful record for europe. i would like to point out in particular that people who live in the european union are still not granted the right to vote, despite the repeated demands of the european parliament. i would also like to point out that the concept of a safe third country means that in the future refugees will be virtually unable to enter the european union legally. the only way to get asylum in europe is to parachute over. i therefore hope that we in europe will have the courage to change our policy, that we will not have another report in which the european union is accused of so many different serious human rights violations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the talk of fundamental rights in this house, especially when it comes from the right, is hardly more hypocritical. while the council and governments are continually introducing new surveillance programmes, while their policy of fortress europe is plunging thousands of migrants into despair, confining them at the borders, drowning them in the sea and then interning the few who make it back to the eu to be deported as soon as possible, the european parliament is applauding itself as the supposed guardian of fundamental and human rights. unfortunately, for those who are deprived of their basic civil rights, the reality is different. state, police and racial violence are part of the daily capitalist business in the eu. a concrete example of this is the unabashed justification of torture in germany, as advocated by numerous representatives of politics, the judiciary and the police in 2003. the draft resolution i tabled condemning this justification for torture was unfortunately rejected by the groups defending their political friends in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
commission. madam president, i should like to thank the member for her report on the proposal for a council regulation on the conclusion of the protocol modifying the fourth fisheries protocol between the eu and greenland. i am happy to note that the member supports this proposal. the greenland protocol has been subject to serious criticism in the past. i believe that the revised version of the protocol is an important step in the right direction. on the basis of the mandate given by the council on 24 february 2003, the evaluation report done by the commission services and the report of the european parliament adopted on 2 september 2003, the commission initialled the modified fourth protocol on 18 june 2003 in athens. i should like to highlight the main new elements, a substantial adjustment of quotas has been carried out in order, among other things, to delete cod 'paper fish' and align the fishing possibilities with scientific advice: no more cod, redfish in western waters or blue whiting; and, in the european union fishing capacity, no more 'paper fish'. licence fees have been introduced in order to have burden-sharing between the community and ship owners. this is in line with the reform of the common fisheries policy, aligns the agreement with other third-country agreements and, last but not least, gives the commission the possibility of monitoring the fishing effort. as a response to the lack of transparency, a budgetary support programme has been introduced, and the greenland home rule government has committed itself to performing a structural reform of its fisheries policies. the greenland authorities have committed themselves to restructuring their fisheries sector towards more privatisation and fewer subsidies. they have also committed themselves to increasing substantially the budget of the greenland institute of natural resources so that it can increase its scientific capacity. experimental fisheries are promoted and extended to cephalopods and clams. if successful, this may be the answer both to the diversification needed in greenland fisheries and to the new species to be included in the next european community – greenland agreement. with regard to the problem of low utilisation of fishing possibilities and the waste of community funds, the standard transfer clause making it possible for the commission to reallocate under-utilised fishing possibilities to other non-quota older member states has been introduced. this is in full respect of the principle of relative stability and article 20(5) of the basic regulation. this is a crucial new element which not only gives the commission the means to ensure the sound financial management of community funds and optimal use of tax-payers' money, but also brings the greenland agreement into line with other third-country agreements with financial compensation.
i have to say, madam president, the greenland agreement is important in several ways. we have heard that, and we can only support it. firstly, it is one of the eu's most important fisheries agreements in terms of catches and financial compensation. secondly, it serves as an excellent example of sustainability and balance in the waters of the north atlantic. there is no doubt that improvements have been made. and thirdly, it also reflects the special relationship between the former ec member greenland and the union. i am not telling you anything new, of course, when i say that the european fisheries policy is a genuine community policy, with all the consequences. there are community legal bases and principles which are binding. the principle of relative stability, which was only recently reaffirmed in the course of the major reform of the cfp, is also part of this. i think that it is extremely problematic and unrealistic to try to bring about change and to take a particular interest in the greenland issue, as some people in this house seem to be clearly intending to do. the eu fisheries organisations involved in the greenland agreement have committed themselves to sustainable and responsible fishing. otherwise this agreement would not have been concluded. they have been allocated quotas which they can use and trade themselves. you can't shake that! it is not possible that a kind of quota withdrawal can be created here by means of coercive measures which interfere with the substantive rights of the member states. imagine a football team that does not use its substitution opportunities and therefore is not allowed to make any more substitutions in the next game, but is allowed to compete with a team with twice the number of players. in a word, this is absurd. and even by referring to alleged economic and equitable reasons, all this cannot be justified. we need not an imposed redistribution but a partnership. all parties have repeatedly and credibly stated that they are committed to making the best possible use of quotas. as we have seen, germany has cooperated in recent years and transferred parts of its quotas for stocks in good condition to other member states. that is how you make a sustainable fisheries policy! i am in favour of closer cooperation on the question of quotas in the future, i admit, while respecting the powers of the member states and the commission. i also fully support an improved consultation procedure between member states on the exchange of quotas from agreements with third countries. and for that i ask the support of my colleagues.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the good report by mrs miguélez ramos on the amendment of the protocol to the fisheries agreement with greenland shows once again that there are legitimate criticisms of its content and application. these are not only coming from the rapporteur on the committee on fisheries but also from the committee on budgets. i can agree with the rapporteur when she calls for the financial expenditure for this agreement to be adjusted to the actual situation. i also fully support your request for a general evaluation report including a cost-benefit analysis. this is a longstanding demand of parliament in fisheries agreements with third countries. i cannot, however, support the rapporteur's request that the commission allocate unused fishing opportunities at the request of another member state, even if this allocation is limited to one fishing year. i think that would be a very serious blow to the principle of relative stability in the common fisheries policy. however, the possibility of transferring or exchanging allocated fishing quotas must remain within the competence of the member states. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide for the possibility of a reduction in the fishing effort. however, if foreseeable special circumstances lead to only partial use of the allocated quotas, bilateral contractual arrangements between member states are appropriate, as in the past. the commission should be allowed to intervene in this area by means of regulations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i therefore ask you to support amendment no 2 in the vote tomorrow and to vote against amendment no 5.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report before us today and this item on the agenda are for me among the most difficult of the past parliamentary term. the report is not so much a comprehensive one, but the procedure has proved to be extremely difficult. after the initiative of the kingdom of spain to oblige carriers to provide information on persons carried was presented, new unofficial versions were being sent every month since the spring of last year, when the first document was presented, with the indication that an official version would be forthcoming. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. then, suddenly, in mid-february, the council presented a new document, which meant that i had to draw up a completely new report. on the subject, my group supports the idea that it may make sense to require transport companies to provide the competent border control authorities with advance data on third country travellers. but, as has been said, the council's work is not convincing in any way in terms of its workmanship. the council has indeed corrected itself in these many respects. for example, it originally called for airlines to be obliged to report to the authorities those who had not used their return ticket within 48 hours of the scheduled date. that is, any of us could be suspected of being, so to speak, in an undue location simply because we do not use the ticket, at least not at the scheduled time. the council has recognised that it is on a treacherous path in certain respects, but it has not, in my view, provided the necessary tools either. for example, there is still no dialogue with the transport companies concerned about how this should be technically handled, how expensive it is and who ultimately bears the cost. i would just remind you that when you want to deal with illegal immigration, it is usually from third countries that are not blessed with wealth. if you think about these third countries, you also know that they are still often hand-checked, so the boarding pass is not printed out from the computer, but you get a pre-print of the boarding pass, on which the seat number is glued. the airlines would have to make a considerable effort to do so. i think that if you have such expectations, you must also start by seeking dialogue with the transport companies on how to organise this in a cooperative manner. secondly, it is not at all clear whether the border control authorities can actually do anything useful with the data they have received. in other words, will this make controls easier and more effective? this has not been examined in any way in committee meetings or in the document. the council's initiative is unjustified, there is no general justification and no detailed justification for the individual articles. a very important point which has not yet been satisfactorily resolved for me is whether the data collected can actually lead to more effective controls in the country of entry. that is why my report and the initiative were rejected in committee. my group will abstain from voting tomorrow because, as we say, we find the idea of a european social policy to be interesting and useful, but it must be done in a clean way. that has not been the case with this council initiative so far, and i do not think that we should continue this procedure. i would ask that we vote on this initiative tomorrow and not refer it back to committee. i shall not be applying for this tomorrow. i think we should go together in the direction that the commission - as it has already indicated in a committee meeting - will present a well-founded proposal on the basis of the original council document, and that we can then discuss it in a factual manner and come to a sensible solution.
commission - madam president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr schmitt, for the work he has done in preparing his report and the draft resolution. you said that the shape of the initiative has changed several times and i think that after my speech you will see that it has changed again at the last minute. to be absolutely clear, the commission shares the objectives of strengthening external border controls and combating illegal immigration, which are clearly stated in the text of the spanish initiative. this is to harmonise practices already in place in several member states for the transmission of apis data, which should not be confused with pnr data. the personal data in question are limited to the information contained in passengers' travel documents, which they must in any event present when crossing the external borders. in addition, the level of data protection offered by the text on which parliament is being consulted was sufficiently high and was approved by the article 29 committee. however, at yesterday's justice and home affairs council, the draft directive was politically agreed after amendments proposed by the united kingdom were included to allow data to be stored beyond the 24 hour period initially provided for in the initiative and used for wider purposes. these amendments, which change the scope of the directive, have raised doubts on the part of the commission, which expressed them in a statement attached to the final text. in this statement, the commission states that the directive must be interpreted in the light of the objectives it set itself, namely the strengthening of border controls and the fight against illegal immigration. in addition, the commission regrets that the provisions added to the united kingdom's request could not be considered in the context of the measures which the commission had committed itself to present by june 2004. these measures concern data protection and the exchange of information between law enforcement authorities in the light, in particular, of the declaration adopted by the european council on the fight against terrorism. the commission is also sensitive to the concerns of the carriers involved in this joint effort. however, the logistical and financial consequences of implementing the measures covered by the present proposal should not be overestimated. in addition to the fact that the personal data in question are limited to the information mentioned in the passengers' travel documents, which carriers are already obliged to check at the time of boarding, it should be noted that the transmission of such data will, under the provisions of the directive, only take place at the request of the competent national authorities. in any case, the commission is prepared to enter into a dialogue with the carriers on this matter.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, rejecting the initiative of the outgoing spanish government, should not be rejected by this house. we have already made two important decisions this afternoon. the house has already, with good reason, clearly rejected the transfer of passenger data to the american border and security authorities, and the collective expulsion by european airlines has also been rejected today - thank god. why, i ask, should a measure which is highly problematic in terms of data protection suddenly be unproblematic as long as it concerns only the european union? or should all means be justified in combating so-called illegal immigration and should fundamental rights no longer count? the fundamental right to information self-determination is a precious asset that we must not treat lightly. it is clear and unequivocal not only from the national constitutions of the member states but also from article 8 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the ec data protection directive sets high standards for the transfer of personal data. the spanish initiative, on the other hand, puts - and unfortunately the rapporteur supports - the fight against illegal immigration by means of strict control measures as its main objective. illegal immigration - all experience shows this and it must be said clearly - is not to be fought by police repression but solely by creating peaceful and humane conditions in other parts of europe and the world. the intention to have passenger data collected and shared by airlines is extremely problematic in several respects. this would not only confer on private enterprises sovereign rights which are hitherto reserved for state bodies in the member states, but also in cases of default or in other cases requiring special justification. i think that it is not acceptable in europe that the travel behaviour of millions of people should be monitored. what happens if the data is misused? i don't think we should be imagining this together. the allegation that this is about fighting illegal immigration is also not credible. i think it is absurd to assume that the poorest of the poor who come to us are mostly those who fly in the expensive airplane. the reality is different. the large number of people who drown every day trying to cross the mediterranean or border rivers speaks a very different language. it is important, i think, to put a stop to the excessive collective anger of the authorities and not to take a path that is rightly criticised by all civil rights organisations in the usa. europe does not need to have its travellers and its borders monitored without fail. the european union needs to protect the fundamental rights of all its citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i have been a member of this house for 15 years and for 15 years we in my group have been calling for the budgeting of the edf. it is an untenable situation that there is a fund with such a financial volume that is not subject to any parliamentary democratic control. i think that control needs to be established. the report by mr scarbonchi also gives ample evidence of how this control can be ensured without prejudice to the acp countries, because it is clear that special considerations must be made here if the acp countries are not to suffer any disadvantages. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is imperative that the european parliament, in partnership with the joint parliamentary assembly, should be able to exert influence. the implementation of the objectives of the cotonou agreement must of course be the priority, but this european parliament can also have an accountability to the public which has not been the case until now. i would like to summarize some of the requirements which are essential and which are set out in the report: the first is to respect the principle of partnership with the acp countries - i think this is a matter of course - and to give legal certainty and reliability, above all to the poorest of the poor, to the least developed countries, which are not unjustly worried that they might run out of money. the aim is to make medium-term financial planning possible and not to stick to the principle of annuality, which would make development cooperation impossible in the long term. the first thing to be done, of course, as has been said many times here, is to guarantee a certain amount of money. but, more importantly, this financial volume must not be diverted, but must be made available to the acp countries in a binding manner and its use must be agreed with them in partnership. if these criteria are met, then i believe that prejudices and reservations are also removed. we hope that the commission will support us in this, and above all that the council will support us.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her good cooperation. safety is the central issue in aviation - not just aviation, but aviation in particular, and not just since the tragic accident at sharm el-sheikh. as air transport is global, more and more aircraft from third countries land at european airports. and one black sheep is enough to compromise security. the directive we are adopting tomorrow is therefore of paramount importance for transport policy and also in the eyes of the public. finally, we are establishing uniform procedures throughout europe for the safety checks of aircraft from third countries, thus ensuring a high level of safety. the following points are important to me: firstly, the implementation of uniform ex ante controls in cases of suspicion and of random checks on aircraft which have been found to be defective more frequently in the past, as well as on all other aircraft. secondly, the collection and publication of all relevant safety information both on incidents and on the measures taken. this transparency will lead to the existence of black and white lists, short and long. i would prefer, of course, to see white, as the french government once suggested, as a practical quality label for safe airlines for the benefit of all passengers and for greater transparency also for package travellers. and thirdly, national measures such as flight bans, etc. can be extended to all member states according to the appropriate procedure. i think that this harmonization effort is timely, given the ever-increasing volume of air traffic.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. at the end of last year, eu transport ministers finally agreed on a common position on the amendment of the slot regulation - finally, because parliament has been waiting for this for over a year and a half! the common position takes account of many of parliament's amendments, but not all of them. i would like to give some positive examples. firstly, the independence of the coordinator remains intact. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not affected by the decisions of the council of ministers. the council has taken up this matter. the coordinators are protected from claims for damages, except in cases of gross negligence and intent, and this makes them independent and less vulnerable to blackmail. the coordinator's powers to impose sanctions in the event of misuse of a newsroom are also extended. the most important step forward for the future is, of course, that the ministers of transport accept the new definition of a slot as a right of use. i believe that this change of system is essential, also for the second phase of the future slot regulation. the council has also followed our lead and has maintained flexibility and planning security for airlines. thus, the reallocation of grandfather rights is still possible, for operational reasons or in the event that the reallocation of a sequence of time slots leads to a closer approach to the originally requested time slots. the commission has been too restrictive in this respect. in addition, the exceptions to the 'use it or lose it' rule have been rightly extended. now, unforeseeable events, like 9/11, and unavoidable circumstances beyond the control of the airlines are also covered. these few examples show: we have achieved a great deal from the parliament's point of view - from our point of view. we therefore want and should adopt the common position without amendments so that the regulation can be finally adopted. i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. here the ministers of transport have lifted the ban on the niche trade in newspapers. this leaves a black hole in the regulation where slots disappear. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. i therefore call on the commission to submit a new proposal later this year. this proposal must establish uniform and transparent rules for the trade in newspapers and periodicals throughout europe. the new system of slot allocation is then fully implemented. i thank all my colleagues for the good cooperation.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we have made a great deal of progress with the proposal to revise the current community rules on the allocation of slots at airports. i would also like to say that i was pleased at the time with the pragmatic approach which parliament has always shown with this dossier and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr stockmann, on the excellent work he has done. i do not like the whole content of the council's common position either - the honourable member knows that very well - and, in particular, the fact that the council did not accept the small elements which had been introduced in the aspect of the marketing of slots, which made it possible to clarify the current situation. but if i had not also shown that pragmatism, unfortunately, this would still be blocked. as the honourable member has rightly said, and as we all know, there are very positive elements in the document from a technical point of view, which make it worthwhile for us to be able to put it forward. the most important thing is that we finally know what a slot is, we know what a time zone is, because, until now, we didn't know what the legal nature of it was. we did not know very well what that was, which has enormous value - and we have seen it in the case of the purchase, sale or bankruptcy of airlines. it's called grandfather rights, but what kind of rights? now we know what kind of rights we're talking about. the clarification of the legal nature of the time slots is what will enable us to move on to the next step, which i hope i can present before the end of the year. and in that sense i made a statement to the council's minutes when it adopted the common position, which i accepted, that before the end of the year we will put forward a legislative proposal to bring about the clarification and proper regulation of the market, exchange and trading of these rights. today we are proceeding to approve the nature of those rights. with this proposal we can establish, in addition to the current system, which in theory does not allow any negotiation of these rights, a clarification of how these rights can be negotiated within a transparent system, taking into account that there are public service aspects clearly associated with the use of these time slots at different airports. in any case, we have already started the preparatory work for this. we are consulting the states of the union and the various interested parties. we did that in the past, before we made this proposal. the answers we got back then were not the most adequate. i hope that we will now have them and that they will enable us to present this document before the end of the year and, in any case, i believe, mr president, that the step forward we are taking today is very important and that it greatly improves both the technical and the legal aspects. we finally say what a slot is, which is not a small thing, considering its economic value at the moment.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we're a really intimate group of experts. my group supports the rapporteur's proposal to adopt the common position. we also thank the rapporteur for the work he has done behind the scenes with the council. it's important that we close this file. i would like to stress, madam commissioner, madam vice-president, that when we are revising the slot regulation, we will agree that a slot is a right of use which entitles an air carrier to use an airport for landing or for taking off at a specific date and time. this right of use is not owned by an airline or an airport, but this newspaper belongs to the general public, and that is the crucial point. i am very grateful to you, madam vice-president, for pointing out that you will endeavour to submit the revision of the next regulation by november. i personally believe that - and i would agree with the rapporteur in his report - it must be made absolutely clear that slots are not owned by the airport or the airlines and cannot be traded! you can make up rules about exchange and change, but let me tell you, the british airways slots at heathrow are not british airways capital, which they give away generously for money. the slots belong to the general public, whether in frankfurt, whether in paris or at any airport. i am very grateful to the council, parliament and the commission for agreeing to strengthen the role of the coordinators and to strengthen their independence, because the task of the coordinator is to ensure the effective use of airports and airspace in the public interest and to give neither airlines nor airports advantages or disadvantages. the aim is to ensure the best use of airports for airlines and passengers, both economically and ecologically. i am grateful to you, mr stockmann, for having brought this dossier to a successful conclusion before the end of the parliamentary term, and we should all be voting in favour of the stockmann report tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in view of the time saved, allow me to make two comments: firstly, madam president, you are absolutely right that the newspaper stands must respect the rights of the grandfather, but it must not lead to the buying and selling of slots. secondly, we are pleased that mr minetta is coming, and we are pleased that the talks on common airspace are proceeding, but i am reminded of the famous story: 'beware of the greeks when they bring gifts!' the same is true for the americans. let me say, as one of the most senior colleagues in this room, that it has been a pleasure to work with you for so long, particularly in the field of aviation. thank you, madam vice president.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in germany we know the so-called eavesdropping attack as the ultimate means in the fight against the most serious organized crime. the investigation authorities may use it for law enforcement purposes only under strict legal conditions and subject to the supervision of the judiciary. the federal constitutional court has only recently tightened the limits. yesterday, late at night, a member of this house was able to boast on a german television programme that he had been using this method in the european parliament for years as a self-appointed investigator against colleagues without any control. the programme showed hidden camera footage of alleged thefts, particularly at the end of the plenary week in strasbourg. the programme ended with the threat that they would meet again soon, because literally: "the day after tomorrow is another strasbourg friday". i shall have to do my political duty here in the house tomorrow and also document my presence in the central register. i want to be able to do this without being hindered and without fear of the threat of camera hijacking. so i would like to ask you: how has it been ensured that i and all other colleagues can carry out our duties in the service of the citizens of europe without fear? how can peace be restored? the european parliament, as a constitutional body, will continue to be subject to attempts at coercion? (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on regional policy, transport and tourism. thank you very much, mr president. i should like to begin by emphasizing that the statement my colleague mr verheugen has just made on the future prospects of the european union is not at all in line with the opinion of the majority of the christian democrats in this house. i value that statement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the common agricultural policy. in regional policy, the lack of decentralised structures is particularly to be criticised. but these structures are indispensable to us. we need them to ensure that the eu funds for regional development and cohesion policy are distributed in an orderly and comprehensible way. it is not possible to seriously demand ever more money from the turkish side if the administration is not able to pay it out in an orderly and transparent manner. yes, and transport policy is really in trouble in turkey. there is no progress towards alignment with eu law and standards in any of the modes of transport. there are still appalling shortcomings everywhere: in the safety of air traffic management, in railways, in maritime transport, in road transport. there are particular shortcomings in road transport, for example in social legislation - driving and rest periods are a good example - in driver training and, again, particularly in the area of safety. and that's not entirely uncritical. it is also a matter of transporting a lot of dangerous goods. and these deficits in road transport in particular are endangering not only transport within turkey but also, and increasingly, transport within the european union. there is an urgent need for action. the biggest scandal, and this is a real scandal, is the fact that turkey is on the blacklist of countries that do not have serious port state controls. that is to say, a large number of the ships which are a ticking time bomb on our seas as sellers of souls sail under the turkish flag. this is unworthy of a candidate country, as it is unworthy of any other country in the world, but especially of a candidate country to the european union, it is an intolerable situation. as long as turkey does not have a national programme to remedy all these shortcomings, we must inevitably doubt its willingness to align itself with our rules. of course, these are not pre-entry criteria. but the pre-accession criteria have not been met in any of the points. it's just that everything takes time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is not doing anyone a favour, not the european union, and not turkey itself.
the commission has already done so. i think it is of enormous importance that turkey will be closely associated with us. it's of great strategic interest to us. secondly, it is in our great interest that turkey should be a democratic country, a country governed by the rule of law, and that we should support developments in this direction. but i have several unanswered questions. turkey is the country with the most advanced relative democracy and rule of law in the entire region. at the same time, kemalism is an obstacle to membership of the european union for a number of reasons. but is it not because of kemalism and the influence of the army that turkey has a relative democracy and the rule of law? this is a contradiction in itself. this is a difficult question to examine, one that we must not lose sight of these days. secondly, unlike mr lagendijk, i believe that the fulfilment of the political criteria is a condition for negotiations. we did the same thing with slovakia. that is why slovakia has not been in the boat since 1997. and we should keep that in mind here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in order to meet the political criteria, it is not enough to have taken decisions in the legislative process, but they must be put into practice. the rule of law and human rights must not only be decided by the grand national assembly, but also be submitted to the magistrate in eastern anatolia and put into practice. and here i have my doubts whether this will be possible by november. i have no doubt that the present government wants this, but i doubt that it will be possible. we shall have to examine this in the autumn. just as we have to examine, for example, whether - as the german minister of the interior has said - turkey cannot be a safe third country in the sense of the asylum procedure, because no country in germany accepts as many asylum seekers as turkey. but if you are recognised as an asylum seeker, the other country cannot have the rule of law. this question must be answered accordingly. we must continue to see the need to review the european union's capacity for integration. how far does the european union have the binding force to prevent what mr van orden has said from happening? because we must see that some of the people here are aiming to destroy the european union by enlargement. i would like to say that i am not against the idea of a european parliament. and i think that not only because of turkey, but also because of other countries in europe, we need options for a relationship with countries that are not full members, also within the framework of a new european economic area. in any case, these countries should not have full membership, at least for the time being. the very option of full membership will cause us great difficulties in turkey, in ukraine and in the western balkans in the coming years. and that's why we should develop new ideas. finally, mr president, i would like to see the european parliament take a clear position on the cyprus question only when we have access to the necessary documents, as was the case with german unity, for example, where we even set up a special committee on this question.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank mr oostlander, who has dealt very closely with the question of turkey and its development towards a democratic state based on the rule of law, including in his own-initiative report. i think it is time for europe to give an answer to the question of how we want to make the relations between the european union and turkey lasting. i would like to say that i am very saddened that the debate still seems to be dominated by the view that there are only two options in turkey's relations with the european union: non-membership or full membership. we are completely forgetting that there is a whole bouquet of individual cooperation possibilities between the european union and other countries. i myself come from a region that borders switzerland. we have agreed with switzerland on a privileged partnership in which we have solved common problems, but in which everyone can develop accordingly. that is what we are talking about when we talk about turkey. of course, mr verheugen is right that we should stabilise the forces driving the reforms. but is there really only one instrument, namely full membership? is there not another way of ensuring that turkey develops democratically, economically and stably, which is in our interest as europeans, without forcibly joining the european union? that is what we should be talking about very openly and very honestly. i would like to ask the commission or the remains of this commission, which is dissolving itself when it prepares its report for the heads of state or government in the autumn of this year to look very closely at the question of whether the political criteria are met or not. i myself come from a country where people from turkey are still granted asylum because they are persecuted by the state. is this a country with which accession negotiations can then be held? i deny that. i would also ask the council to look very seriously at the matter, because it ultimately needs the consent of the european parliament. if the heads of state and government think they can make such fundamental decisions over the heads of the people of this europe, they are mistaken. if they think that there will be an automatic process in the end, that parliament and the people - we are dealing in part with ratification referenda in individual member states - will then join in, they are mistaken. i think that we as the european parliament have a great opportunity here today to reflect on this and to send a signal to the people of the european union that we take very seriously the concerns and expectations of the people of turkey and our other neighbours around our european union. we have other options than just discussing full membership, and we should develop them together now!
i have to say, madam president, helmut kohl was recently asked on german television how he felt about turkey's accession. he referred to the copenhagen criteria. even after repeated requests from the reporter, he did not say no to turkey's accession. i think he's right. because for 40 years this country on the bosphorus has been promised membership, anything else would be a destabilization of the people in turkey and also of the political climate we have in europe. parliament should therefore not take any decision which would prevent the option of accession. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i hope that the majority will not be reached. the ball is clearly in turkey's court. it must demonstrate that the copenhagen criteria are met. we see that a great deal has been done. but it's not enough! there is still a lot to be done on the road to democracy, the rule of law and freedom. we have spoken to the minorities in this country, especially the kurds, about freedom. there's a lot of paperwork, but it's not yet working in practice in schools, on tv, in the use of their language. i also receive letters from citizens complaining about the arbitrary treatment they are receiving from the police and the judiciary. a bad chapter that turkey must clean up! police and the judiciary are not democratic. there's a lot of things that have to happen. i also believe that the civilian institutions must have full power, and the military must go where it belongs, to the barracks. it can't be that the military, the national security council, has the upper hand in decision-making there. i agree with commissioner verheugen that turkey has embarked on a major reform programme. it is also a great experiment in the democratic and liberal constitution of an islamic country, and we should encourage it. we should not say no, but we should keep the opportunity for further reforms open and then vote accordingly.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to commend mr oostlander for his report and for the search for compromise. there is no doubt in this parliament that turkey is and will remain an important partner. but partnership does not automatically mean full membership of the european union. mr leinen has just mentioned the 1963 association agreement. it is expressly worded in a negative way. it says: 'later accession to the european economic community is not excluded'. that's the wording, no more and no less. turkey has now, for the first time, started to change the law after two decades of complete stagnation. this is certainly a positive step towards greater democracy and human rights. but even the turkish prime minister has announced that he will amend another 15 to 20 constitutional paragraphs in april and may, but these do not yet include important demands of the european parliament, such as freedom of religion and the abolition of the 10% clause for the protection of political minorities. that is why we have tabled motions which, in addition to the decision 'full membership: yes or no', present an alternative, namely that of a privileged partnership. no one should assume that the council has the sole decision here. the next elected parliament which will be in office between 2004 and 2009 must have full sovereignty to say yes or no and to develop alternatives. i therefore ask the house to treat the amendments we have tabled in this connection in the way that is consistent with the dignity of this parliament and our own position. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to achieve their goals. turkey must take note that the criteria include not only the cyprus question but also the question of whether the european union itself is capable of accepting turkey at all. we cannot afford to take on adventures which would push the eu to the limits of its political and economic capacity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank all the colleagues in this parliament who have spoken and who have, for the most part, offered the same speech in every debate on turkey, and to make it clear that they do not want turkey and the turks in the european union. i thank you for five years of cooperation and for your patience in this parliament as a turkish. i really am very, very grateful. this is a great achievement for this parliament, thank you very much. i came to this parliament as a german, i worked very hard as a german member of parliament for five years, but i am leaving this parliament as a turk. many of you have made a fool of me because i am ashamed of these speeches, which can really only be described as double standards, these speeches which have nothing to do with honesty. others may be proud of their courageous defence of the union of christians against turkey, and may even find some voters, but i am ashamed of it, it is not my european union. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. as the chairman of the european parliament's delegation to the three countries of the south caucasus, which includes armenia, i have been repeatedly asked to make a special request. first of all, i should like to thank mr oostlander for his balanced report and also for the way in which he has tackled turkey's problems with its neighbours, particularly with neighbouring armenia. two problems are at the forefront: firstly, turkey's economic boycott of armenia. the closure of the turkish-armenian border has made the transport of goods to armenia more expensive. this is counteracting the european union's economic aid to armenia. the commission has also been active in the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering, and has been active in the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism. the second is that historical facts between turkey and armenia have not been worked out. this hinders mutual understanding and prevents mutual trust from developing. in the end, unfortunately, turkey has ensured that armenia is not involved in the negotiations on energy transport and the construction of the pipelines from the caspian sea region, which is rich in natural gas and oil, but on the contrary, is bypassed. these are all things that the people of armenia do not unjustly complain about. these conflicts have not been resolved so far. they not only oppose turkey's goal of joining the european union, but also massively impede the european union's goal of stabilizing the south caucasus region.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am a little surprised at the execution of my colleague, who said something quite different last night. i am against referral back and would ask you to put the legislative proposal to the vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted in favour of the resolution, which is broadly balanced, although i think there are some essential points missing. firstly, i believe that there can be no solution to the kosovo problem without first making clear decisions on the future of kosovo. the standards cannot be achieved without defining the status to which one aspires. i think that the way we have been going is wrong. secondly, i think that the united nations interim administration has discredited itself to such an extent that it should be replaced by a european civilian administration which would be better controlled and could enjoy more respect if it avoided the mistakes of unmik. the third and final point i would like to make is that there is talk that the kosovo albanian leaders have not condemned the riots in sufficient terms. you made it clear. president rugova has called for a national day of mourning for both nationalities, while the serbian prime minister has led a nationalist demonstration in belgrade, where people shouted: "kill the albanians!"
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i welcome the baltas report as a cautious step towards croatia's eu membership, although i must say that we have already gone further, because this house has clearly expressed its support for candidate status and for croatia's accession in the next round of accession with the brok report. i'm saying we should stick to that line. croatia is not in the same row as the member states joining us on 1 may, through no fault of its own. but in many respects it is at least as ready to join as some of the countries that will join us on 1 may, and i think we should give croatia massive support to ensure that it is in the next round of enlargement.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the oostlander report, although it contains many good ideas. i would like to express my support for the line taken by mr bourlanges. we want a strong turkey as a good partner, but we also want a functioning and stable european union. the european union is being destabilised by turkey becoming a full member of the european union. but if you only pretend to turkey that it has a real chance of being a candidate, you will end up destabilising turkey, because you will be luring it with unrealistic promises and then disappointing it by raising the criteria higher and higher. i'm not ready to play this game. i am in favour of an honest turkish policy which says that everything has its limits, including an integrated europe. turkey must be our closest partner, and as far as byzantium is concerned, we can say that st augustine came from what is now algeria, he was one of the fathers of the west, and yet i would not accept present-day algeria, or even the future - even a democratic algeria - into the european union. the european union is not the union of all the democratic countries of the world that meet the copenhagen criteria, but of all the european countries that meet the copenhagen criteria and wish to join.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i'd like to join in the congratulations. i would like to thank the commissioner for developing this thematic strategy and i would also encourage her to continue on this issue because i believe that we are at a stage in europe at the moment where we have to think about whether we can continue the waste policy as we have done so far or whether we have new knowledge and do not just have to turn some screws, but maybe also make a system change here and there. the first rule, which the commission and we in parliament have taken up, is that we must urgently take care of the implementation of the law in force in europe. the implementation of the landfill directive, for example, is to say the least miserable. some countries are overdoing it, but some countries are doing nothing at all. i think that we must therefore not only ensure a high level of protection but also ensure that these things are implemented. the second thing that i am very concerned about is that we are making sure that in the waste and recycling sectors, parallel regulations or papers, such as reach, ivo, but also integrated product policy and the resource strategy - which should have been discussed now - are compatible with this report. otherwise, i think there would be a leak here and there would be loopholes that we don't want. we welcome the commission's approach to developing sustainable waste management with equal ecological, economic and social parameters, i.e. sustainable policy. we also believe that the entire life cycle of resources, but also of waste policy, must be considered together; the whole life cycle must be considered, not just a part of it. i can only emphasize the need to draw up cost-benefit analyses, commissioner. i think that the commission has a duty to do so. i do not want to question the sustainable combination in the waste hierarchy at all. but we must also make this waste hierarchy more transparent and flexible, because prevention, reuse, recycling, energy recovery and environmentally sound disposal of waste are old and well-established tools. the order is also correct. but i would like to emphasize again the flexibility that we really need here. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection then clearly addressed the issues of where more proposals for harmonisation need to be made and where existing rules need to be actually implemented in the implementation. i am very pleased that in future recycling plants will also be given certain rules and system concepts, that in the case of recycling plants too, one does not mean this and the other that. i hope the committee and the commission will agree with me that the competitiveness of secondary raw materials must be guaranteed just as much as that of primary raw materials. i believe that external help is also needed here, probably from the fiscal side, so that secondary raw materials can develop into a suitable and, above all, continuous flow for the manufacturing industry. the question of the landfill directive is a difficult one. we are discussing with our green friends whether we should introduce a landfill tax here. i don't think so, it just makes the european location more expensive. i am very much hoping that the standards for landfills will finally be brought to a comparable level. to collect taxes is about the simplest thing in the world. but the necessary uniform standards for landfills would also bring about a harmonization of costs. that would be the more sensible course. we have therefore proposed standardization and a genuine european landfill regulation, and we have also obtained a large majority in favour of this. another important point - one should hardly believe it - is whether we have a demarcation line between recycling and disposal and so on and so forth. all these things are covered in this directive in future. they are pursued by the commission and by you in a targeted manner. i thank all the colleagues who have contributed to this paper and hope that we will reach a good conclusion.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as we know, the international conference on renewable energy will be held in bonn in the first days of june. the german chancellor had announced this conference in johannesburg at the world summit on sustainable development in 2002. i think that was a really important outcome, this conference. you have just mentioned it, commissioner. i think that, particularly those who were also in johannesburg, were extremely disappointed with the result in johannesburg as far as renewable energy is concerned. although it is welcome, as you have just said, that the johannesburg coalition is now showing some initial successes, it was in johannesburg that the objectives we wanted to achieve there were not achievable, despite the very serious and very strong efforts of the european union. i think it is extremely important that this bonn conference should be a success. you have referred, madam commissioner, to the european preparatory conference in berlin, which took place in january and which, with more than 650 participants from 45 countries, set out very clear expectations of the bonn conference, but also clear expectations of the european union, of the policies of the european union. i think that the european union has developed its strategy for the expansion of renewable energies in a truly exemplary way: doubling the share of renewable energy to 12% by 2010 and doubling the share of electricity to 22.1%. we have the market penetration campaign, we have the laws to promote electricity or the biofuels you mentioned. we are in the process of - and this is important - following up on efficiency through the ecodesign directive and energy services. but what is important now is that this strategy is really continued and intensified. i do not need to mention the keywords - the problem of climate protection, finite resources, reducing dependence on imports, creating jobs in this area. i think that it is important to look beyond 2010 and - i say this now, unlike you, commissioner - to set a new target here. it was not just that the berlin conference called for a study, but that the berlin conference made it very clear in its final decisions that it wanted at least a 20% target for 2020. and you can see it in our compromise resolution, which we have, that we expect the commission and the council to commit themselves to this and then to set policy accordingly. it is important that new measures be found in the future in the event of an intensification. we see that it is possible under certain circumstances - you have expressed doubts - to reach the target of 22.1% in the electricity sector, especially if we look at the development in countries with a clear feed-in system. it is difficult or almost impossible to achieve the objective in the field of heating and cooling. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of national and community taxation. but it is also important to integrate the renewable energy sector into many other european union policies: structural policy, regional policy, mediterranean policy, for example, and certainly development cooperation policy. we know that three billion people in the world live without access to electricity, and it's a very important part of the poverty reduction to focus here on what's a real opportunity here, which is decentralized renewable energy systems. and that is why we have made it very clear in our resolution that it is necessary to provide for appropriate measures, that is to say that financing agencies such as the european investment bank and others must also give priority to renewable energy and energy efficiency.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it may surprise you to know that in 25 years, you can extract as much energy from one cubic centimeter of silicon as you can from one cubic centimeter of uranium. it is true that it surprised me, and it underlines the enormous potential that is also lurking in renewable energy. the second point concerns the bonn conference. i would like to encourage the european parliament to be represented at this conference in the form of a delegation. a number of parliaments around the world will be sending delegations to bonn. it would be a shame if the european parliament did not appear visibly with a group of members who have an official mandate. thirdly, the resolution - mrs rothe has rightly pointed out this - contains the word 'poverty reduction' twice. i think it's extremely important that we connect climate policy, energy policy and poverty reduction. the instrument, or at least one of the instruments, for this purpose is, for example, decentralized energy supply systems based on renewable energies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has thankfully recently published a very interesting brochure in which it has outlined the funds which can be mobilised in this way for the renewable energy sector in the mediterranean alone. these are extremely surprisingly high figures that are mentioned. i think this is a tool that could be used much more effectively. after all, renewable energy must be financed, and we all know that it is not cheap. one last note: what worries me a little bit about renewables is that we're in a boom period right now. the whole world is talking about it, renewable energy has a good press, and that's a good thing. but who knows what will happen in a few years when the cost goes up? will the acceptance be the same, or will people say, well, a little less is good, we're a little behind? this would be extremely dangerous, because it would reduce continuity in a sector which is also part of our industrial policy. this means that we need continuity, and the small and mediumsized enterprises that have invested in it need security. (interruption of the debate) yes, the costs are falling, but they are still relatively high. i am very familiar with the discussions at home about the cost of renewable energy. in germany alone, it is estimated that in a few years we will probably have costs of 4 to 5 billion euros. it may well be that for many this is a pain threshold that they do not want to cross. i'm just warning you not to break the continuity, but to keep it. because those who invest in it today should also be safe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's very brief, but it's important. i would first of all like to protest against the fact that we have cancelled the urgent debate today and the question time and the debate on the european capital of culture the day before yesterday, although we had enough time to do so. secondly, i would like to make a personal statement on behalf of the so-called friday club. i thank the colleagues who are here for doing their duty here until tonight. they used to do this until friday afternoon, when it was still possible. it is outrageous that there is a person here who is trying to criminalize these very colleagues who are doing their duty in an exemplary manner. i will be working here tonight, i will be working here until noon tomorrow, on behalf of my constituents. i am in favour of this, i think it is our duty. i am glad that everyone is doing his duty here, instead of going around defaming and discrediting this parliament. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if you had to be driven around by the so-called drive-by attitude in the house this week, you would certainly have been galling. what is happening in the catacombs of this great house, especially at night, is a scandal. we had to wait for a car in the open air for up to 40 minutes as a "waiting party". i don't blame the drivers, they're doing a great job. it's probably some official or director in the administration who's been painting 17 vehicles this week. how long are we going to allow this unreasonable patronage of officials in the house? i ask you to see that the service is organised in a members' friendly manner. if you are looking for an example of good vehicle service, look - and i am allowed to say this as a german member of parliament - once in berlin, the drive is really a drive and a service for the members! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there are indiscriminate accusations in the german media against me and some of my colleagues that we have acted wrongly. we have had this discussion before in this house. unfortunately, it's not my work that's being reported, but the fact that there seems to be something wrong with my behavior. but since i cannot assess the charges against me, i ask you, mr president, to look into this. the german media also report that you have an appointment with this member of parliament this week and that this member will hand you lists. if that is the case, mr president, i ask you to examine immediately whether i or my colleagues can be held responsible. if so, please forward all documents immediately to the european court of justice or the european court of auditors and to olaf. of course, it would also be nice if you could inform those who are being accused in the media of really very ugly, very dirty and very unpleasant things, what they are being accused of, whether they have done bad work or whether they have broken a law. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm very grateful for what you just said. mrs roth-behrendt has spoken about the substance of the allegations that we are misusing funds here, and you have said your own. i would like to reiterate the form in which these allegations have been made over the last three years. the member in question has used a hidden camera to follow his colleagues at work, thereby breaking all the rules of openness, trust and collegiality. i cannot imagine that the european parliament will accept this without criticism. the victims are not individuals, but the whole parliament, if the work is being investigated here in a kind of espionage. i would ask you to condemn this as well, in the interests of all colleagues. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say on behalf of my group that we would like to support many aspects of this report, but that the report as a whole is not balanced, that it is also nonsensical and contradictory in some respects, and that everything is repeated a thousand times. i would ask that we now take a step back from this report and that we take up again in the autumn the important points contained in it. because i think they deserve some really intense, serious, serious counseling.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have been dealing with eurostat for many weeks and months, and you know that there was a strong group here in parliament which even wanted to go so far as to express its distrust of the commission. i have always been opposed to expressing distrust of the commission, but there is a legitimate interest in this parliament to hear the commission's assessment of eurostat's activities. it is a sign of fairness, openness and transparency that we then hear this statement from the commission and talk about it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as elections approach, politicians are always extremely inventive in how to use parliamentary procedures for their own election campaign. i would remind mr pöttering that tomorrow, in the discharge debate, we will be debating the report by his own group colleague, mr bayona de perogordo, in which there is a whole passage on eurostat. i would also remind him that it is quite clear that we all in this house expect the commission to make a statement on this passage tomorrow. it is absurd to burden parliament with a procedure which is only for the sake of internal peace within the epp, because the british tories have not managed to gather enough signatures for the motion of censure against the commission. it must also be made clear that some of the tricks used to try to divert water to the campaign mills are also being noticed. and then you have to vote against it. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the epp group takes a very pragmatic approach to this question of bringing an action before the european court of justice. our concern is this: if there is no such agreement as the commissioner has outlined, it will result in a considerable burden for our citizens when they enter the united states. all the information that the united states demands, if they do not get it in this way, they will get it in other ways, whether it be through appropriate questioning at the border or through visa requirements and questioning in the consulates-general. secondly, if this agreement is not reached, the legal situation for our citizens in terms of data protection will be much worse, not better, because then we will have no influence at all on what the united states does with the data requested. in this context, we thank the commission for its efforts and, as a group, we have opposed the referral to the court of justice both in the debate in the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs and in the decision-making process in the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the socialist group, on whose behalf i am speaking, also thanks the rapporteur for a very important report, because it is a key element in the defence of democracy in the european union. our group has fought hard in the convention on the charter of fundamental rights and in the convention on the constitution to ensure that the eu is not just an economic community but a community of values, built on centuries of achievements and seeking to defend democracy, freedom, human rights and the rule of law throughout this union. you have to wonder what holds this great union together from estonia to portugal. it is certainly not the market but the sense of belonging to values that makes europe. this is europe, this is identity, and this is not to be lost. we need a mechanism to guarantee that these values are also respected. the citizens would not understand if a member state were to lose its way and the union did nothing. of course, we do not wish to interfere in the internal affairs of any state. we are a union of great plurality, of great diversity. but when there are clear threats and long-term violations of these values and principles, the eu must act. i am very glad that the commissioner has said that this could lead to sanctions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that parliament has a special role to play here, as the report has emphasized.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. for exactly seven years now, the council and the commission have been unable to set up a procedure for implementing article 7, which was then celebrated with amsterdam as an important political innovation in the eu treaty. but without clear procedural rules, the paper on which the union's values are upheld is patient. without such a procedure, the whole article remains a paper tiger. this situation is not conducive to strengthening the credibility of the european union among its citizens. you know very well how low it is in all our member states. the commission's communication, which is the starting point for this report, is, to say the least, strange. it is extremely strange that the commission clearly does not want any sanctions against member states for serious breaches of the treaty. obviously, she wants to tell us that everything is in butter with us and everything will remain in butter. what does it mean when the commission states on page 14 of its communication that 'the imposition of sanctions under article 7 (3) of the treaty on european union and article 309 of the ec treaty will not be necessary in this union'? such a perversion would seriously undermine our own high standards of our common values and ultimately the level of protection of fundamental rights and values in the union. this also reminds us of the often used formula of repression, that what cannot be cannot be. the commission's vogel-strauss policy of indifference to the protection of fundamental rights in wartime is even more serious, and this is the real scandal. it is that the commission serves the union's fundamental rights on a silver platter in times of war. i quote from the commission communication, p. 8: 'a serious infringement, on the other hand, requires the danger to be substantial. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. the practical application of such a law would be a serious violation. you have to let it melt in your mouth. the commission considers that a law in a member state which abolishes fundamental rights only constitutes a clear threat, not a serious infringement, let alone a sanction. no, not like that. this is where parliament must stop the commission's fundamentalist witch-hunt, and it is against this background that i am glad that parliament has taken the initiative with the voggenhuber report to finally act seven years after amsterdam. i have tabled a number of amendments to clarify the text of the draft. in particular, the draft constitutional convention also commits the union to respecting international law, both in article 3 (4) in part i and article 193 (1) in part iii of the draft constitution, and i believe that, particularly in the light of the war in iraq, which is contrary to international law, and the misery being inflicted there by the occupying forces, further clarifications are needed in the resolution of the report.
commission. mr president, just a year ago this parliament adopted its resolution on the commission's new consumer policy strategy for the next five years. we are discussing today three key proposals within the context of that strategy. i am particularly pleased that parliament has decided to discuss them jointly, as all three pursue the objective of boosting consumer confidence in the internal market. consumer purchases represent close to 60% of the eu's gdp. a loss of consumer confidence – even by a small amount – can have significant repercussions for our economy and collective wealth. last month, at the spring european council, the heads of state and government took stock of our pursuit of the lisbon agenda, which aims to boost the competitiveness of our economy. it would be no exaggeration to say that there is definitely room for improvement in this respect. consumer confidence is good for business and would contribute to boosting our competitiveness. the european union has come a long way in eliminating barriers in the single market. in tearing down regulatory barriers we must, however, realise that consumers – the demand side of the market – are also confronted with barriers, namely confidence barriers. not addressing these confidence barriers would not only be irresponsible but also very damaging to the interests of consumers and businesses alike. it would also put a heavy burden on our ability to meet our competitiveness objectives set out in the lisbon agenda. the proposals we are discussing today will allow us to maximise the benefits of the single market for consumers. i would like to thank the three rapporteurs from the committee on legal affairs and the internal market for their hard work on these proposals, as well as the rapporteurs from the committees providing opinions for their time and effort. i turn first to the proposed regulation on enforcement cooperation. it addresses what has always been the weak point in consumer protection: the effective application of the law. in cross-border cases, problems increase because national enforcement mechanisms are not designed to deal with such cases. rogue traders who seek to cheat consumers have spotted this and are more prevalent in cross-border cases than in domestic ones, targeting consumers across borders through the post, by e-mail or via websites. to deal with this, the proposed regulation sets up a network of public enforcement authorities, with at least one in each member state. the effect of the proposal will be that national authorities can cooperate quickly and effectively in tracking down rogue traders and stop them from harming consumers and legitimate businesses. this regulation will send a strong message to european citizens, telling them that the eu is relevant to their day-to-day concerns and that they can have greater confidence in shopping throughout europe. i would like to thank mrs gebhardt and colleagues who worked with her towards a compromise agreement with the council allowing for the adoption of the proposal in a single reading. the compromise that was negotiated between the institutions ensures that enforcement authorities will at last have the necessary tools at their disposal genuinely to cooperate in cross-border cases. at the same time, it respects the various traditions that exist among the different member states, with some relying more on public enforcement and others relying more on private actions. i am aware and indeed concerned that some of you would prefer the opinion of the lead committee, which is expressed in amendment no 29, over the compromise solution contained in amendment no 76, which has been worked out with the council. pursuing this approach risks leading to prolonged discussions with the council and to a second reading, further delaying the creation of an effective enforcement mechanism capable of dealing with rogue traders. i see no reason why either our businesses or our consumers would in any way benefit from such a delay. the amendments tabled and supported by some in no way enhance the effectiveness of the mechanism, neither do they present a meaningful contribution to safeguarding established national mechanisms and traditions. i therefore urge all members to stick to the compromise. this is the last legislative part-session of this parliament before the elections. it is therefore also your final opportunity to ensure that when you have to inform your voters about precisely what you have done to further consumer interests and the enforcement of law, you have a tangible example to show them. the second proposal on the table today is the proposed directive on consumer credit. there is broad agreement that a new directive on consumer credit is both necessary and desirable. the market and the products have evolved considerably since the mid-1980s and the existing directive is no longer adapted to new developments in the area of credit. this new directive is necessary to allow the emergence of a real single market in consumer credit. it is desirable in order to achieve a high level of consumer protection in line with the consumer policy action plan endorsed by the european parliament. this is the reason why i consider a full harmonisation approach the only means to really create a level playing field for lenders throughout the eu. many of you have called, and will call, for minimum harmonisation, allowing member states to top up the rules at national level. this would, however, mean maintaining differences between national legislations. it will continue to ensure that the credit market remains a domestic and local market, depriving consumers of all the advantages a single credit market could offer them. it would not improve legal certainty for creditors and consumers contracting across borders. it would not help to develop a genuine single market in consumer credit. the full harmonisation approach will not lead to a lowering of consumer protection standards, as we have rightly chosen a high common level of protection as the starting point. moreover, i would stress that the harmonisation applies to only those areas actually covered by the directive. in areas that fall outside the scope of the directive, member states remain free to maintain their own national provisions. full harmonisation will improve the overall level of consumer protection in the eu and facilitate the provision of cross-border credit. last, but not least, i come to the framework directive on unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices. this proposal aims to put in place a high common level of consumer protection against unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices eu wide. in doing so, it will stimulate consumer confidence and ensure that rogue practices can be addressed wherever in the eu they arise. just as importantly, it will reduce the barriers that prevent legitimate businesses from making the most of the internal market and reaching new consumers. both businesses and consumers will benefit from the security of having one set of rules rather than 15 or, from 1 may, 25. both business and consumers will therefore be better placed to take advantage of the enlarged internal market. this in turn will have a positive effect on the competitiveness of the eu economy as a whole. i will leave it at that for the time being and look forward to hearing your views.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are constantly hearing about the evil schemes of greedy businessmen, in whose nets citizens have become entangled. often citizens can be helped out of these clutches. in all member states, measures have been taken to protect consumers. the commission has also been active in the fight against fraud, whether through public authorities such as the office of fair trading in the united kingdom, the direction générale de la concurrence, de la consommation et de la répression des fraudes in france, the consumers' association in the netherlands or the office for the prevention of unfair competition in germany. all of them help, for example, when you find a notification in your mailbox that you have won a prize in a lottery. to receive this prize, you just need to sign and post it. a week later, you'll receive unordered goods and will be asked to pay for them. or you may be tempted by the weight-loss treatments that have recently become especially popular in teen-age magazines, which exaggerate their effectiveness and conceal possible side effects. or you're lured by an offer that turns out to be modem jacking. there is a website that offers free music downloads. you accept the offer, and in the process, the customer is unnoticed and disconnected from their usual internet provider and connected to another, much more expensive provider. the bill will come later. in the most common cases of fraud, the national authorities can provide remedies. the problem arises in about 20% of cases, where often only a fictitious address in the form of a post box in another country is known. good advice can get very expensive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. the legislation is also urgent, because the problems are mounting and we should not leave the citizens alone. i therefore, as rapporteur for parliament, have accepted the request of the irish presidency to adopt the legislation in one reading if possible. the outcome of the negotiations is now on the table. i would also like to thank the european commission for its active help in achieving this result. the law is primarily concerned with mutual assistance in enforcing consumer law. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. it is for the member states to delegate the tasks laid down in this regulation to existing authorities. we are not concerned with creating bureaucracy, but with successfully putting an end to the fraudulent machinations of some unhygienic businessmen who hide behind cross-border transactions. to this end, the public authorities may, by mutual agreement, delegate the handling of cases to non-governmental organisations, as is the tradition in germany, austria or the netherlands. i assume that in these countries the transfer of tasks to the proven bodies such as consumer centres or self-regulatory bodies of the economy will be the rule. this is the basic condition for me, as rapporteur, to recommend to my colleagues in parliament that they agree to the compromise text now before us. i see exceptions only where there is a need to exchange data of particular protection between the authorities, but we have also found clear rules in this text. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the legislative process. i hope that promise will be fulfilled tomorrow with a clear yes. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank all those who have contributed to the preparation of this very complex and comprehensive report. unfortunately, we were in the position of having to discuss a commission proposal which was not fully considered, which was poorly worded and which, above all, did not take into account the very serious consequences for consumers, for example in terms of access to credit. we therefore had to propose major changes to this directive. it has 38 articles so far and we in the committee then came to the sad record of 650 amendments, but now, thanks to your concentrated cooperation, we have been able to put them together in a fairly consistent overall work. i should also like to take this opportunity to thank very warmly the secretariat of parliament and the secretariat of the political groups and also my own staff for the countless hours they have invested in this work. ladies and gentlemen, the committee on legal affairs and the internal market would like to send three signals with this proposal: this is a signal for optimal consumer protection in the european internal market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the protection of the environment is guaranteed. on the other hand, if we were to go for maximum harmonization or full harmonization, this would mean only minimal protection for the consumer. i would like to expressly contradict what mr byrne said. in fact, i have the impression that the commission is primarily concerned with the complete centralisation of consumer law in this area, so that the european union has the sole power to act in the field of consumer protection. however, this would not be appropriate in the objective context of the continuing wide disparities between national markets and the need to respond quickly and flexibly to the emergence of unscrupulous commercial practices. the second signal is for the opening up of financial markets, including the private consumer sector. we want to use the protection standards to strengthen citizens' confidence in electronic commerce, in mail order, but also to encourage them to seek offers throughout the internal market in order to obtain favourable credit conditions. the third signal is a signal against over-regulation and bureaucracy, because it simply makes no sense to shower the average consumer - despite his maturity - with a flood of information that he cannot read, much less understand. we have therefore proposed clear information technologies which present the consumer with the key data for his credit at a glance. we also wanted to ensure that credit facilities were available, especially for the small people, the socially disadvantaged. this is the population that needs short-term loans to get by in their daily lives. the commission proposal would have meant that only those who do not need loans would be able to get them. ladies and gentlemen, i should like to mention two points which are still being discussed by the groups. one is the right to early repayment. on the one hand, there is the position that early repayment can be allowed in general without any additional cost. on the other hand, there is the position that the consumer should be given a choice between fixed and early termination loans. i would like to take a step closer to the socialist group, given that we have not yet reached agreement on this point. you have seen that i have already tabled a compromise amendment, amendment no 173, where i propose that loans with a maturity of more than three years may be repaid at any time before the due date. i would now like to combine this with amendment no 96 from the committee's recommendation, which will lead to a corresponding reduction in costs in this case. i would like to conclude, although i would like to mention a few points from the current debate. i think that this package of reports by mrs gebhardt, myself and mrs ghilardotti is the crowning achievement of our legislative work in the field of consumer law. we have always managed to live up to our responsibilities in the field of tension between the needs of the internal market and consumer protection, and i think we have put forward a piece of mature legislation here. i hope that the house will agree to this, despite all the differences in detail.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to speak only on the gebhardt report because of the lack of time. i acknowledge the efforts of the rapporteur and also of the commission to do good in the field of crossborder cooperation. there is no question about it, it is certainly a sensible thing to do. but i have my doubts whether what we have now as a proposal from the irish presidency is really an acceptable position and whether we are not creating a bureaucratic monster. i think it is absolutely wrong, firstly, that we are here, for the first time in the history of european union legislation, to intervene in the member states' organisational law with regard to the question of how they implement regulations and directives internally. and if it is to be specifically required here that member states cannot delegate certain tasks to private individuals but must carry them out through public authorities, then this is one such case, an interference with the organizational sovereignty of the member states, something which may make the whole regulation unconstitutional. the second is the bureaucratic monster - what i can only describe as a real satire - how to decide disputes. the donor member state must therefore agree to the fact that the host member state entrusts the tasks to a private individual. if that is not possible and the criteria cannot be checked by consensus, then a comitology procedure is set in motion where the commission is asked to decide and then people from 25 national capitals travel to brussels and then decide whether or not this is a matter which can be delegated to private individuals within the meaning of the directive, a regulation. we should take account of the organisational powers of the member states and the efficiency of the way in which the member states carry out the tasks. that is why i suggest that we should stick to the decision of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. if the council then comes to its senses, it will join in. mrs thyssen said earlier that there was no reason to give in here. the council must give in to us, and then it can quickly adopt it in a single reading, but on the basis of the decision of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market and not on the basis of the irish compromise proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to thank mrs ghilardotti for her excellent work in the committee in drafting this report. i would like to thank mr winter's commission and the european commission for this excellent action plan. it is a very moderate and goal-oriented paper, one which is quite deliberately not overly ambitious. i think we do not need european corporate governance codes, it is quite enough if there is a reasonable coordination and harmonisation of activities in the member states. it is also quite obvious that we have a very different set of company law, and that harmonization has not yet reached a very high level. some very important directives, such as the fifth, have disappeared into the council's drawers and never reappeared. in this context, it is of course right that we do not want to deal with a european corporate governance code either, because this is not possible without a common harmonised company law. i therefore believe that overall - and this is also confirmed by the ghilardotti report - the commission has presented a very good paper and a good action plan. we have, however, had some differences of opinion between the political groups in the debate in the committee on legal affairs and internal market. i would like to make it clear that these were not differences of principle, but differences in the way things were phrased and the extent to which they were described in detail. the commission has already made a number of proposals, including the inclusion of trade union rights and social rights in the report, but in my group we felt that we should not go into detail on this because this is a paper on the action plan for company law and not a social report or a social document. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are also in favour of the report. we shall be voting in favour of the report as it has come from the legal affairs committee, with an amendment, as a group.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. the objective of creating a single payment area in the european union is supported by the european parliament, and fully supported by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. there are still very strong national barriers in the form of diffuse national regulation, national legislation and national supervision which make it difficult to create a single market for mass payments which would ultimately benefit the citizen. the first steps towards this were taken some time ago with the crossborder transfer charges. here too, the european level had to take the initiative. we are also supporting the objective of introducing a uniform direct debit system, which is not possible at present. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected. the question is, how do we achieve that goal? i am a strong supporter of the idea that we should also introduce a gradation in legislation according to the principle of subsidiarity, with self-regulation, i.e. the self-regulation of the banks, as the first priority. we have the european payments council, which can, should and must set the standards here, for example, to create the technical interfaces for crossborder activity. i would also prefer, from the point of view of subsidiarity, to take the next steps in directives and to adopt only what is really necessary in a uniform way in regulations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's document highlights a major problem in the area of consumer protection. there are ideas here which, in my view, go far beyond the goal and give me the impression - and i say this quite consciously, commissioner bolkestein - that i do not mean to say that there are parts of the commission which have said goodbye to the responsible citizen. the bank is to be liable for a real estate transaction in future. for example, someone buys something on the internet, the purchase is void, he wants his money back, and if he cannot contact the supplier, he should be able to contact the bank, which has nothing to do with the real transaction. we can certainly - and you are a supporter of this - regulate this via the market, by means of products which provide protection, but a fundamental liability of the banks in this area must be rejected, as must the proposal that the cardholder be liable for a maximum of eur 150 if the card is lost, regardless of how he has behaved. so he goes on holiday, discovers on board that he has lost his card, and after three weeks he reports, and then the liability is to be limited to 150 euros. i think it makes sense that we protect those who act responsibly a little bit from those who act irresponsibly. i am glad that the commission has taken up the idea of creating a single number in the european union, which can be called if the card is lost - a short number that is easy to understand and can then be called quickly by the citizens. i would also like to stress that the creation of the single payment area should not be accompanied by making national structures that work well and efficiently a bit uneconomic. we must not allow the national systems that are functioning to deteriorate accordingly. but if i may return to consumer protection, mr bolkestein, my appeal to you is to take a stand, particularly in the internal debate still to be held in the commission, for the adult citizen to be held in high regard, for responsibility to be left to him. the lisbon goals of becoming the most innovative, fastest growing region in the world are upheld time and again. everyone has the slogan "less bureaucracy" on their badge. mr bolkestein, the legal text we have now should be judged by the fact that it does not create more bureaucracy but makes life easier for banks and for citizens in the single european union.
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation in question, which is the subject of mr seppänen's report, is a very important element in european legislation designed to complete the work of creating a competitive and fully operational european natural gas market. it is a complementary and indispensable instrument to the second gas internal market directive, since it defines the minimum requirements for the key element of the approach to energy market liberalisation, i.e. third party access to networks. i am well aware that the proposal for a regulation on conditions of access to gas transmission networks has given rise to interesting discussions over the past few weeks. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to clarify some points which i think deserve further enlightenment. firstly, what is the aim of the proposed regulation? and secondly, what is its necessity and importance? the regulation certainly complements the internal market directive and fills a gap left by that directive. both the second gas directive and the proposed regulation are based on the principles of non-discrimination, transparency and competition. both legislative acts clearly recognise the fundamental importance of third party access to the network. however, whereas the directive only defines the objectives, the regulation sets out a number of minimum requirements to be met with regard to the key element of third party access to the network. it is clear that certain requirements will have to be met in order to meet the provisions and objectives of the directive, since the opening up of the market is not only quantitative but also qualitative. these requirements are also necessary for the market to be competitive and for the market to be exploited. we are talking about using the experience of the implementation of the liberalisation of gas markets which shows that, without these requirements, the conditions of access to the european market will not meet the needs of this opening of the gas market and the competitiveness and operability of the same. these points have been discussed for a year at the madrid forum and the participants have largely determined the requirements. these are minimum standards which have been recognised by all the parties involved in the madrid forum in order to create and guarantee equal conditions for access to this market. in summary, with this regulation in force, as proposed by the commission, we will be sure that the means have been established and that the systems are in place to make it operational. i would remind you that our common objective is to create the internal gas market in the european union, which will allow gas to flow freely and unhindered through the european union's networks, which means not only across borders but also within the different states of the union, and that is why we have deliberately proposed that all transport networks - and not just those used in crossborder exchanges - should be covered by the proposed regulation. i would remind you that the role of the gas sector in the future, when the time comes to define the general rules which will apply to the gas market in the future, never calls into question the need for close cooperation between the commission and the sector for the future development of the internal market. the committee procedure - which the commission has proposed for obvious reasons - has no influence in this respect. the aim is not to limit the role of the sector, let alone exclude it from the development of future measures; on the contrary, the commission is open to proposals which underline the role of the sector both immediately and also for the future. i would now like to turn to the content of mr mombaur's report on measures to protect the security of gas supply. i would remind you that the council unanimously adopted a political guideline last december. the council also amended the legal basis of the commission proposal, which became article 100 instead of article 95. today we are discussing the european parliament's report which also approves the change in the legal basis. as you know, the commission does not agree to the amendment of this legal basis and, at the council meeting on 15 december, we issued a statement reserving our position on the change of legal basis. and we will maintain this statement and our position once the council has finally adopted the text of the directive in question. let me explain briefly the reasons why we are taking this position. we are aware that the proposal for a directive contains elements relating to security of supply, but also to the functioning of the internal market. the commission considers that the most important elements are those relating to the internal market and that they should therefore form the legal basis for the directive. in addition to these considerations, the text adopted by the council contains a number of rules aimed at introducing a certain level of harmonisation in a competitive european internal market for natural gas. states must define a policy on security of gas supply, define the roles and responsibilities of market participants with regard to security of supply, and also introduce certain minimum standards which, although determined by each country, allow for a certain degree of harmonisation as they are aimed at certain specific gas criteria. on the contrary, provisions aimed exclusively at security of supply are designed primarily for events which we all hope will never happen, whether it be a serious political crisis or an insecure long-term supply of gas. in view of these considerations, the commission remains convinced that article 95 is the correct and appropriate legal basis for it and we therefore regret that the council expressed a different view at the time and that now, as we see, parliament is going to do the same. mr president, i would like to end by thanking both mr seppänen and mr mombaur for their work on these two reports and then, in the light of the amendments and speeches that have been made, i will say a little more about what is a key element: access to networks. for the commission, this does not mean in any way jeopardizing the profitability and future investment in a key element for the development of the gas market, namely the construction and maintenance of gas networks throughout our geography, and the proof is in the proposal for transeuropean energy networks, where several of the major projects we have already approved for the future relate to gas networks. in the first proposal now under discussion in the run-up to enlargement, the commission supports and backs a number of projects relating to large gas interconnections.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. firstly, the proposal for a regulation on access to gas networks. reliable rules for network access are important. we already noted this in the gas directive last year. my group supports the proposal for further consultation with the amendments of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy. i would like to suggest, commissioner, that you look at four points in the council debate in a more nuanced way. firstly, the incentive to invest. we can talk about markets for a long time. if we don't have investors, then we don't have a market. the commission has often pointed out the high risks of investments in the gas sector - exploration, pipeline construction. there's a leadership contest, even back in the days of monopoly. this is how the market has been created and it must be clear that tariffs alone may prevent investment on the basis of cost. secondly, consider whether there is a clearer emphasis on the transfrontier transport of gas. thirdly, the comitology. the problem is not the comitology itself, but whether article 9 is in the right proportion to articles 3 to 8, that is to say, whether the substance is really in articles 3 to 8. the council's discussions may be able to improve this. my fourth comment, madam commissioner: of course, everyone on the market who has a say in this matter is important, regulators, network operators, but above all investors, and it is quite clear - and you have always done it - that you speak to them before you make proposals to parliament and the council. now they would like to see all of them mentioned in the legislative work. i personally do not think so, because i am convinced that the commission knows how to do its job, but if the people i have mentioned can be pleased to have their name mentioned in a recital, then so be it. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it is true that we are heavily dependent on imports. it is therefore right to address this and to commit the member states to implementing a policy to this end. the council has now adopted a different text from that proposed by the commission at first reading and the council has followed parliament in this respect. we are therefore now talking about a different text than the one originally put forward by the commission, and in our view this text no longer contains elements which are regulatory for the internal market. the committee also welcomes the fact that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of taxation of the income of the european union citizens, which is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin with what mr chichester concluded, namely that we cannot go fast enough in opening up the energy markets. i think that is a position which we have had in this parliament for some time. i would remind you that last year, after more than two years of intensive work on both the electricity and gas markets, we adopted the relevant directives to accelerate the opening up of energy markets in europe. however, i must say that i was surprised, and a few others were also, by the speed with which a follow-up proposal for a regulation on gas networks was now being drawn up, given that the deadline for member states to implement it is not yet over it will be in a few weeks and also given that we have set a very ambitious timetable for the commission to present an evaluation report on the application and implementation of the directive this should be done as early as 2006. that was the backgrounds. i would like to mention three points which, i must admit, have made me somewhat sceptical. firstly, the compatibility of this regulation with the adopted directive. secondly, the reason given by the commission, which i did not quite find in the text, namely that the emphasis should be on crossborder trade. the third point which made me a little sceptical was that a very extensive comitology procedure was proposed. now, after a long discussion - the rapporteur has pointed out this - we have agreed that we want to continue to work on the commission's approach. we have therefore proposed a number of amendments in the three areas i have just mentioned. that is why we have voted in favour of this motion. but the work of my group is not yet finished. we are waiting to see what the council does and then we go to second reading, but we will continue to support these 42 amendments which were adopted in committee here in the house and we hope that we will also make some progress in the area of opening up energy markets.
i have to say, madam president, what i'd be interested in is how we, or our successors, are talking about this problem in 10 years, whether we've gotten smarter or not. but i can't do that today. one thing is certain: the security of supply is enhanced by more competition; we have always been aware of this. but without supply, competition cannot do this either, which means that i believe that security of supply, especially for natural gas, will depend very much on a european external energy policy, i.e. diversification and security of supply through access to gas. i am also in favour of a gradual approach, as are many others. i believe that, as with oil, the first thing to be done is to call on the companies. i think that in two years' time we may have a review, a rethinking of the present situation. i don't think we're under any time pressure.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. reducing the energy consumption of appliances benefits everyone. it benefits the environment it helps us achieve the kyoto targets faster and cheaper and it benefits the consumer by saving on electricity and energy bills. it is also an opportunity for industry to bring innovative products to the market, especially if we have common standards throughout europe. the epp group therefore strongly welcomes the european commission's proposal and we expressly thank commissioner de palacio for her commitment here. but we, together with the other groups, want to make some changes to the commission's proposal. we want more clarity on what the commission will actually do with this mandate in the coming years. we therefore want to have a list of products which will be subject to an implementation measure in the first few years, unless voluntary agreements are adopted which will achieve the same objective more quickly. we want fewer vague legal terms in the text, and above all - this is a priority for the epp group - we want very strict market surveillance. it is not possible, in these and other matters, that the honest man is the fool in the end, that the one who only applies the ce mark when he is really complying with the rules is punished because others are putting the ce mark on it without complying with anything. therefore, very, very drastic penalties must be imposed. we need better controls and the requirements must be such that they can actually be controlled. we must be ambitious, because only then will there be no incentive for individual member states to go beyond the minimum standards. that is why, when we vote tomorrow for the double legal base, we will be flexible on this issue if the objective is ambitious, and i am a little discouraged by the council's reaction. i am very disappointed that the irish presidency and the council as a whole are putting off this. this encourages national unilateralism. i think that's bad. we need common european standards, and i must say personally that in my ten years in the european parliament i have rarely seen the council behave so destructively or a presidency manage a matter so badly. i appeal to the council and above all to the irish presidency, which is unfortunately not represented here, but perhaps someone can convey the message that at least parliament's amendments should be taken into account when the common position is drawn up in june. if this is not done, if the council simply ignores these amendments, then we will have a national patchwork of regulations, we will miss the kyoto targets, consumers will continue to waste money on useless electricity, useless energy consumption. the irish presidency has failed at this point. the last chance is for the presidency to really follow parliament, and in that sense i would like to make a strong appeal to it.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i too would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and i hope that we can get by with a reading. i just want to focus on one thing, and that's the sinks. i disagree. i just returned from an official delegation trip to south america. there has been surprisingly a lot of work on this linking directive, at least in some ministries, and i have been told repeatedly how important it would be for them to include the wetlands, i.e. forestry. i can see that. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i should also like to mention that almost a year ago france concluded a treaty with colombia, which included forestry, and this has created a contradiction between parliament and the council of ministers which we will not be able to sustain for a long time.
the commission has already done so. before i come to the de roo report, i would like to say a word about emissions trading in general, and the moreira da silva report, which mrs oomen-ruijten has also mentioned. in the moreira da silva report we proposed that parliament should introduce a ceiling, a cap, in the national allocation plan and we wanted the same brackets to be included in each country in this national allocation plan. unfortunately, the council rejected this amendment at the time. that is one of the reasons why we are now faced with a situation where we have a patchwork of national allocation plans which are difficult to make compatible with each other. many member states have not notified any plans as of 31 march, and some have submitted very low-level plans. i would like to expressly support your commitment, commissioner, to encourage the member states and, if necessary, to compel them through proceedings before the european court of justice to implement the spirit and content of this directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the requirements of the treaty. that's why it's very important that you pay attention here. we have also written a letter to president prodi on this matter. it is not possible for industry in the member states which are relatively ambitious to suffer from the fact that some member states continue to believe that they cannot do anything at all, because something must be done at home too, given the importance of joint implementation and the cdm. that brings me to the de roo report. i believe that the de roo report is an important step forward in international climate policy. we are strengthening the kyoto process, and we have also shown certain limits here. unlike mr linkohr, i also think it was a good thing that we stuck to the position of not including senken. mr linkohr, you are almost always right, but i think you, as a physicist, miscalculated. emissions trading itself, we have zero emissions factor for biomass, which means if you burn biomass, you don't need any certificates at all. this is a very big advantage for biomass combustion. if we are now also paying for the planting of trees, then we have been lying to ourselves and not to the climate protection!
i have to say, madam president, i must confess that before i came to the european parliament i worked for ten years on nickel-cadmium batteries. we even built a factory, and i got a number of patents, but they've expired. i have no economic interest in this. i also admit that we did not think much about what would happen to things later. i think it is right to look at how to recycle these batteries. i would, however, advise that instead of banning something, alternatives should be introduced as quickly as possible, and these alternatives are in principle available. small fuel cells are going to be on the market this year or next year, and they're heavy metal free. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
the commission has already done so. we have, in fact, a greater consumption of batteries, and that creates problems. one, we want to design batteries that are environmentally friendly to handle, and two, we don't want to add to our waste problem. what that means, in effect, is that we need a strategy that ensures that as few batteries as possible end up in landfills, and secondly, we need to make sure that innovations are being made in battery production. i therefore support the commission's approach to include all batteries in the legislation and to ensure that producers are responsible for the production of batteries. i also agree with the many compromises we have found together, which aim to organise battery collection and recycling more effectively, so that our waste problem is indeed alleviated. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the lack of a single market. the important thing is that we send a signal that we want batteries that are environmentally friendly, that don't contain heavy metals, that are easy to recycle. we must send this signal clearly from parliament so that innovation in the battery industry is implemented. of course, this can also be done through various deposit schemes, which place more strain on dangerous battery systems than others. the consumer is also called upon to play a part in this.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i strongly support anders wijkman. if we really want to achieve sustainable production, we have to think in terms of life cycles, not individual products. that is why we need a scaffold for the construction site. if you look at this now, we actually have a construction site where the individual building blocks are spread out on the floor. we have emas, we have labels, and we have decided to label batteries again. then we have limits, then we have, in the automotive sector, particularly environmentally friendly eev cars. we have public procurement, but nothing interferes with each other. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need a framework for the site so that these building blocks can fit together and eventually make a reasonable building. only then, i believe, can we convince companies to really change production, and ultimately to push for environmentally friendly and sustainable production.
mr president, madam vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. as chairman of the standing committee on the safety of life at sea, i would like to thank the members of the committee and the rapporteur, mr sterckx, for the extremely substantive discussions and the excellent report. the committee has always maintained a good atmosphere and everyone has tried to tackle the problems objectively. thank you very much. i would also like to thank the staff of the secretariat, led by mr darmis, whose very professional administrative support made possible the rapid and at the same time thorough work of the committee, including the important trip to barcelona. the consultation of a large number of experts from a wide range of backgrounds, representatives of the commission, the european maritime safety agency, the irish presidency of the council, the imo secretary-general and, not least, the vice-president responsible, mrs de palacio, has, in my view, provided the committee with a broad basis for its deliberations and assessments. we have reviewed the shipwreck since the erika and prestige accidents and have examined in particular the european legislative measures adopted since then to improve safety at sea and their implementation in the member states. i would like to highlight four general conclusions from the 56 conclusions. i won't go into details. i think there are four conclusions that are important enough to be highlighted. the spanish authorities have successfully stopped the oil leakage from the prestige wreck and have provided timetables for the further pumping of oil from the wreck, which should exclude any further damage to nature and fisheries. we still have the problem of the waste that has been taken out of the sea in the last few months and in the last few years, which needs to be carefully recycled, but that's a special problem. secondly, we believe that the spanish courts should expedite the proceedings in respect of the prestige accident and amend the conditions imposed on the captain so that he can return home before the start of the proceedings. thirdly, the new rules adopted by the erika i and erika ii legislative packages are essentially designed to significantly improve safety at sea. fourthly, and this is the crucial point, in some member states the transposition of safety rules into national law and thus into practice is still insufficient. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. commissioner, you must keep at it, put pressure on the member states, this house is behind you!
the commission has already done so. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. it is sad that it took an accident as serious as that of the tanker prestige, among others, to finally improve maritime safety. but today i want to emphasize that we have succeeded in doing so by implementing and following the measures outlined in the report. this requires more of a maritime network and less of another bureaucratic skyscraper in the big city of the european union. the only way to achieve effective coastal protection is to increase maritime safety at multinational level. small states are a thing of the past. it is effective if synergies are identified within a common coastal protection framework and, through a common organisation, people and material are coordinated and used in the best possible way across regions, countries and seas. so for me, coastal protection, environmental protection or whatever you want to call it is also europe-wide regional and structural support. i understand that protection to mean preventive measures to protect nature and, within the framework of a joint coastguard, also an effective means of combating crime at sea. i am proud of this and i am sure that the package of measures we have decided will achieve this. this will benefit all the people of the european union, both the old and the new, in the short, medium and long term. a breathing space for the marine ecosystem and a greater willingness to invest in the sea lanes, the maritime highways of the future, will be the rewards.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. learning from a disaster means looking to the future. all the laws, all the regulations we pass here are ultimately worthless if they cannot be controlled or enforced. that is why we need a european coastguard very quickly in the medium term, not least in view of the new dimension of the threat of terrorism that has emerged. we should not wait until we have terrorist attacks on ships in european waters, but we should respond in time by having a coastguard. secondly, the baltic sea, sensitive sea areas. we have called for compulsory piloting in the baltic sea, but we know that this cannot be done without russia. that is why i am asking you, commissioner, to join the commission and the council in exerting political pressure on russia to ensure that russia finally follows international rules in the imo. third and last point: we know that 80% of all accidents at sea are due to human error. we have paid a lot of attention to technology. in future we should pay more attention to the human factor, i.e. we should focus more on training captains, officers and crews in accident management, fire protection and emergency response.
mr president, madam vice-president, and mr luigi cocilovo, my colleague. my group naturally supports your report, in which you support the commission's proposal to revise the road charging directive and propose substantial improvements. we are also glad that the committee has not proposed, contrary to the original considerations of the rapporteur, to introduce road tolls for cars by community law, because i believe - and the commission is absolutely right - that if a country wants to introduce road tolls for cars, it should be left to the country according to the principle of subsidiarity. in my country, germany, there is no need for this, because if you look at what the car driver already pays through mineral oil and motor vehicle taxes, he pays a large part of the cost of the journey, even more than the cost of the journey would require. so we are glad that the issue of car tolls has been settled by european law. secondly, we support the commissioner in her fight - quite frankly, so to speak - in the council for a clear-cut commitment, because it makes no sense to increase road tolls in order to maintain and improve the roads, if the higher funds then go into a general taxation budget and perhaps finance very sensible educational or cultural measures or something else. if we want to impose higher road tolls on lorries, then the revenue must also be returned to the transport sector. i would like to end by addressing two questions which i am sure we will have a long talk about in the second round. we were all agreed - and the rapporteur also pointed out this earlier - that we cannot increase road tolls indefinitely because raising them would lead to the death of the transport industry and the economy as a whole. we cannot simply imagine the lorry as the ducat ass of europe. there must be limits to how far we can raise road tolls, because otherwise we would be hurting jobs and economic growth. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we have generally thought that it is possible to charge lorries for the benefit of other modes of transport in the sense of cross-financing in the alps and the pyrenees, because these areas impose particularly expensive tunnelling systems, for example for railways. there is now a wording to allow cross-financing in other sensitive areas as well. i'm warning you not to open the door here. i can immediately explain that my home town of hamburg is a sensitive area with a high volume of traffic, so we could also set higher tolls in hamburg, cologne and elsewhere. we must therefore consider very carefully where we are going to use the instrument of cross-financing. the second is external costs. i will give you an example: if road tolls are increased because of congestion on some sections of the transeuropean network, then member states who fail to develop the right infrastructure would still be rewarded for it. they'd get more money if they didn't expand. this can't be right! so let us consider these questions carefully in the second reading.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i feel that there is still a great deal to discuss and we shall continue to do so together in the next parliamentary term. first of all, i would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur. he was indeed dealing with one of the most difficult and important reports of this term and he did an excellent job. a lot of important things have been said. i would like to emphasize again that it is good that we have now formulated a uniform methodology. we can thus in future do away with the mosaic of different toll systems with very different levels of charges. the fact that the full cost principle and the inclusion of infrastructure that is older than 15 years were possible is also very important to us. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the directive also aims, above all, to contribute to the control and steering of traffic by means of fair charges. we will do justice to this by differentiating tolls and by making cross-financing possible. in differentiating tolls, we are able for the first time to take account of external costs such as soil contamination, congestion and noise. this is a first step towards the complete internalisation of environmental costs, a success which should not be underestimated. my group also supports amendment no 55 which calls for further differentiation in these areas. the rapporteur has also presented a very good compromise on the increase in the toll for cross-financing. it is right that we have extended the definition of sensitive areas - and i do not agree with mr jarzembowski on this point - to include conurbations, because that is where the greatest noise and emissions problems arise. the best solution has certainly not yet been found, and it is a pity that we are only getting through to the first reading. i look forward to the further discussion in the next term and to the debate on the matter.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank the rapporteur once again for his constructive cooperation. he has really gone to great lengths to make a reasonable compromise. but the progress we have made so far is not enough to achieve a sustainable approach to the european euro. the aim of the eurovignette is to ensure fair competition between rail and road and to make polluters pay for their damage. we believe that the external costs of road traffic and goods transport must be fully borne by the state, and only then can fairness be achieved. fair competition means that the long-term environmental damage must also be considered at this point. the sensitive areas have been identified. it is clear that not only mountain areas but also valleys, which act as cauldrons and in which pollution is massively increased, as well as cities which are already heavily polluted, all sensitive areas would be affected by a possible increase in the impact of transport. fair competition also means that social dumping in the transport of goods must be tackled. and that, as we all know, is only helped by greater control. we therefore believe that more scope must be given to the inclusion of external costs in the polluter pays principle in transport, with the aim of greater road safety, sustainable diversion and, above all, sustainable environmental protection, because we do not want the next generation to suffer the damage we are causing now with a short-term concept of the euro coin.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on employment and social affairs. the commission is not the monitor is still showing something wrong. my name is elisabeth schroedter, and i am the rapporteur for the committee on employment and social affairs, as i have already said, in the context of the procedure for closer cooperation with the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism on this important dossier. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his constructive cooperation. it is all the more disappointing, as already mentioned, that the main improvements proposed by the social committee have been rejected by the committee of the regions, namely the tolerance of overstepping the limits. the commission has proposed that exceedances of up to 20% be tolerated. what does that mean, exactly? this means that the 56 hours of driving time allowed each week can be increased by 20% - that is to say, by 11 hours. i think it is physically irresponsible to the drivers and secondly it is a huge danger to everyone on our roads. i therefore believe that this dossier will only really improve if we vote here in the plenary on a reduction of this tolerance.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very surprised by the statement by my otherwise esteemed colleague, mr enrique baron crespo, that he is linking our group to the motion of censure against the commission. i would like to say that i am very critical of the fact that commission president romano prodi is obviously interfering more in italian internal politics than in his duties as president of the commission. (applause from the centre) but this is not the time for us to vote against it, because we have such excellent commissioners as vice-president loyola de palacio here. (applause from the centre) so our group has nothing whatsoever to do with the motion of censure, mr baron crespo. i really ask you to leave the campaign out of it now (laughter) and not to look for arguments that aren't there. so that's the first one. then my colleague, baron crespo, and i would like to express my appreciation once again, said that we should not discuss or vote on eurostat and a resolution. parliament decided that yesterday. mr baron crespo, we are all committed to the rule of law, which is the basis of our work, of the european union, and that is why i recommend that we proceed as we decided yesterday. (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. the commission is not i have two minutes to speak and i wanted to use them because the germans like to talk about tolling. (the president declared the common position approved as amended) ) i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are therefore still in the second reading of the interoperability of toll systems in the european union during this parliamentary term, and this is a subject which germans really like to deal with. we have been dealing with tolling in germany for many months. but this is just a little excursion. the council has therefore accepted our amendments from the first reading. we in the european parliament have done a good job, because we have substantially corrected the commission's draft. we believe that it is not for the legislator to make the use of a particular technology legally binding. it will therefore continue to be possible to use both satellite tracking and mobile technologies and microwave short-range communications for toll collection in the european union. the only important thing is that these technologies are interoperable, which means that a vehicle in europe can be equipped with only one on-board unit, i.e. one device per vehicle and one contract per customer. we shall now have that too, with the establishment of a european toll service. we called it contractual interoperability. that was the aim of the draft law now before us, and it is precisely this aim that the directive now fulfils. the market, free competition will now determine which tolling technology is the future. however, we would also like to make it clear that, given the wide range of additional uses, the use of satellite positioning and mobile telephony technology is in principle to be recommended, with the strictest observance of data protection. the innovative european galileo project will provide the information services for this purpose from 2008. the common position we have now is therefore an excellent result. i would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone, the council, the commission and especially the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups, for the excellent cooperation they have shown.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. in line with the council's 2002 overall plan to combat illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings in the european union, a new early warning system is envisaged, which will be developed into a secure web-based intranet site. the commission's proposal is a good one. you should say that. we have had a very good working relationship with the committee on the environment and we regard it as a decisive step towards improved coordination and communication between the member states. this is the only way to successfully combat illegal immigration across borders. the exchange of information can only be achieved if the member states can be sure that the information they provide is adequately protected. the circa system proposed by the commission is a good step in that direction. it meets the expected safety standard. in particular, it allows selective access to information within the system. i thank all the members from the various political groups for the broad support for this report and i am glad that we can still finish this in this parliamentary term.
the rapporteur. the commission is not the economic committee recommends the nomination of mr josé manuel gonzáles-páramo as candidate for the executive board of the european central bank. we have no doubt about his personal integrity and his professional competence. we would like to point out in this connection that it would be good if the european central bank and this european parliament were to reflect on the future role of central banking in the future. this is really central to the selection of candidates in the future. we also think that it is necessary to examine whether a confirmatory procedure, rather than a consultative procedure, would not be appropriate in the future.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have just made some arrangements to make the voting process easier for all of you. i would therefore like to propose, in consultation with my colleagues, that we vote separately in four blocks as from amendment no 10 by the committee. i have already given the secretariat indications of what blocks are possible there so that we can do this relatively quickly and i would ask you, mr president, to allow me to make a brief oral compromise proposal before the vote on article 3 (ii) (a) and before the vote on article 16.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not the question is whether the directive applies to contracts with a small amount of money or to contracts with a particularly large amount of credit. here is the amendment by the liberal group to set the minimum limit at 500 euros. i would like to combine this amendment with amendment no 175 by the socialist group with the aim of setting the ceiling at eur 100 000. that would be a reasonable joint solution. if this gets a large majority, we also have a good chance that this will be the basis for further discussions in the council.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not the commission has proposed a ban on negotiating credit agreements at the doorstep. the committee has requested that this ban be lifted altogether. we have agreed to this request. there is therefore no longer any room for a reduced ban as proposed in amendment no 206. in this respect it is correct that amendment no 206 is obsolete.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. there is a separate directive on this subject, and therefore there is no room for other rules to be included here after this vote. i'm sticking with it.
i shall abstain on the oral amendment.
council. mr president, i wish to thank mr wynn and his committee for their work. i welcome the opportunity today to participate in this debate on the future financial perspective, and i note the points made by mr wynn. the report and the work undertaken by parliament constitute an important contribution to the process of working towards the agreement on future financing for the period from 2006 onwards. the nature of the agreement on the next funding round will have a critical impact on how the union equips itself to tackle forthcoming challenges, including those most relevant to the quality of life and economic prospects of our citizens. each of the union's institutions has a responsibility to ensure that we achieve a balanced and fair outcome that supports our policy goals in a financially efficient and financially effective manner. as we are aware, there are no easy answers to the challenge that the negotiations on future financing will have to address. we must address the need to boost growth throughout the union so as to capitalise on the economic recovery that is now evident. we need to target resources effectively so that we build a growth-enhancing infrastructure throughout the union that contributes to the improvement of transport links, with investment in communications and new technologies. similarly, the provision of support for human capital – in particular in terms of education and training – has the potential to complement our investment in infrastructure. upgrading the skills of europe's workforce will contribute significantly to improved productivity. equally, support for innovation will provide added value in the demanding global marketplace, thus enhancing the competitiveness of the union and its output. the policy of solidarity is critical to the success of our union. the european union must consider how best to support those regions of the new member states that will lag behind the union's average in terms of development and access to growth opportunities, including access to employment opportunities. equally, certain regions of existing member states are still engaged in the convergence process, and the union will need to consider what continued assistance is appropriate to support our shared objective of enabling all regions to converge on the eu average level of prosperity. similarly, our debate on future financing will have to address the differing needs of urban and rural populations and regions and consider how best to create a balanced outcome that will promote greater prosperity for a wider range of europe's citizens. our debate on future financing must also consider how we can enhance the priority which we attach to promoting the principle of sustainability in respect of future growth and development. equally, we all recognise the importance of providing appropriate resources for increased union actions in the areas of freedom, security and justice and in support of the union's external relations role. in short, the challenges facing us as we look at the future financial perspective are very significant indeed. as parliament is aware, we are still at the very early phase of our deliberations on the future financial perspective. the irish presidency's approach is to build a solid foundation for the detailed work that will need to be undertaken under succeeding presidencies to achieve agreement on the level and on the focus of future financing. its related objective is to provide member states with the opportunity to consider the commission communication as a whole and to outline their initial response. this process is intended to enable us to identify areas of agreement and also areas of potential divergence. parliament will have seen the european council conclusions welcoming the work of the commission on this issue and endorsing the presidency's approach to handling it. in line with these conclusions and analytical exercises currently under way in the council to examine each of the areas addressed in the commission communication, this work will form the basis for the report which will be prepared for the june european council, outlining the outcome of the deliberations thus far. the wynn report is therefore an important contribution to work on an issue in which each of the union's institutions will be involved. i welcome the constructive manner in which the european parliament, as usual, has approached the issue of future financing. while there may be differing viewpoints on specific aspects of the issue, i am pleased to see that there are many areas of shared analysis and a common recognition of the importance of focusing on issues such as sustainable development, growth, freedom, security and justice, and the union's external role. we have much work to do, as i have already said. that will determine how the union acquits itself to meet the challenges ahead. obviously, there will be points on which we will differ as the negotiations proceed – that is the very nature of politics and political dialogue. however, i am confident that our shared commitment to achieving a fair and balanced outcome to negotiations will help us to work towards a final package that will promote effective use of resources in support of greater prosperity for all the union's citizens in the years ahead.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. we budgetary politicians can look back on five years of successful cooperation. the first budget for which we are jointly responsible, the 2000 budget, was also the first budget under the present financial planning system. after five years of shared experience with the financial perspective instrument, it is good that we now have the opportunity to debate this experience with a view to the next planning period. experience has shown that the financial planning instrument has proved effective in ensuring the orderly development of expenditure and its financing. in particular, the instrument of the interinstitutional agreement with its consultation and cooperation mechanisms has also proved its worth in ensuring an efficient consultation process and a timely conclusion. at the same time, it has been the experience that a greater degree of flexibility is desirable, and it has been the experience that the ceiling for external policy has simply been too low and that the ceiling on administrative expenditure can contribute to not unproblematic developments. the positive effects of the financial perspective are due to its role as an instrument of mutual trust between the institutions and of common compromise. i agree with the words of chairman terry wynn. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission agrees with the committee on budgets in principle. but the commission has nevertheless proposed a transitional period of seven years for a variety of reasons which i shall not repeat here. perhaps it is possible to reach compromises such as not already fixing the amounts for each of the seven years in the support programmes for which the commission is now drawing up the legal basis. if we want to achieve that all the legal bases can be adopted in 2006, then it would simply be too late if the legal bases were to be drawn up by the new commission. but of course the new commission will be able to put its priorities into the consultation process. the financial perspective, ladies and gentlemen, sets the financial framework for the policies of the coming years. it is a very important political project, and therefore the beginning of the consultation must be an understanding of the tasks that the union wants to carry out together in the future. that is also the way in which the irish presidency of the council has taken up this dossier, and i would like to take this opportunity to express my very specific thanks for the way in which you are currently handling the dossier and the commission's proposal. the common objectives are ambitious: sustainable growth, enhanced competitiveness through the strengthening of science, research and education, the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice for our citizens, the assumption of greater shared responsibility in the world and the successful integration of the new member states. the new framework will apply to an eu of 27 member states. the commission proposes to do all this with funds below the current ceiling on own resources. we are not proposing an increase in the ceiling, although the current ceiling has been constant since 1999. we are even proposing to leave a much larger margin under this ceiling of 1.24% of gross national income than was proposed by the previous commission for the current planning period. if we compare the current financial planning with the commission's proposal for the 2007-2013 period in figures, we find that we propose a ceiling of 1.14% of gross national income on average for the next financial planning period, and the current ceiling is 1.12% if the edf and the solidarity fund are included. if we were to compare the figures, as is the case now, by excluding the european development fund and the solidarity fund and converting the proposal to 25 member states, we would even find that the commission's proposal for the coming years, in relative terms, expressed as a share of gross national income, is slightly below the value for the current financial planning period. how have we managed to stay within this ceiling despite these ambitious targets to be pursued? it has only succeeded, of course, because the commission has provided for transfers - real allocations - between old and new tasks. for example, the share of agricultural spending will decrease and the share of spending to promote sustainable growth will increase. the commission is proposing to shift the responsibility between the old and new member states. if we look at the commission's proposals for the future planning period only for the old member states, the commission's proposal is well below the 1.0% of gross national income that some member states are calling for. but if we were to set a ceiling of 1.0% for the enlarged union of 27 member states, then entire policy areas would have to be abandoned, and the list of objectives as decided by the council would no longer be possible to achieve. ladies and gentlemen, we have consolidated the budget considerably in recent years, much more than in the member states. the budgets of recent years, the budgets for which we have a shared responsibility, can be regarded as the lowest in the history of the eu's financial perspective. the expenditure flowing to the present member states has been reduced to allow financial room for new member states to be admitted under the existing ceiling. we are well prepared for enlargement in the budgetary field. we are also well prepared for enlargement in the budgetary procedures. we have a modern, new budgetary system and we have a new, much clearer, much more political structure of the budget. we have a good record in recent years, thanks to the very good cooperation between the institutions. and mr terry wynn, you have been a great chairman of the committee on budgets, you have led the committee very, very successfully. but you were also fortunate to have very good members on the committee on budgets who were and are professional, competent and - as is necessary for budgetary politicians - extremely diligent. the same applies to the committee's secretariat. we have achieved a great deal thanks to excellent cooperation. it was just very good. thank you very much for that. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on agriculture and rural development. the commission is not commissioner, you said that mediumterm financial planning also defines policies for the next few years. i'm all right. in the agricultural sector, if we do not break all the chains, we shall have the right to vote, and we have a financial plan which goes far into this area. we want to be involved in this as the european parliament and we also want to reject the interpretation in the constitution that we prefer to leave the council with the powers in monetary matters and we will play an active role in this. you also said that spending on agriculture is going down, spending on sustainable economy is going up. all right, then. but if you look at the second pillar, which is rural development, it does not increase, considering that we are soon to be 25 and 27 member states respectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to make use of them. the third point is that we want to be more involved in the research area. agriculture is involved in only five programmes under the framework programme. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the community. let me come back to the discussion that took place on gni and the contributions that were made. i do not think this letter with the proposal to limit it to 1% makes much sense. the commission's proposal is an offer, i would say, although i personally would like to take a more firm line here: we must of course make sure that the gap between authorization and payment is closed more closely by means of improved policy, and this is of course also the subject of the question to parliament. let me conclude with a final thought. they have created a reserve for a growth adjustment fund, but there is no specific reserve for dealing with crises in policy areas such as foreign affairs or the environment, and so i think that there should be some improvement here.
adopted by the commission on 15 december. the commission has already done so. there is no doubt that we face major challenges in shaping the future of the eu, and setting the appropriate priorities is not easy. the first priority must be to pursue genuine community policies. the fisheries sector is undoubtedly one of them and will continue to require, or more than ever, sound financing. let me briefly mention the main points which i, as the author of the opinion for the committee on fisheries, identified and which were also specifically and specifically underlined by the future commissioner, mrs sandra kalniete from latvia, at her hearing. firstly, it is essential that the cfp be adequately equipped in the next financial perspective. secondly, the areas dependent on fisheries, which are in most cases structurally weak, need community solidarity and support. we also need: thirdly, more socioeconomic measures; fourthly, greater diversification; and fifthly, the development of new activities. i am convinced that there is a future for european fisheries, but only if the necessary financial resources are available.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the report is a very balanced report, which is a good preliminary work for the future european parliament, without wanting or being able to prejudice it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore necessary to clarify once again that, while the union must of course provide itself with the means necessary to achieve its objectives and implement its policies, as described in article 6 of the treaty of nice, equity in contributions and expenditure and transparency in budgetary operations are also part of this. it is certainly true that the commission is focusing on growth targets, employment and sustainability in the new headings, but i would say that we would be all the more credible if this were to be reflected much more strongly, not only in the budgetary field, but also in the implementation of the acquis communautaire, and if we were to focus more on european legislation and its consolidation in this respect too. i would also like to say at this point that it is too early to talk about numbers today - whether it is 1,0, 1,24 or anything in between - because we must first of all talk about these things calmly on the basis of the constitutional debate. in this respect the letter of the six was not helpful or in any way purposeful in terms of timing or content. i also insist that we have a parallel between the electoral period and the term of office on the one hand and the financial perspective on the other, and i would like to say one last thing, mr president. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i'm saying what all my colleagues have said. it is quite clear that we are only at the beginning of the debate on the future financing of the european union, but we may also be at the beginning of some rather hard debates. it is therefore still far too early to talk about figures, ceilings and minimum allocations, as mr reimer böge has just said, but what do we think of the commission's approach in principle? first of all, what we found positive. the commission is proposing that we should put different headings to our budget than we are used to. it also proposes a slightly different approach to the composition of the various policy areas. the commission has already proposed a new category for sustainable growth and a new category for the conservation and management of natural resources. the commission has thus very carefully incorporated the priorities discussed repeatedly by parliament. we want to make our economy the most competitive in the world, and we want to leave our children and grandchildren a world worth living in. we are going to spend about four-fifths of our budget on this. wonderful, i can only say! but there is also a german proverb that says, "where there is light, there is shadow". the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i am not aware of their ideas and proposals as to how the funds we want to spend on our policies should be allocated to the european budget. i would have liked the commission to have also set out its ideas on the reform of own resources at the same time as the financial perspective. this would have put an end to some of the rather unfortunate discussions about member state contributions, but perhaps the commission can do something about it. i wish.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the green group also shares the rapporteur's thanks for the fact that he has made a real effort to achieve balance in the preparation of his report, especially in this short period. the report broadly supports the commission's proposal. but it does not go beyond that. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commissioner has clearly emphasized - and i have noted this very well - that gothenburg is on an equal footing with lisbon. i think this is very important and i would be glad if the commission could succeed in making this a binding part of the structural funds regulation. just one example: the common climate policy must become part of the future cohesion policy, including the selection of projects. the increase in unemployment and the exodus from disadvantaged regions must be stopped. here too, we must make a clear distinction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the third cohesion report has set the course in the right direction - towards a reformed european cohesion policy with a new architecture and targeted interventions. the fact that 78% of the financial resources were allocated to the least-developed regions to reduce disparities and improve competitiveness indicates that the direction is the right one, away from the 'pot' principle and towards the targeted use of subsidies. equally, the new convergence objective provides for the equal treatment of the regions affected by the statistical effect. we welcome this proposal in particular, provided that it also guarantees adequate funding, as set out in the commission's communication for the period after 2006. in the interests of fair treatment of the areas affected by the statistical effect compared with the traditional objective 1 regions, there must be no further reduction in the allocation of funds and the intensity of support. i would therefore like to remind you of the decision taken by parliament on the basis of the mastorakis report in september last year to take account not only of the intensity of the aid granted to the areas affected by the statistical effect but also to pay the same attention to the aid scheme. parliament had voted by a large majority in favour of the aid under article 87 (3) (a) of the ec treaty and this should be taken into account. we therefore expect the directorate-general for competition to submit its proposal for guidelines for regional aid before the draft regulations for the structural funds are submitted, taking account of this parliament's vote, because in this context we must be wary of unilateral aid and promotion measures only in the candidate countries, which would ultimately subsidize tax dumping in these countries, which would only lead to the relocation of jobs from the west to the east from the eu countries that have been candidates. this promotion of mere job transfer with european funds and a unilateral aid scheme would not be acceptable.
the commission has already done so. i am convinced that people have good reason to look forward to enlargement. but they also have a number of fears, and we must take these fears seriously and, if necessary, defuse them. regional policy is an important instrument for alleviating these fears. it can and must help to prevent or eliminate inequalities, injustices and distortions within the eu. but it must not encourage or create new forms of injustice. for this reason, we are - as mr berend has just said - campaigning for the exclusion of purely business relocations from european regional policy. people will not understand and support europe if we reward a company for taking jobs away from one region and then only creating the same number of jobs elsewhere because we subsidize that move. another thing to keep in mind is that eu funds must not be used to drastically reduce tax rates in the recipient countries. solidarity is a noble asset, but it is not a one-way street, and so some will quickly realise that tax dumping can lead to cutting off the branch you are sitting on.
adopted by the commission on 15 december. the commission has already done so. two hours ago, as the spokeswoman for the committee on fisheries, i said that i was sure that there was a future for european fisheries. i would like to continue and stress that the prerequisite is, however, a consistent continuation of the reform efforts and the implementation of the decisions. i therefore urge that at least the main areas of the cfp's operations be given due consideration in the 2005 budget. we need, firstly, better staffing of the services to enable the objectives of the reform of the cfp to be achieved, secondly, sound financial resources for the regional advisory bodies to be set up, and thirdly, sound financial resources for the establishment of the european fisheries control authority. fourthly, we need sufficient funds for the new fisheries agreements, but also for the eu's participation in international fisheries organisations, and fifthly, sufficient funds to compensate the coastal regions affected by the recovery plans and emergency measures. we have taken a sensible approach to the reform of the cfp. the 2005 budget must now focus on making the financial base sustainable and sustainable so that the fishing industry can finally return to profitability.
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and equal opportunities. the commission is not commissioner, gender budgeting cannot be just a play on words. i urge you, i beg you, to apply gender justice fully in the budgetary procedure. gender mainstreaming must be brought to life and it must also be convertible into euros. in the european community more women are victims of domestic violence than of terrorism. that is why we are calling for 2006 to be declared the european year against violence. we call for beijing+10 to be brought to life, for the outcomes of the world conference on women to be implemented, for example, by a european conference to develop further strategies. and we are calling for a european gender institute to produce reliable data for our policy decisions. we expect the commission to mainstream gender in all policy areas and the 2005 budget, the first in the large european union, should provide us with the important features for this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i should like to thank our rapporteur very sincerely for having produced an excellent report, which, in difficult circumstances - we are all in the midst of an election campaign and a primary election campaign - really makes the european parliament stand out. let me just say a few words about the report as a whole. i should like to express my surprise at the fact that the commission has agreed with the council - at least that is what the documents show - to reduce this special programme by eur 100 million in the area of transeuropean networks for the elimination of bottlenecks. i think that is unacceptable, both from the point of view of the procedure and from the point of view of the policy which is being pursued. the commission has no right to interfere in the budgetary procedure, but it is up to others to decide, and the commission has the will of the budgetary authority, and we as parliament must take that into account. secondly, as regards the content: we find, particularly in my home region, that we are not prepared for enlargement to the east in terms of transport infrastructure and that there is an urgent need for funds, and it is unacceptable that an important project which was once proposed by the commission under pressure from parliament is now being withdrawn. i want to make this very clear. i would also like to point out that the commission should also reconsider its political approach to preparatory measures in connection with visa policy, the schengen information system and refugee policy. the commission's proposal is to be incorporated in the treaty of rome, and the council's proposal is to be incorporated in the treaty of rome. the commission's proposals are not acceptable and are in part contradictory. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i am here to tell you that we will look very closely at whether 700 jobs are really necessary.
the commission has already done so. the 2005 budget, which we are discussing, is only being discussed by us. a new parliament will have to do the final work. in this respect it is a special budget. it is also special because it is very much influenced by certain conditions. the first is that we want to encourage enlargement and we must create the conditions for it. and everything to do with enlargement is also linked to the future and to the financial resources available. we will also discuss it in the context of the debate on the financial perspective, because this 2005 budget will be the penultimate before the new financial perspective. the figures we are putting forward will, of course, set the course for the future and will also form the basis for the debate whether we like it or not. at the same time, we europeans are not an island. we must face up to world politics, whether it is in foreign policy where we have to work preventively to avoid conflict or - you have already mentioned this - whether it is in the field of internal security where we have to fight organised crime together. and finally, we must face up to global competition and ensure that our businesses, our economy, can survive. we will, as in previous years, make sure that this budget which we have before us and which we are discussing will be more economical, even under the conditions i have just described. but it must also be a sufficient one. we will not allow those who say that we want to be very careful and thrifty to be branded as greedy, but we will also not allow those who point out that money is needed in certain areas to be branded as wasteful. we shall continue to follow the line of the past in drawing up this budget, even under the conditions i have described, which do not make it any easier to adopt, namely, adopting a budget which is sparing but sufficient so that people know that they can rely on the european parliament in budgetary matters.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the parliament's draft budget for 2005 was discussed in depth in the committee on budgets and the groups overwhelmingly agreed to the report before you. i would like to thank all the parties for this good cooperation. i shall therefore now deal with only a few aspects. the budget for 2005 is based on the following key figures: enlargement-related expenditure with nine new languages for a full 12 months, and, of course, a tenth language added if the cyprus referendum is successful this week, 44 working weeks, including three constituency weeks, 12 ordinary and six additional sessions, salary adjustments of 2.7% and flat-rate reductions of 7% of posts. the specific situation of the preparation of the 2005 budget this year, with the enlargements due on 1 may and the european elections in june, leaves a number of open questions and uncertainties which can only be resolved shortly before the first reading in september this year. political priorities: the priority is to meet the needs of enlargement despite the financial constraints faced by heading 5 in the 2005 financial year. i see the main objective for 2005 as achieving economic and budgetary management and the best cost-benefit ratio for the european taxpayer. the current austerity and uncertainty factors should therefore be based on actual needs. the general framework: the preliminary draft budget estimate amounts to 20% of heading 5. that is 1,272 million euros. of this eur 1 272 million, eur 1 007.6 million is earmarked for normal operational expenditure and eur 173.4 million for enlargement-related needs. in view of the good experience gained in recent years with the early repayment and accelerated repayment of buildings, which have enabled considerable savings, it is appropriate to make an advance payment on buildings d4 and d5 in 2005 using part of the available funds. expenditure for members and political groups: the statute of members has not been entered in the operational budget lines or in the reserve. however, chapter 102 'reserve for the statute of members' was retained with a p.m. note. the adoption of a statute for assistants should continue to be supported by us. in addition, the secretariat allowance should be reviewed and a code of conduct on the use of the secretariat allowance should be established. ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment on one of the four amendments tabled. unfortunately, my colleague, richard balfe, whom i greatly respect, is not here. i therefore ask the epp group to urge him once again to withdraw his motion. because there are still some financial issues to be resolved. we can reach a consensus on the matter itself. but it is not appropriate to take a decision with an expert opinion which does not cover all the means. that is why i am asking you to persuade him to withdraw this motion tomorrow.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his very detailed analysis of the 2005 budget, and i should like to thank him specifically for his very early attempt to reach a consensus across the political groups. it is very important that we all work together to ensure that the european parliament is able to cope fully with the challenges of enlargement in terms of its administration - we are the institution most affected by this, because from 1 may all languages will have to be available, we have very different ways of working than the commission, the council, the court of justice or the court of auditors - but also to ensure that the european parliament is strengthened in the long term by its acceptance. the rapporteur has made a number of good suggestions - he has just outlined the points - and i should like to thank him for that. mr president, i would like to say that i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative in this matter, and that it has been able to do so. that is permitted by the rules of procedure and i ask you to respect that. i would like to point out that i was one of those who fought most vehemently against mr balfe's proposals. i 'll make this very clear . it cannot be the task of the european parliament to solve problems for a few privileged members of parliament on the backs of the european taxpayer when, to put it very carefully, health care in certain member states is not optimal and there are legal constraints. i say this quite clearly, and i said this to mr balfe personally, because there are constant emails being sent out about why we must agree to this motion. it is a matter of colleagues from three member states. they should simply help to ensure that the health system in their home country functions properly, and then they would not need european over-supply. i should like to make that very clear. i hope, mr kuckelkorn, that after the european elections - i assume that the voters will be gracious and that your party will draw the line at 30 - and that you will be with me, while i am in a place where i can be somewhat safer - we will be able to adopt this budget together, because the point is that we, as the representatives of the citizens of this europe, are also taking this task very seriously and are making a contribution to ensuring that this europe does not develop away from the people. that is the honourable task of this parliament. that is what we stand for, and that is what we want to stand for after 13 june.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the commission's statement on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2002-05 (com (2002) 0245 final) - the report of the committee on budgetary control on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2002-05 (com (2002) 0245 final) - the report of the committee on budgetary control on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2002-05 (com (2002) 0245 final) - the report of the committee on budgetary control on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2002-05 (com (2002) 0245 final) - the report of the committee on budgetary control on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2002-05 (com (2002) 0245 final) - the report of the committee on budgetary control on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2002-05 (com (2002) 0245 final) - the report of the committee on budgetary control on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2002-05 (com (2002) 0245 final) - the report of the committee on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2002-05-05 (com (2002) 0245-05 final) - the report of the committee on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2002-05-05-05-05 (com (2002) 0245 final) - the report of the report of the committee on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2002-05-05-05-05-05-05-05 (com (2002) 2002-05 final) - the report of the committee on the general budgetary year 2002-05-05-05-0
- ladies and gentlemen, i now have the following item on the agenda: from 6 p.m. onwards the commission's statement on croatia will be on the agenda. i suggest that we take the two colleagues on the list, that we overstep the mark a little, in the hope and with the request to the colleagues that they will be brief so that we can proceed with croatia according to the agenda. these days, with all the schedules so tight, we have to improvise a lot. i would ask the three commissioners present to accept that we may overstep the mark and take the two speakers on the list. then we'll cut to croatia.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the council has, as mr sjöstedt has already pointed out, largely avoided the control and cooperation of parliament, unlike the other institutions. we can't accept this. it cannot be justified by historical reasons or by gentlemen's agreements. that is why in my report we asked for a reply to the questions still outstanding in our questionnaire by 1 july 2004. in the court of justice and the court of auditors, the salary increases shall be multiplied by the weightings which the members of the court of justice and the court of auditors shall assign to their salaries. while the commission - wisely in this case - decided to suspend the allowances for its members at least from 1 january 2003 after the unlawful practice was discovered, the european court of justice, in an administrative decision, retroactively re-approved these allowances. that is not a legal basis and therefore this payment is still illegal. such a gross violation of fundamental principles of the rule of law is particularly deplorable when it is committed by the supreme guardian of european law, namely the european court of justice. he should be an example, especially in his own affairs. the same applies to the system under which members of the court of justice and the court of auditors use their official cars to an exorbitant extent for their private purposes. but since the court of justice and, unfortunately, the court of auditors, floating in its wake, have shown themselves to be insensible in both cases, we call for the cessation of transfers of funds to the court of justice and the court of auditors until these practices are brought to an end. it is only under such conditions that i can really sustain my recommendation for the discharge of both institutions. i do not want to hide the fact that, as has already been said, there have been problems with the accounts and staffing of the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions. i think that both institutions have shown in the committee that they are on the right track, that they are still, in fact, partially overwhelmed by old burdens. but i think you can still get a discharge. i would like to make a positive comment on the mulder report on the agencies. we have 12 agencies now. it is a lot indeed and we all know that it will increase according to political wishes. i think, however, that if we manage to avoid duplication of work and also to give priority to technical work, efficiency in these agencies will indeed be better guaranteed than in the commission, the mammoth authority. the heads of the 11 agencies have shown a high level of professional competence and responsibility for their establishment. i want to expressly acknowledge that. in this respect they differ in a pleasant way from the members of the commission, of whom i cannot say that. after the eurostat scandal, the dismissal of the chief accountant and the revelation of a totally inadequate accounting system by which this commission manages the budget of some 100 billion euros - one might even say mismanaged - i will not agree to the commission's discharge. and what commissioner fischler has just said to eurostat is nothing new either, it was actually only disappointing. i would like to ask the commissioner responsible why the commissioner for agriculture has given this opinion to the commission. have you now realised that eurostat is also an agricultural problem, or is there another reason? i'm sure you can shed some light on that. the fight against fraud must of course remain a priority. the bayona report makes a number of points in this connection. i think the commission should be very careful when it is revising the olaf regulation. we have therefore made some clarifications in paragraph 90 of the report by mr bayona, in order to ensure that olaf can continue to operate independently, that it can focus on internal investigations and that the rights of those concerned are protected.
- this meeting is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- before we go on to discuss the statements by the two commissioners on croatia, as the agenda provides, i should like to read a motion for a resolution by the president, mr cox. he pointed out on monday that the inclusion of additional items on wednesday's agenda could affect the time available for question time. now parliament has added further items to the agenda, namely statements on the situation in the middle east and a debate on the vote of no confidence. in these circumstances and after speaking to the council, i propose, in agreement with the groups, that we cancel question time to the council tomorrow. in other words, the agenda now continues with the debate on croatia. question time to the commission will then take place at 6.30 p.m. (parliament decided to cancel question time on wednesday with questions to the council)
- it is a great pleasure to welcome a diplomatic delegation from croatia, who have taken their seats in the official box. the delegation is headed by the minister for foreign affairs of croatia. (applause from the centre)
- the next item is the communication from the commission on croatia's application for membership.
commission. mr president, i am delighted to be here today with my friend and colleague commissioner verheugen to present the commission's avis on the possibility of opening accession negotiations with croatia. the commission is also publishing today its first european partnership with croatia, which sets out priorities for both the short term and the medium term. in politics we very often overuse the word 'historic', but this is indeed a historic day for croatia and this is an occasion which i know gives both commissioner verheugen and myself considerable personal pleasure. croatia is the first of the western balkan countries to get to this stage, although i know that – perfectly understandably – croatia would prefer a rather different description. geography, as i have often said in the past in zagreb, is not destiny. it is not a surprise that croatia has reached this stage well ahead of any of its neighbours. had it not been for the legacy of war, it might well have got to this stage on the road to membership a great deal earlier. croatia applied for membership in february 2003 and the council asked us to prepare our opinion in april of that year, so it has taken us a year of hard work. i do not apologise, however, for the time that we have needed. assessing a country's readiness for candidate status is one of the most important institutional duties that the commission undertakes. i do not want to keep honourable members in suspense, so let me tell you straight away that the college has decided today to recommend to the council that accession negotiations be started with croatia in due course. (applause)i think the applause is deserved, and if the occasion was less salubrious we could have managed a standing, rather than a crouching ovation! commission verheugen and i would like to set out a little of the thinking behind the commission's decision, and i am sure you will agree that it is important for us to say rather more clearly why we have arrived at this extremely welcome conclusion. from the very beginning, it became clear that the most important areas for consideration were the political criteria set out in copenhagen in 1993. there are a number of considerations which we had to bear in mind and i will touch on the main ones. the croatian judiciary is – unhappily – poorly trained and organised and a huge backlog of cases is waiting to be considered. however, the independence of the judiciary is not in question. croatia has a lot of work to do in improving the quality of judicial decision-making but it has – and we are convinced of this – a strategy for doing so and it now needs to implement that strategy. second, croatia's relations with its neighbours have not been entirely smooth recently. there have been difficult border disputes with slovenia, as well as disputes over fishing rights in the adriatic which were not helped by unilateral action by croatia last year. however, since the election last december, the croatian government has shown a willingness to resolve these disputes in a sensible way based on mutual understanding. third, there is the question of minority rights. this is extremely important to the parliament; it is extremely important to all of us as europeans. it is important that croatia implements properly its legislation on minority rights. the osce has also reported to us that more needs to be done to ensure that serbian refugees currently living in serbia, montenegro and bosnia are able to return to their homes. however, the present government has concluded an agreement with the croatian serb leader, mr pupovac, designed to achieve that effect. there is still much to be done, however, but progress is being made: we welcome that and we are assured that it will continue. perhaps the most difficult issue, as it is throughout the region, has been the question of cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia – icty. our position is straightforward and it is well known: in line with regular conclusions of the european council, we require that all the countries of the western balkans cooperate fully with the tribunal as a non-negotiable condition for progress down the stabilisation and association process. we rely for our assessment on the opinion of the tribunal itself. until recently, croatia's record was far from perfect – though i recognise that efforts were being made. however, in recent months, cooperation has been greatly improved. it is particularly worthy of note that two groups of indictments involving eight people, both croats and bosnian croats, were dealt with speedily and without fuss by the croatian government. all eight were transferred to the hague within a week or so of their indictments. there remains the question of former general ante gotovina. he has been indicted for very serious crimes and remains at large. commissioner verheugen and i consulted the chief prosecutor of the tribunal and she gave both of us very clear advice. she concluded that croatia was fully complying with the tribunal, and saw no likelihood of that situation changing. as far as the gotovina case was concerned, she indicated that the croatian government was doing all it could to help locate him and turn him over to the hague. we asked the referee, the referee gave us her decision and i do not believe that it is for us to try to second-guess her. so, both our criteria have been met in full and the way is now clear for a positive assessment on this crucial issue. i must just add one thing: as we say in the avis, it is extremely important that croatia continues to cooperate fully with the tribunal and that, in particular, the croatians demonstrate very clearly that they are doing everything they can to locate and apprehend the remaining indictee. it is a matter for the irish presidency to choose the date for the council's consideration of our avis; i know that member states will be watching this question very closely between now and then. i repeat that this moment gives me considerable pleasure. i would like to congratulate all those with whom we have worked over the past few years, and who have laid the foundations for this decision. i would like to congratulate the present government on what it has done, and i hope this moment will be one for celebration in croatia. with that i will hand you over to my colleague commissioner verheugen, who will indicate to the parliament some of the other parts of the avis and give you some indication of the next steps. (applause)
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i too would like to express my great joy and satisfaction that once again the great idea of european unity has proved its attraction and that once again the prospect of european integration, of membership of the eu, has proved to be the strongest engine for political and economic reform in a country that until recently was torn apart by war and civil war and violence. my friend and colleague chris patten has already talked about the political criteria. i would like to add a few words about the other criteria for membership, which are also important. the first is the question of croatia's economic capacity and whether it meets our market economy requirements and whether it will be able to withstand the competitive pressures of the internal market. the results of our examinations were very clear and very encouraging. croatia is already in a much better position than most of the countries which will join on 1 may were when the negotiations began. croatia can already be considered as a functioning market economy today and, provided that the policy of economic reforms is continued, croatia also offers sufficient guarantees that the country will be able to withstand competitive pressure in the internal market in the medium term. the croatian economy is already highly integrated into the european union economy and its economic performance is well above that of bulgaria and romania, for example, which are due to join in 2007. so from the economic point of view we see no problems and no risks in the opening of accession negotiations with croatia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the adoption of community law is the subject of negotiations and not a prerequisite for negotiations. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the country will need our help in this and the commission is of course prepared to give croatia the same level of support and advice that the countries that joined on 1 may have received in recent years, so our assessment is positive here too. as regards the further procedure, as mr patten has already said, it is for the council to decide whether and when to open accession negotiations. the negotiations must be preceded by a comprehensive screening, before they can begin in a formal sense, that is, a comprehensive examination of the entire acquis communautaire and the state of its adoption and implementation in croatia, so that we know what to negotiate about. so this is a normal procedure and will take some time and then the normal negotiating chapters can be opened. it will also be necessary to develop a tailor-made pre-accession strategy for croatia. the commission will do that. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the commission will assess progress fairly and objectively and will take this as a basis for establishing progress in the negotiations. i believe that the commission's recommendation is an important and strong signal not only for croatia but for the whole region. it shows the other countries in the region, which for various reasons still have a long way to go to come close to meeting the criteria, that strong efforts are worthwhile and that the european union is responding appropriately to the efforts of a country seeking membership and to the merits of such a country. (applause from the centre)
- thank you, commissioner verheugen, for the precise analysis in favour of the croatian delegation. i have now received four requests to speak in accordance with the catch-the-eye procedure. i refer to rule 38, which states that members may, after receiving a communication from the commission, 'ask brief and precise questions'. please note that "precise" in this case means one minute.
commission. mr president, perhaps i could answer the first two of those questions, since the third was put directly to my colleague, commissioner verheugen, and in the light of his experience in dealing so successfully with enlargement i can refer that to him – although i will have a go if he likes! in response to mr dupuis, i say with all modesty – and it perhaps reflects the failures of my political career – that is a good 12 years since i have been able to say 'speaking on behalf of the british government'. so my ability to respond on behalf of her majesty's administration in london is somewhat limited. i am sure that the united kingdom government will, as ever, take close note of what the honourable member has said and i am sure – this also relates to the point that baroness ludford made – that both the government in the united kingdom and the government in the netherlands will want to reflect on the issue of ratification in view of the comments of the chief prosecutor at the hague. i had noticed what the british minister of state, denis mcshane, my old school mate, said yesterday in the region. he felt himself able to announce that we were going to make this very positive decision today, so we welcome his support. i would like to respond to what the honourable member said about regional cooperation. in the last year there have been one or two difficulties, for example the dispute with slovenia, which we regret and which we hope can now be resolved. it has, however, been a consistent feature of the way that governments have behaved over the last few years. both mr racan's government and the present government have played an extremely positive role in working to resolve the problems in the region. i would like to pay a personal tribute to the former foreign minister, mr picula, who did a great deal to work constructively with the region, and i know that his successor will not mind me doing this. i am sure mr zuzul will follow that lead and i know that he and the prime minister have already taken steps which have encouraged others in the region to regard croatia as an extremely cooperative partner. my colleague commissioner verheugen may wish to add to what i have to say on the question of the timetable, but in my experience from watching him deal with enlargement over the last few years, the timetable depends above all on the efforts made by the states concerned. if i may offer one word of advice to the croatian government it is that it should concentrate its energies, as it has done in the last few years, on substance rather than process. it should concentrate on getting on with making changes which will still be required, rather than focusing its energies on asking about dates and speculating about dates. (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to express my great pleasure that this day is possible today, and i would like to thank the two commissioners, as chairman of the south-east european delegation, on behalf of all those who are unable to speak at the moment. i think we can all be very happy about what mr patten and mr verheugen have said, and also about the factual aspects. you have justified the fact that croatia can now be granted candidate country status. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to add my voice to what joost lagendijk said. can we do something about the fact that the fact that the stability pact has not yet been signed is being seen as an obstacle to the opening of negotiations? this is an important question which we would like to have answered by one of the commissioners. once again, i would like to thank you and congratulate you on the wonderful decision you have taken today.
- the next item is the continuation of the joint debate on the commission statement on eurostat and the discharge for 2002.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on civil liberties and justice and home affairs. the commission has already done so. on behalf of the committee on the internal market, i am also pleased to note that the court of auditors was able to establish with reasonable assurance that the accounts for the financial year ended 31 december 2002 are reliable and that our three agencies have also been confirmed as having done a good job and an excellent job for the european union. as regards the criticism of the monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, i would like to say that i shall have the opportunity to speak again at midnight tonight. i hope that tomorrow we will adopt a regulation for this observatory, and that we will be able to act in a very preventive manner and avoid many things together with our observatory. i am therefore happy to make this announcement on behalf of my committee.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are debating the important issue of discharge at night and with a weak occupation. it is the last discharge that the european parliament in its present composition will have to decide on. it is also the last discharge for the commission, this commission, and it is also the last time i am allowed to take part in a discharge procedure. i would like to thank you for that. i would like to thank the members of this house and the committee, the rapporteurs and our secretariat. it has always been a very good agreement, and i think we have put a lot of work into it, but we have also been successful. i would also like to thank the court of auditors for its reports. they have been the basis of our work, and i would like to thank the commission and you, madam commissioner, very much. they are, of course, the focus of our monitoring and evaluation. i think it is clear that the willingness to talk and the openness between the commission and parliament have increased. i thank you for that. however, the explanation to eurostat has disappointed me a little. the committee on budgetary control will continue to examine the commission's activities critically, that is its task. if the commission succeeds in further improving the flow of information, including within its own institution, if transparency and accountability actually take place, if bureaucratic red tape is reduced and if errors and shortcomings are more readily recognised and admitted honestly, then parliament's criticism will be less harsh. the reforms that have been sought and initiated must not be put on the back burner. you yourself said, mrs schreyer, that there is an instruction from mr bayona de perogordo in his excellent report. mr president, allow me to express three wishes to the future parliament: that it should become a genuine representative body of the people, with a high level of participation, a loyal collegiality, and that it should avoid many of the criticisms made in mr van hulten's report, and i would like to see a statute for it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say to mrs theato, who is now leaving both the presidency and parliament: i admit, mrs theato, that it was only in the second half of our journey together that i learned to appreciate you. but it's better than the other way around. the second point i would like to make is this: we are witnessing these days an attempt to abuse budgetary control and the powers of budgetary control for the purpose of waging a political struggle against the community institutions, in this case the commission. i am not blaming my good friend chris heaton-harris, nor mr sjöstedt, nor jens peter bonde, nor mr callanan, who has made a rather surprising statement on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. the crucial question is whether the rest of parliament is blind enough to join in. this is not a question for those who are fighting against the community institutions, but it is a question for those who are the majority in this parliament. i think we must ask ourselves critically whether certain tendencies within ourselves, in our own work as the committee on budgetary control, are not contributing to the negligence of some of those who are here these days. i would like to give a few examples. while the anti-integration groups and minorities in the large groups have discovered the committee on budgetary control as their instrument and the stage for their work and are working accordingly, some groups are too fine to work in the committee on budgetary control, and some national delegations in particular. this is the first condition for certain political forces to be able to use the committee on budgetary control. the second point is my factual controversy with jan mulder on the question of political responsibility. i think we need a little more intercultural competence in this parliament so that we do not try to make our national conceptions - in this case the conception of what political responsibility is - the general standard for 15 - soon 25 - member states without first having checked whether the administrative and decision-making structures in this association are at all appropriate. we'll have to check that out first. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the debate on the future of the european union, but that it should be involved in the debate on the future of the union. this gives the rumor a certain degree of credibility. first, it is important to check whether there is any factual basis for the existence of certain rumors. you don't have to jump over every sausage that the anti-integrationists and some media throw at you. the next point: we have a tendency to say, but i am whiter than white and above all whiter than the others. there is a fatal competition between some members of the same nationality from different political groups. let me end by giving an example, mr president. i had two members of a group sitting in my office when i was rapporteur and they said to me: 'mr kuhne, you have written a wonderful report, we do not need to table a single amendment, we can only vote against it because we cannot be seen as less reform-minded in our own country than they are. this is also a way of undermining the credibility of the european institutions, and we should all learn a lesson from this.
- mr kuhne, i agree with what you are saying and that is why, as president, although i am not really allowed to do so, nevertheless - as this is my last sitting in parliament - i have allocated some of the speaking time we have won to you. but otherwise you should respect the time limit.
- i would like to make two comments. first of all, mr bonde, i always allow about 10% more speaking time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. they have not been treated unfairly. secondly, i would like to say personally that i very much regret that the spokesman for the european taxpayers, mr hans-peter martin, is absent from this evening's debate, where there is work for him to do. i miss him so much. in conclusion, i have received six motions for resolutions on eurostat, pursuant to rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. see the minutes. the vote on the reports will take place at 12 noon on wednesday. the vote on the proposals for the declaration on eurostat will take place on thursday. the negotiations are over.
- the next item is the report (a5-0271/2004) by mr boogerd-quaak, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european community and the united states of america on the processing and transfer of pnr data by air carriers to the united states department of homeland security, bureau of customs and border protection (com (2004) 190 - c5-0162/2004 - 2004/0064 (cns)).
- commissioner, i understand why you have been speaking for so long, and according to our rules of procedure you can speak as long as you wish. on the other hand, it is also clear from our rules of procedure that the president must try to reach an agreement with the commission on speaking time. i would ask you to be brief when you summarize the conclusions of the individual negotiations this evening.
- thank you, mr president, for that clarification. it helps to create an atmosphere in parliament. the commissioner has the right to demand that such matters be resolved. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0230/2004) by mr boogerd-quaak, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and human rights, justice and home affairs, on the risk of infringement of freedom of expression and information (article 11 (2) of the charter of fundamental rights) in the european union and in particular in italy. the president has received a letter from mr ribeiro e castro, who is uncertain whether this debate is allowed. i therefore give the floor to mr ribeiro e castro for two minutes so that he can explain himself.
- mr ribeiro e castro, according to the rules of procedure you should have had only one minute, and you can thank my generosity for having two. the fact that you have spoken for two and a half minutes is not really acceptable. but now to the matter at hand. the rules of procedure contain a provision requiring that such a proposal for rejection be made 24 hours in advance. that deadline has not been met and even if it had been, the president has independently decided that the substance of your proposal must be rejected, and i share that view. we shall now continue the debate.
- mr tajani, you will in any case be entered in the minutes by virtue of your speaking. i will of course also forward your request to the president, but that does not change the fact that we are now continuing the debate.
- mrs angelilli, i think it is worth noting that there is no documented case of a member or an observer signing with a false signature. i owe it to the members of parliament who are here to say that.
- i have said what i have to say on that matter, and now that the clock is ticking, i will not allow any further debate.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0229/2004) by mr angelilli, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation imposing an obligation on the competent authorities of the member states to stamp systematically the travel documents of third-country nationals when crossing the external borders of the member states and amending, to that end, the convention implementing the schengen agreement and the common manual (com (2003) 664 - c5-0580/2003 - 2003/0258 (cns)).
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. i thank mr podestà for substituting for me for a minute, and i would like to have that recorded.
- the next item is the report (a5-0248/2004) by mr ceyhun, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and human rights, on the proposal for a council regulation on the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (recast) (com (2003) 808 - c5-0060/2004 - 2003/0311 (cns)).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. the commissioner has said everything that the rapporteur should have said. i think we as a parliament can agree on the need to revise this regulation. i think i can only express my gratitude to the commission, to mrs malliori and to the management of the observatory here in public. one point on which we are unlikely to agree, although i assume that we will probably adopt the rapporteur's proposal tomorrow as a parliamentary decision, is whether the members of this house may serve as members of the administrative council. the commission was against it. she justified it. the committee on civil liberties and justice and home affairs did not agree. i have been quite open about this as rapporteur, but i accept the decision of the committee on the environment, the majority of this body. the home affairs committee has not seen any problems with conflicts of interest. i therefore assume that we can accept this observatory as well as the other three agencies, and if parliament believes that the members play an important role in the work of this body, then i assume that the commission will also accept this as a democratic decision of this house. the ultimate aim of both sides is to make the work as effective as possible in the near future and to make this observatory work much better in the end. i think that is the purpose of our work, and in that spirit i expect that we will make a sensible decision tomorrow and that the observatory will be able to continue its work with a significant increase in strength.
- this meeting is adjourned. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the agenda for the next meeting: see minutes. unfortunately, mr ceyhun was right when he said that it would be his turn after midnight. it has always been my aim that the night meetings should end at exactly 24:00. i didn't quite make it today, where we were 10 minutes overtime. i would like to thank the commissioner, who has a great deal of credit, for the fact that it is only 10 minutes. i would ask the interpreters in the cabins and the people on the stage to understand that it took 10 minutes longer. we did our best! (the sitting was closed at 12.00 p.m.)
i was not originally going to call, but i have to call now after greg watson, the leader of the liberal group, has spoken. because he's asked us to withdraw our applications. i would like to inform mr watson that there are 338 amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is a false pretence to pretend that these are only motions from our group. there are many members who are dissatisfied with this report and that is why there are 181 motions from other groups. i would stress, mr president, that it is not just our group's proposals that are discussed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i wanted to report to the previous item on the agenda. i do not wish to comment on the debates and proceedings in the committee, nor on what has obviously happened here tonight. i would like to support you in your project on behalf of my group and just say that we want this subject to be put to the vote because we consider it too important politically to be removed from the agenda in any way.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, at the request of the conference of presidents, has presented a report based on the work of mr poos, which, from our point of view, is also intended to ensure that guarantees are respected and that the annan plan can really be implemented without major problems for the citizens. we must understand that such issues are demanded by the population and that such solutions cannot be settled to the satisfaction of every individual, for example, when we consider the issues related to assets, resettlement or the compromise issues related to the deployment of military personnel. it must be clear that everyone can exercise his right, including by bringing an action before the courts in luxembourg and strasbourg. but we must also make it clear that a positive solution to these problems, a unification of this island, will lead to an improvement in the situation of the people on both sides of the demarcation line, and that therefore not every single issue should stand in the way of this general possibility of a solution. i think - and this is the view of the european people's party, for which i have the honour of speaking here - that a compromise had to be found and that this is a fair compromise in the circumstances, that we as the european community must also ensure that people have confidence in this plan and that we should promote that this confidence must also be underpinned by our side. i therefore think it is important that the poos resolution, in paragraphs 13 and 14, clearly states that all the institutions of the world concerned are called upon to provide guarantees that the annan plan will be implemented and that this european parliament, too, will be constantly monitored by its competent bodies throughout the process to ensure that these guarantees are respected so that such reunification will benefit the people. i myself became a member of this house when my own country was divided. not everything is comparable. it's not one nation, it's two different nations in one country. that's the difference. but i think we have to see that there are problems with such a reunification, but that the benefits to both sides in total far outweigh any costs. the european union is not a party to the cyprus problem, but it is a party to the cyprus problem. we must also know that in such a community of nations we must render services to one another so that we can live together in trust in this community of nations, and that words must be kept. on this basis, we are issuing a request to follow the plan. that's all we can do. the first donor conference last week, for example, agreed on high figures and showed a willingness to support this process accordingly. i hope that on this basis, and in the spirit of what commissioner verheugen has said, who has been working on this issue for many years, we will have a positive vote on saturday.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i had the opportunity to talk to the island last week. the process of eu accession has given hope for a solution to the conflict, but some steps have fallen short of expectations, especially among the greek population. the fact that negotiations were held in new york and switzerland has hardly reached the citizens of the towns and villages of cyprus. the efforts of secretary-general kofi annan deserve high respect, but to convey 9 000 pages of treaty texts to the two island communities in a few weeks is not only difficult but has also been difficult or impossible, given the different political interests involved. even in the republic of cyprus government, as the president and the coalition partners have shown, there are very different assessments, commissioner. for the reasons i have just mentioned, there were serious voices calling for the referendum to be postponed in order to allow more time for information and opinion-forming. the government party akel, which is associated with my group, is not opposed to the annan plan, but in view of the situation it is very concerned about the failure of the referendum, as has already been said here. it seems necessary, therefore, to send out clear signals once again from the eu and also from the united nations. we shouldn't minimize anything. the country has experienced a war. its northern part has been occupied by the turks for 30 years. there must be clear and unambiguous signs of peace and security in the existing fears, and there must also be clear in the existing fears that there are no unilateral advantages. the 100% you rightly question is also about the problem of these fears. politics is not based on definitions and eternal truths. this is also true of the experience of the process of german unification. it is always in the midst of processes which can be more or less imagined, but which require constant active and very deliberate action. the eu has a duty to be a reliable partner in this critical situation, together with the united nations of the republic of cyprus, but also with both ethnic groups, in the resolution of the conflict. it is not just cyprus that will benefit, but europe as a whole, if we succeed in healing this wound.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. on 1 may cyprus will become a member of the european union. we have always hoped that the accession process can act as a catalyst for overcoming division. in three days' time, the cypriots will have to decide for themselves whether they will live in a common state again after almost 30 years, whether they will rejoin the eu after almost 30 years. the time since 23 april last year, the time since the green line became permeable for the cypriots, has clearly shown that the cypriots of both communities can and want to live peacefully with each other. the un secretary-general's plan for a solution, which will be put to the vote in both assemblies on 24 april, is a compromise between the wishes and legitimate demands of both sides. perhaps it is not fully balanced, perhaps it has weaknesses in terms of the strength of the central state, perhaps the guarantees for the implementation of individual measures are not clear enough. but are these doubts enough to say no? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am sure that after 20 years of commitment to cyprus, to accession, to unity, the opportunities are much greater than the risks. we don't have to decide on the 24th. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. but what we have here, what the european parliament can say with certainty, is that today we are writing the year 2004, not 1964 or 1974. a united cyprus will become a member state and as a member state of the european union will not only enjoy the full protection of membership, but also the responsibility of the entire european union for the successful implementation of the annan plan, which guarantees the chance of peaceful coexistence. the european parliament will today commit itself to accompanying the whole process of implementation through its own committee work. we are seeing a lot of anxiety at the moment, especially amongst greek cypriots looking back. but looking to the future is the better way to look. turkey in 2004 is a turkey with a european perspective and no longer the turkey of 1974. the turkish cypriots have already shown in december that they have largely emancipated themselves from rauf denktash. besides, there won't be another chance soon. the alternative is to continue to divide. this plan gives an opportunity and this plan must not be lost by lack of or false information. we are here today as members of the european parliament to speak to our fellow citizens in this union. neither the statement of an eu commissioner nor the statements of the european parliament or individual members are interference or external pressure. it is good advice, it is information given within a family in which we will have to shape the future of europe together from 1 may. i hope that this 1 may will be a real celebration of unity in cyprus, a unity of all the cypriots and the almost 450 million people in the union.
council. mr president, following the targeted killing of the new hamas leader, abdel aziz al-rantissi, the president of the council issued a statement on 18 april expressing his deep concern at the ongoing and seemingly endless cycle of retaliatory violence involving palestinian groups and the israeli authorities and defence forces. the statement condemned both the assassination of the hamas leader and the suicide bombing at the erez crossing into the gaza strip which took place on the same day. the statement went on to say that such violence should end immediately and pointed to the self-evident futility of such violence, either as a means of freeing palestinians from occupation or bringing long-term peace and security to the people of israel. the president of the council once again reminded the israeli government that extrajudicial killings are contrary to international law and pointed out that respect for international law should mark an immediate distinction between democratically elected governments and terrorist groups. meanwhile, at the conclusion of the foreign ministers' informal meeting in tullamore on 17 april, the president of the council issued an important statement on behalf of his colleagues concerning the current situation in the middle east. the eu foreign ministers reaffirmed certain basic principles of european policy towards any settlement in the middle east conflict, including its commitment to a negotiated two-state solution agreed between the parties. this would result in a viable, contiguous, sovereign and independent palestinian state, existing side by side and in peace with an israel living within recognised and secure boundaries. the ministers reaffirmed that the roadmap represented the only route to achieving such an outcome. the union is determined to pursue vigorously the course set out in the roadmap and calls on both sides to fulfil their obligations under the roadmap. the established position of the european union, restated by the european council of 25 and 26 march, is that the union will not recognise any change in the pre-1967 borders, other than those arrived at by agreement between the parties. the union has emphasised that no declared views on the possible shape of the final settlement can pre-empt the negotiations of that settlement. ministers pointed out that the refugee question, and the manner in which the right to return may be realised, are also final status issues. the roadmap states that a final and comprehensive permanent status agreement that ends the israeli-palestinian conflict must include an agreed, just, fair and realistic solution to this question. in this context, the union has noted president bush's reaffirmation of the united states' commitment to the roadmap and to a negotiated settlement. the union emphasises the principle, shared by president bush, that final status issues are a matter of negotiation and agreement between the parties themselves and that they must not be prejudiced. ministers also agreed with the president of the united states that secure and recognised borders should emerge from negotiations between the parties in accordance with un security council resolution 242 and un resolution 338. these and other relevant security council resolutions must form the basis for a just and lasting settlement of the conflict. in other words the conflict will not be sorted out by unilateral action. the prospect of israel's withdrawal from the gaza strip is welcome. the european council has stated that such a withdrawal should represent a significant step towards the implementation of the roadmap, provide that it is carried out in accordance with certain conditions. this is an opportunity which the international community, led by the quartet, should seize. the proposed withdrawal should be properly orchestrated with the international community, so as to ensure that an orderly situation in gaza results, which would permit the maintenance of security as well as the rehabilitation and the reconstruction that is so urgently needed in that area. the union urges all parties urgently to undertake preparations towards that end. on this basis the european union is ready to support the palestinian authority in taking responsibility for law and order, as well as to continue the union's existing aid to the palestinian authority and to examine possible future needs that may arise in the context of a new situation in gaza. ministers also stressed the need to avoid a political vacuum and the dangers that it would involve in the interim period between now and the beginnings of any withdrawal. they recalled that there are a number of measures which need to be adopted in the period immediately ahead in the political, security and humanitarian spheres in order to prevent further deterioration and in order to resume progress. an end to violence and terrorism, as well as the resumption of the ceasefire embracing all of the parties and all of the groups, is essential. both sides need to resume negotiations on the peace process without further delay. we all know from past experience and from history that resolution to difficult and complex issues invariably comes through negotiation, and in fact only comes through negotiation. a just, lasting and a comprehensive peace must meet the legitimate aspirations of both the israeli and the palestinian people and must include lebanon and syria. all states in the region must exert every effort to promote peace and to combat terrorism. the european union looks forward to the forthcoming meeting of the quartet at principles level. the quartet should play an active role in pursuing the goal of a comprehensive regional peace and encourage the parties to move ahead vigorously on the basis of the principles outlined above. the ministers will have a further discussion on the middle east process at the meetings of the council on monday. they will consider the position to be taken by the european union at the meeting of the quartet, which will take place in new york on 4 may. i hope that i have succeeded in giving the members a clear impression of how actively focused this presidency remains when it comes to the very difficult situation in the middle east. we will, by the same token, listen with great attention to the views of parliament on this important issue at this time.
commission. mr president, i do not wish to repeat or intend to repeat what the presidency has just said about recent discussions on the middle east by the council or how it has reacted to the statement made by president bush in washington last week after his meeting with prime minister sharon. the statement surprised many people, whether understandably or not, and one cannot disguise the fact that it seems to have caused great concern in the arab world. some have subsequently argued that it should not have done so. they have said that it offers a way into the implementation of that roadmap, rather than a tearing-up of the roadmap. they have argued that we should seek out the positive, like the promised and welcomed israeli withdrawal from gaza, rather than focus on the negative. so be it. i do not seek to second-guess the doubtless well-intentioned interpretations of others or to undermine efforts to make the most of the present, exceptionally difficult, situation. some of course always see a glass as half full when others believe it is half empty. others find it rather challenging to believe that a glass is half full when they cannot see very much liquid in the glass at all. i guess that like beauty, truth is in the eye of the beholder. i do not wish to dwell on those matters. i will just make five points which we must address if we are to draw anything positive from the present grim situation. first, as the general affairs and external relations council and the european council has said again and again, a final settlement can only be achieved as a result of negotiations between israel and the palestinians, resulting in two viable sovereign and independent states based on the borders of 1967, perhaps amended by agreement, living side by side in peace and security as laid out, for example, in the roadmap. this has been the main thread of european thinking, from venice in 1980 to berlin in 1999, to seville in 2002 and right up to the latest european council conclusions of last month. it is not surprising that we have agreed with what for 37 years has been the consistent american position, that settlements beyond the 1967 borders are illegal and represent 'obstacles to peace'. we all know what the ingredients for a final settlement will be. they are contained in the mitchell report and in subsequent documents, including the arab league peace initiative of 2002. they are also in the roadmap that has been endorsed by the international community. a settlement does not await some heavenly insight. it awaits the exercise of political will by both sides – israeli and palestinian. it is in my judgment a tragedy that the courageous proposals of the representatives of civil society who negotiated the geneva initiative do not seem to be shared by the political leadership in their communities. second, we deplore the violence which postpones reconciliation and any chance whatsoever of peace. we have always deplored without reservation and condemned with all our strength the suicide bombings that take innocent lives and the dark propaganda that clouds the minds of so many. we are also profoundly critical of heavy-handed military retaliation which destroys lives, homes and livelihoods, the sort of retaliation which increases extremism and does not increase security. we believe that targeted assassinations are wrong, illegal and counter-productive. one of the palestinian politicians whom i most admire, a voice of sanity and reason, referred recently to the deafening sound of war drums on both sides and to the bitter fact that both communities seem to be locked in an embrace in which all that seems to matter is causing pain to the other side. there is plenty of pain on offer, but not much promise of peace. third, whatever the criticisms of the european approach to the dispute, we can say that we have sustained, throughout the weeks, months and years of bloodshed and hopelessness, institutions which can one day form the basis for a reformed palestinian government. that has been the policy of the european council, endorsed by this parliament. we have been congratulated for what we have done by, among others, the world bank. only recently i received a letter from the palestinian finance minister, salam fayad, which noted that with the help of the european union the palestinian authority has now delivered on all of the reform commitments it had made to the palestinian legislative council a year and a half ago. there is now a high degree of accountability, with transparent budget procedures. there are no more cash payments to palestinian security personnel, whose salaries are now transferred through bank accounts. we have been encouraged, in private, to do more – to give more help. we have been criticised in public for doing anything at all. some have argued that there could actually be a no more serious accusation than that the attempt to promote reform and sustain some sort of life in palestine has bankrolled terrorism. parliament has held its own inquiry into these matters and olaf has investigated these allegations. i have no more to say on the subject, save to pay tribute to my officials who have tried to implement a difficult policy honestly, transparently and with integrity. when i look at what has happened in the last few years i can see all too little else that has achieved as much as they have. turning to the future, it is said by some – perhaps a trifle glibly – that after the promised withdrawal we will rebuild gaza and try to create the foundations for a new palestine. what they presumably have in mind is a palestine which is genuinely viable, not a collection of isolated bantustans divided by tanks, settlements and walls. we are certainly prepared to continue our humanitarian assistance and to support the rebuilding of the infrastructure of those areas from which the israeli defence forces withdraw. but i have to say that this time we should seek certain guarantees from the israeli defence forces that they will not destroy again what we build. they should take into account the five points made by the european council of 25 and 26 march, notably, the anchoring of the withdrawal within the roadmap and the facilitation of economic life in the territory that the israeli defence forces leave. it was the world bank that noted that the biggest obstacle to economic revival is lack of access and a lack of sufficient freedom of movement of persons and goods. access to the outside world is essential for reviving the palestinian economy. we should also seek to ensure that humanitarian assistance can be provided as it would be elsewhere. at present it costs more to provide the assistance than in most other places because of the behaviour and activities of the security forces. if we are to find a way back into implementation of the roadmap then we need to discuss very carefully with the israeli government the terms of withdrawal and see how we can associate the management of the withdrawal with the objectives of the roadmap. our aim must be that israelis recognise again the palestinian authority as their partner in the peace process. the objective should be to hand over gaza and parts of the west bank to the palestinian authority, not to hamas, and to ensure that the handover takes place in an orderly fashion, not in a way that leads to more chaos and more violence. finally, there are still – thank heaven – some moderates in palestine, israel and the arab world. i ask this question as quietly and diplomatically as i can: how much support are we giving those moderates today? if we are not prepared to be courageous for moderation, how can we expect them to be? it is not hyperbolic to say that the outlook today in the region is more worrying than it has been for some time. it certainly seems to me a good deal more disturbing than it looked, for example, at the beginning of last year when we were being told that the road to peace in the middle east lay in the military liberation of baghdad and the installation of democracy in iraq. maybe one day iraq will be stable and democratic and maybe it will be a beacon for other countries in the region. how could one hope for anything else? whatever one's views about the past, what else is there to work for? however, if we are to have any chance of achieving that outcome and of encouraging modernisation and democracy in the whole region, then we have to avoid words and policies that alienate large parts of the islamic world and threaten the very clash of civilisations which all sane men and women should want to avoid at all costs. it has been a deeply depressing feature of my five years as a commissioner that the world i look out onto today seems to be far more dangerous than it was in 1999. we must always try to work for a better world and not throw in our hand in introverted despair. today, among other things, we must see what we can rescue from what is left of the middle east peace process. it is not a very encouraging prospect, but what alternative is there? (applause)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think the commissioner's speech made it clear at the beginning that what is happening now needs interpretation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i must admit that the very first reaction of the irish presidency is more in favour of the first position and that the position of some foreign ministers in their formulations was more in favour of the second. i rather appreciate the position of the foreign ministers, including that of the german foreign minister, who said that this initiative is bringing movement into the process, and we must now use this movement. the european union should speak out against the withdrawal from gaza, which was also reiterated yesterday and today by the two representatives of the geneva initiative, and say to the parties to the conflict, in particular israel, that this withdrawal must be the first step towards withdrawal from the entire occupied territory. so the retreat is right. in this respect, a prime minister who is also a member of the political right in israel and who may soon be forcibly removing settlers from their homes in gaza needs a wider framework in which to explain this. if we can really achieve a withdrawal from gaza, an orderly handover to the palestinian authority, as the commissioner has just called for, that many of the houses currently in use there can then be used by the people of gaza, that the infrastructure is not destroyed but handed over to the palestinian authority, then a new opportunity for peace can emerge. if we say that everything is in vain, that everything is going down the drain, the process is on a downward trend, then we have no chance of influence. if we see this positive variant here and act on it, i believe that the roadmap can be filled with new life. if you read the letter from the american president to the israeli prime minister carefully, you will find that the israelis are also supposed to have some things in common, that the american president also speaks of un security council resolution 242, that the american president also says that only a negotiated solution can bring about a result in the end, and that we should insist very explicitly on these passages of his letter in our further position on this conflict. let me say a second thing: i believe that in fact a solution to this conflict, which is not limited to gaza, can only have a future in two states that are viable and independent. the commissioner also touched on the work of this parliament with regard to the use of european funds. we have adopted two reports on this subject, one majority and one minority report, but we have reached 80% agreement. one result can be announced before this house today: the accusation that the european union has financed terrorism is neither substantiated nor tenable. the question of whether the decision to grant direct budgetary aid was right or wrong can be answered in different ways. it was not, however, taken by the commissioner, but by the foreign ministers. the commission has done everything it can to contribute to the reform of the palestinian authority, it has made a great deal of effort to control what happens to european funds, and we can see today that the situation in the palestinian authority is better than it was three years ago. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
- i am sorry, mr president, that there was so much unrest before the vote. (the sitting was suspended and resumed at 3 p.m.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the agreement improves the legal position of european passengers, and i want to make it very clear that we - and commissioner patten has announced what is going to happen - will clearly hold accountable those who will be responsible for this chaos, and also tell european citizens who has infringed their rights in this matter. thank you, thank you! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very sympathetic to mr enrique barón crespo, but i have not understood his conclusion. you asked a question, mr barón crespo made a statement, but he did not come to a conclusion. that is why i have come to say that i would like to support your proposal to take the vote tomorrow. we are in a difficult situation with 338 applications, which are being multiplied by procedural issues. i am very keen to stress this, ladies and gentlemen, and i say it calmly and objectively. we have already discussed this question at the beginning of the sitting at 9 a.m. this morning. it has been said by a group chairman that the motions come from the epp-ed group. i would point out that the 383 motions for resolutions that are before us are not just from the epp-ed group. the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i would ask you to take note of this first. i do not want to comment on the quality of the report now, because i do not want to aggravate the situation, but i would like to ask us together to reach a conclusion on a difficult question. if you propose, mr president - and we know you as an objective and fair president of this house - to vote on this report at noon tomorrow on the basis of your proposal, we will support you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would simply like to inform the council in the letter that an error has crept into the german version of the common position. in the negotiations with the council we have clearly insisted on replacing the term 'high-speed sea routes' by the term 'motorway of the sea', as we want to promote slow ferries as well as high-speed ferries. i therefore ask you to mention in the communication to the council that a linguistic error has crept into the german version with regard to the concept of motorway of the sea. i think that is the general view of the house.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. that's correct, and i thank him. i only heard and , 29 and 32 in the translation. i understand that 30 and 31 are also superfluous, because they cover exactly the same area. maybe it was a translation error. i think we can all agree, freddy, that your things are, in fact, obsolete.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. if i understand correctly, mr hans-peter martin did not take part in this vote. i would regret that very much, because we have now undertaken a comprehensive reform, and i hope that he will support us accordingly on these matters as well. it is common knowledge that people take part in such votes, and i would have been delighted if he had tabled some amendments to put his reform agenda to the vote here as well.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i ask you, as chairman of the temporary committee, to vote on the sterckx report, on which we have been working for six months, because otherwise it risks being lost. i would ask you to respect the work of colleagues who have been working for six months and to allow us to vote on the sterckx report. (applause from the centre)
council. mr president, again i wish to thank members for their contributions, not all of which i will be able to cover. parliament is well aware of how vital the transatlantic relationship is. indeed, i almost signed up for mr van orden's presentation when he said that all sniping should stop, but i unfortunately part company with him on his portrayal of the new constitutional treaty. that is a debate for another time. he is right that it is all too easy to fall into the trap of sniping at the transatlantic relationship, and at the americans in particular. we know about the shared history of europe and north america, how the history has been shaped and how it has shaped the values we both share – mr collins made that point. all too often, however, the differences between the united states and europe make the headlines. it is time to promote the positive element of the relationship and to look at what we can achieve together, rather than continuously to focus on those issues on which we cannot agree. we should consider how we turn the ideas we share into a common reality. that is the challenge that faces political leadership in europe and in the united states. like all close partnerships, we do not agree on all issues at all times. even the happiest marriages occasionally have points of disagreement. we must, however, work to maintain our dialogue and to cooperate in areas of shared interest. mr suominen was right to say that finger pointing is neither attractive nor productive. i would certainly agree with that view. when mr collins pointed out the benefits of an effective multilateralist approach, as seen from europe's viewpoint, he did so without the necessity that some people feel to attack the american viewpoint. he simply put forward the fact that there are two different viewpoints and proposed that we should work to produce a synthesis rather than to generate disagreement. the fact is that we are working successfully with our united states partners across a full range of foreign policy issues, trade issues and economic issues in a sprit of partnership. there certainly are – and will continue to be – areas of disagreement. the reality that so much that we do in this relationship is positive should not be obscured by the disagreements of the moment. mr belder mentioned the marshall plan. it was very interesting and timely that he should do so, because we need to remind ourselves that if it were not for the extraordinary generosity of the united states and the marshall plan, where would europe be and where would this union have been? the forthcoming eu-us summit in june is vital. it is very important in terms of the relationship and it is important that we share views, discuss differences and identify more clearly the areas of cooperation. the irish presidency is working hard to ensure a successful summit. that is not to suggest that we are supine or that we would not agree occasionally to disagree on issues – of course we will. however, we in the presidency will do all we can to steer the relationship back onto a positive and productive track. i would just like to mention, because a number of members made this point, that what we say in europe is amplified in the usa, and that what we say here is very frequently misportrayed over there. i am often shocked when i am in the united states at how often europe is misunderstood and sometimes misrepresented. however, i have no doubt that visitors from the united states listening to our debates must sometimes be mystified as to how the united states is perceived, misunderstood and misrepresented here in europe. as politicians, we have a responsibility to inform our citizens about the positive aspects of the relationship, notwithstanding the fact that there are occasional blips in it. in the past that relationship has been incredibly positive and i believe that will continue to be the case. one speaker made the point that this was a good debate to have and a good time to have it. i agree. i thank members for their contributions, in all their diversity. while it will not be possible to follow all the advice that has been proffered simultaneously, i feel it important to say that the presidency has listened very carefully to what this house has had to say on this matter.
chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. the commission is not i would be extremely grateful if you would give me the opportunity to say one more thing about transatlantic relations. i would like to make a specific appeal to the house to support this resolution, because, as the debate has shown - and there will also be support from the council presidency and certainly from the commission - we must strengthen transatlantic relations so that they are no longer based solely on nato and security policy, but that we broaden them, deepen them. the idea of the transatlantic marketplace is certainly a matter of the utmost importance. it would therefore be useful if an expert group could be set up at the eu-us summit to carry out the necessary studies in the coming months, which would enable us to get more involved in this project. this is not only an economic issue but also one of direct importance for the deepening of transatlantic relations. it is also true that my committee - unlike the committee in charge - actually believes that the commission's negotiating results on air transport should be welcomed, so that the situation for people travelling back and forth does not deteriorate in these times, and that we should therefore also promote a practical approach here to strengthen relations in this way, also in the age of terrorism.
council. mr president, i am reminded of an occasion when a senior politician in ireland was described in very uncomplimentary terms because he was up and down so frequently making contributions. i will not go any further into the quotation, but will be available for private consultation on it later on! i would like to thank the house for this opportunity to address the situation in pakistan. i know that this is an issue on which there are divided and diverse views. the council considers it vitally important that the european union should continue to strengthen its relationship with pakistan. that view is shared by pakistan itself. an enhanced relationship between the european union and pakistan is not just important on a bilateral basis. it is also important given the context of pakistan's regional role in south asia. i am therefore pleased to note that parliament's committee on foreign affairs – and i see mr brok is here to present its views – last week approved the conclusion of the third generation agreement with pakistan, and that in consequence a resolution to that effect is before parliament and will be voted on later. parliament is aware that the council is of the view that the agreement is an important element in building an enhanced relationship with pakistan. in such a relationship pakistan can demonstrate its commitment to the respect, protection and promotion of human rights and to democratic principles, as reflected in the universal declaration of human rights and contained in article 1 of the agreement. we all know that serious concerns remain in relation to human rights and democratic principles in pakistan. indeed, these concerns have been outlined in the resolution and recognised in the work of the committee. i can well understand that the committee needed time to weigh up carefully the pros and cons of the issue and would like to extend my appreciation to the committee members and in particular to its chairman, mr brok, and to the rapporteur, mr cushnahan, for the work they have done in this area. i can assure parliament that the council is well aware of the concerns that have been aired in the committee and takes those concerns very seriously. at the end of february this year ireland's foreign minister, mr brian cowen, as president-in-office of the council of ministers, conveyed those concerns to president musharraf and to the pakistani foreign minister when the eu ministerial troika visited islamabad. the well-documented revelations regarding dr khan and the proliferation of nuclear technology were also addressed. the eu ministerial troika expressed its grave concern at these revelations. for its part the pakistani side assured the european union that the revelations will continue to be fully investigated. the presidency hopes this investigation will be thorough and credible. the european union will continue to monitor this issue. there are other political issues which give rise to serious concern. the situation within the parliament, where the committee system has yet to be fully established, is far from ideal. furthermore, on 13 april mr hashmi, president of the alliance for the restoration of democracy, was sentenced to a total of 23 years imprisonment for what pakistani authorities called 'inciting the army to mutiny'. the european union has raised and will continue to raise with the pakistani authorities its concern at these issues and the implications they could have for future eu-pakistan relations. there is also the position of religious minorities and journalists, who have been subject to restrictions on freedom of expression, arbitrary arrest and worse. we are concerned at all these issues. nevertheless, on the positive side of the balance sheet, the third generation agreement would strengthen the platform from which the european union can convey to the pakistani authorities at the highest level the importance it attaches to relations with pakistan and, as part of those relations, our concerns on human rights, democratisation, non-proliferation and other vital issues. i would also mention that the conclusion of the third generation agreement clears the way for immediate conclusion of the technical negotiations already under way between the commission and pakistan on the readmission agreement. it is important to note that there have been a number of other positive developments. during the ministerial troika visit to islamabad the eu welcomed the very important agreement that had just been reached by pakistan and india on modalities for a composite dialogue between the two neighbours, including the issue of jammu and kashmir. it is in the interests of the region, the european union and the wider international community that such positive developments be supported and encouraged. president musharraf's commitment to the fight against terrorism is also to be welcomed. it highlights pakistan's crucial regional role, which has a bearing on the situation in afghanistan and its nascent democratic process. i would also like to point out, again on a positive note, that significant progress has been made on the issue of the tasman spirit since our last meeting. following the very positive moves by the pakistani authorities in response to repeated european representations, all eight people have been released and have now returned to their homes. i am certain that honourable members will welcome this development, as the presidency does. i am also certain that they will take some satisfaction in it because the vigilance and attention this parliament has shown on this issue has been helpful. in summary, while there remain points of concern as regards pakistan, the council considers that the european union must engage with pakistan on those points rather than isolate it. the council will continue to work towards a resolution of these remaining concerns – which are shared by parliament – in the interests of pakistan, the region and the union and, most importantly of all, in the interests of peace in the international community.
commission. mr president, i welcome the vote by the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy at its meeting of 14 april, to recommend approval of the third-generation cooperation agreement with pakistan. i am fully aware that this was passed by a pretty slim majority and that for many committee members this was not a decision that was taken lightly. i very much respect the principled stand taken by the rapporteur during the deliberations that have taken place in the european parliament. i have come to value my honourable friend as a friend of democracy and a friend of human rights in asia and he has done outstanding work as the european union's chief election observer in pakistan and sri lanka. although i sympathise with many of the rapporteur’s views, i was not able to support him in his recommendation to keep the agreement pending. this is because on balance i feel we should regard this agreement as an opportunity to engage positively with pakistan as an important partner in a sensitive region. i therefore hope that plenary, when it votes, will be able to endorse the foreign affairs committee's recommendation that the agreement be concluded. perhaps i could recapitulate why the european commission continues to support the entry into force of this third-generation cooperation agreement. first and foremost, by means of article 1, it offers an opportunity to engage more substantially with pakistan on critical issues of human rights and democracy. secondly, the agreement gives us a better basis for addressing challenges in several key areas, including basic education, trade and institutional links. last but not least, the agreement opens up the possibility of engaging pakistan in new areas not previously covered, such as regional cooperation, money laundering and energy. we regard recent developments as strengthening our position in favour of entering into this agreement, in particular the encouraging efforts for reconciliation with india, as well as domestic political developments in pakistan. as a result of these initiatives there has been a noticeable thaw in pakistan's international relations. for example, there are now indications that pakistan may be readmitted as a full member of the commonwealth in due course. i am also pleased to see that the seamen of the tasman spirit, including the master, have now been released and have returned to greece and the philippines. i know that many members of the house have taken a strong personal interest in this matter. i myself raised it repeatedly with minister kasuri when last i met him in berlin on 31 march; but i have raised the issue on a number of other occasions as well. the release of the men is indeed a very welcome development. we can finally draw a line under this most unfortunate incident and leave remaining issues to be sorted out by the claimants and insurers. however, i would be the last to say that democracy in pakistan is in perfect condition. the discussions on this agreement have very usefully highlighted the many areas of concern in our relations – concerns that are well reflected in the motion for a resolution currently before parliament on the situation concerning human rights and democracy in pakistan. in this regard, the commission would welcome any further guidance parliament may want to offer, in particular in the crucial areas of democratisation and human rights. i am obviously aware of reports that general musharraf may still be in two minds as to whether to shed his army uniform by the end of the year. in this connection, it is helpful that the minister of information has confirmed on the president's behalf that he would stand by his prior commitment. any other outcome would hardly bolster confidence in the constitutional process in pakistan. pakistan needs to overcome the perception that real power lies with the president rather than the elected parliament and the civilian government. i have, however, during my personal visits to pakistan, always been encouraged by the resilience of civil society in that country, and i remain convinced that this is a strength which the country will be able to build on in the future. i would like to associate myself with what the minister roche said about the recent conviction of javed hashmi, president of the alliance for the restoration of democracy. i can assure parliament that we will continue to monitor his case very closely and pursue it strongly in our dialogue with the pakistani government. with regard to the overall human rights situation in pakistan, there have been some positive developments, such as the adoption of a juvenile justice system order, but several serious concerns remain, including the blasphemy law, violence against women, the application of the death penalty and the incidence of child labour. pakistan is a focus country under the european initiative for democracy and human rights, and the commission is actively trying to address some of these issues. this summary shows that the problems and challenges in pakistan are manifold, but there are also advances and positive developments. it is the assessment of this balance that allows me to continue to believe that closer dialogue and cooperation within the structured format offered by the third-generation agreement will best enhance the european union's capacity to help pakistan deal with sensitive issues, including human rights, non-proliferation and counter-terrorism. to sum up, then, i recognise the strength of views of some colleagues who would like to keep this agreement on ice. i think myself that, on balance, we should move ahead with the agreement, and i hope that in doing so we will be able to continue to take an active interest in the development of human rights and democracy in a country which is important to all of us.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i can agree with what has been said in previous speeches, because this is one of those cases where we have to make a balance. this is one of those cases where you can say the glass is half full or half empty, so it's justifiable to come to different judgments without being able to blame anyone. i believe that what mr cushnahan has been saying for months, what is expressed in his resolution, are indeed valid critical points that need to be addressed in relation to pakistan. there is no doubt that democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights, women's rights are not fully developed in the way that one would expect on the basis of the un convention on human rights, which is universal. it is therefore certainly right and necessary that this third generation cooperation agreement should also be used in such a way that the council, the commission and parliament work together to monitor the way things are going. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy and to parliament on a regular basis, as a model, of the progress made in these fundamental questions of human coexistence, so as to achieve a process of progress in the appropriate way, as announced by the pakistani president. on the other hand, we must see that progress is being made, albeit insufficiently. but above all, we must see that in one of the greatest conflicts that western civilization has ever seen, pakistan is clearly on the side of those fighting terrorism, and that pakistan's position in this conflict, which involves iraq and afghanistan, is of tremendous importance for there to be cooperation and not confrontation. we know that mistakes have been made and miscalculations made many times in this union. we know that both the united states and pakistan have taken positions on the taliban that are better than not being taken today. but we have to see that after 9/11, without the help of our neighbours like afghanistan and other countries - and pakistan is one of them - we would not have been able to make progress. i therefore believe that it is necessary to ratify the agreement, to clear the way for the council to take a decision and for the commission to use its instruments accordingly, but always in the light of the positions expressed in the cushnahan resolution, so that there is a real development here, one that brings progress. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the future. i believe that this balance must be reviewed over the course of the months and years to come so that this decision, which we are hoping to take now in the spirit of moving forward, remains justified. i would like to expressly invite the council and the commission once again to use this as a joint project, as a model project in the sense of better relations, but also in the sense of the enforcement of human rights, and to cooperate with the european parliament in this matter.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! i think that what mr cushnahan said is very welcome, but it is not a question of whether we feel ourselves to be puppets - i do not think we are puppets - nor is it a question of what mr gahrton said about giving priority to commercial matters. it's about something else entirely. it is about what commissioner chris patten said this morning in connection with the middle east. it's about avoiding a clash of civilizations. it is about us europeans having an original role in the present and in the world, in promoting dialogue between cultures. pakistan is certainly playing a positive role in all the restrictions mentioned here. because it's about the question of who is our partner? the north koreans are not a partner, but pakistan is a partner in the fight against international terrorism, and the coalition against international terrorism is of course much larger than the coalition of states currently fighting in iraq against terrorism there and against the regime. the coalition against international terrorism includes germany, france, russia and others. pakistan is one of them. i therefore believe that the third generation agreement should be concluded.
council. mr president, i would like to thank the members for their comments. a stable and democratic pakistan would be a benign influence in the region, especially in the context of neighbouring afghanistan. there are benefits to what is proposed. i fully understand the passion that has been injected into this debate by mr cushnahan but i do not understand the choice of language. it is not a good strategy to portray those who disagree with you as selling out or as being puppets. perhaps when he has the opportunity he might like to reconsider those words. you can have principled positions and you can also have pragmatism; they do not rule each other out. nonetheless, i too compliment mr cushnahan on the work that he has done and i compliment also mr brok, as chairman, on his work and that of his committee. the conclusion of the agreement would help the european union to better engage with pakistan on the very issues that mr cushnahan touches upon, the issues on which we want to have changes. perhaps the last speaker is right when he suggests that human rights issues and issues relating to democracy should be completely excluded from trade agreements, perhaps not. a number of other contributors made points with which i can certainly agree. mr ford indicated clearly that there are concerns, and that he fully appreciates the nature of the concerns, but then made the point that even he, as a member who is close to the issue, can still support the position which has been taken by the foreign affairs committee and the position which will be voted on here with regard to the third generation agreement. mr schröder demonstrated again the logic of support for the third generation agreement in his contribution, as indeed did mr howitt who reflected the same view and again illustrated the dangers of taking the view that every issue is only either black or white. i take very much to heart the comments of chairman brok; i only hope that the council and the commission will maintain a sense of balance should the third generation agreement be ratified. i think elmar brok is correct in this particular viewpoint, which is the balanced one. it gives us a basis on which we can engage with the pakistanis. the presidency will not lose sight of the fact that there remain many serious negative issues in relation to pakistan and we will certainly seek to ensure that the union maintains pressure on the pakistani authorities during the period of ireland's presidency. equally, i have no doubt whatsoever that this will also be the position taken by successive presidencies. again i want to thank you, mr president, and i want to thank the house.
commission. mr president, there have been some extremely good and passionate speeches in this debate, which indicate the extent to which honourable members have thought carefully about the issues and have weighed the sort of arguments which mr cushnahan, mr howitt and others have put. i would say to mr cushnahan, who made a storming speech which reflects his own passionate commitment to democracy, that it came as a modest surprise to me to be described as a 'puppet of washington and london'. this will improve my street credibility in certain parts of the house, but anybody who was in the chamber this morning may find that a slightly outlandish description of your humble servant. all is fair in love and war and i recognise that the honourable member's speech was, as i said, a reflection of the passion that he feels about this subject. one direct question was asked of me and – admirably, because it is not always thus – the person who asked the question has stayed behind to hear the answer. i am not prepared – though i understand the importance of the issue – to agree to procedures for this agreement that we do not apply to any other, but i note that the agreement itself contains a suspension clause which both sides can invoke in the event of a breach of an essential element of the agreement. article 1 of the agreement on human rights and democratic principles is such an essential element. the commission is fully aware that this requires constant monitoring and this is, in fact, already being done. there is an eu working group on human rights in islamabad which produces regular reports. it is perfectly possible for parliament to debate those reports whenever it wishes. regular dialogue on human rights will be strengthened once the agreement is in place. if the suspension clause is invoked by one of the parties, a consultation mechanism is provided for under the agreement itself, though i sincerely hope there will be no need for this. again, i would like to thank parliament for what has been an interesting and passionate debate. the issues raised are of great importance. however, as i have said repeatedly – not least in the committee presided over by the honourable member – on balance, now is the time for parliament to vote in favour of this third-generation agreement with a country of considerable importance, both within the region and globally, and of considerable importance not least to our own geostrategic interests.
- thank you very much, commissioner patten. this meeting is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0270/2004) by mr de keyser, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on human rights in the world in 2003 and the european union's human rights policy.
commission. mr president, i would like to thank the presidency for allowing me to chip in before them and i would like to apologise to the honourable member and to the house for the fact that i have to slip away leaving the commission seat in the capable presence of my colleague, commissioner reding. i have to go to moscow for meetings with president putin and mr lavrov and others. i hope the house will excuse me of any discourtesy. i would like to start by thanking mrs de keyser for her report, which illustrates yet again how the engagement of the european parliament on human rights issues serves in my judgement as a critical stimulus to eu policy. the commission will, as usual, respond in writing to all the recommendations addressed to us in this report. i should like, for my part, to reflect on some of the important themes which have been revised. this subject of human rights and terrorism will unfortunately remain at the top of the international agenda for some time to come. my position on the fight against terrorism is clear. it has been set out several times. i referred to it again a couple of times last night and again this morning. i will reiterate it here. the fight against terrorism must be predicated on respect for human rights, and not the other way around. it is also my deep conviction that this alone is not enough. fostering human rights should be an integral part of the fight against terrorism. the commission will continue its efforts to promote and protect human rights in cooperation with our partners with all the means at our disposal: political dialogue, development cooperation and work with civil society in third countries. two human rights issues which have received much less attention are covered in this admirable report: the right to health – in this case reproductive health – and the pervasive discrimination which, despite their efforts, people with disabilities still face all over the world, and which is compounded in situations of conflict or poverty. the ability of all people, especially women, to achieve reproductive health is an integral part of their reproductive rights. the rapporteur is quite right in her account of the dire consequences if the right to reproductive health is denied and also in stating that reproductive health is not a 'women's issue' alone. however, it is important to note that the social consequences of reproductive ill health can be most severely felt by girls. for example, in many parts of africa, female adolescents are more likely than males to be stigmatised for sexually transmitted diseases and hiv/aids, and they are also more likely to suffer disproportionately from such problems as unsafe abortion and infertility. since 1994, the commission has become a major partner in addressing reproductive health needs in developing countries, in the framework of the goals agreed at the un international conference on population and development held in cairo ten years ago. between then and 2001, we committed over eur 655 million in external assistance that was explicitly targeted at family planning, reproductive health, safe motherhood, hiv/aids and population policy and management. furthermore, in july last year, the council adopted a regulation on aid for policies and actions on reproductive and sexual health and rights in developing countries. under this regulation, community financial support is given to specific operations targeting the poorest and most vulnerable populations in both rural and urban areas, designed to combat practices harmful to the sexual and reproductive health of women, adolescents and children, such as female genital mutilation, sexual violence, child marriages and early marriages. the european union has demonstrated its commitment to advancing respect for the human rights of people with disabilities through community legislation which has been introduced on the basis of article 13 of the ec treaty to combat discrimination in the field of employment, initiatives pursued as part of follow-up to last year's european year of disabled people and through its active engagement on a new un convention in this area. the commission has further undertaken a number of initiatives as part of our wider efforts to mainstream human rights in all aspects of our development cooperation, including the distribution of specific policy guidance on development and disability for the use of our delegations. but there is still some way to go. we think the best way of addressing this is through the provision of training for our staff and facilitating exchanges between representatives of disabled people's organisations and policy-makers, by raising awareness of disability issues in our dialogue with developing countries, and by including organisations for people with disabilities in the dialogue at country level. lastly, this excellent report highlights the anguish caused by one of the most pernicious causes of unnecessary disability in many countries, that is the use of anti-personnel landmines. here the commission is committed to pursuing a vigorous policy to eliminate the threat posed by anti-personnel landmines and increasing its efforts to reduce the humanitarian, social and economic costs to mine-affected countries. the strategy for mine action in the period 2002-2004 relates eu action to the goals set by the international community in the context of the ottawa convention. assistance for mine clearance and capacity building under the ec budget has been channelled to 33 countries and regions and in 2002 european union assistance as a whole reached eur 145 million. i have been privileged to see the work we are doing in this sector from sri lanka to the balkans. it is enormously important and it is valuable, as are the other points made in this report, that the honourable member has drawn this matter to the attention of the parliament and to european public opinion as a whole. we are extremely grateful for the report. i apologise for having to dash to moscow more rapidly that napoleon managed and i am grateful to the presidency for making my dash possible. (applause)
thank you, mr. patten. we wish you a safe trip to moscow.
council. mr president, i too welcome the opportunity to address the house in the context of this debate on human rights. it is an important debate. as i mentioned before, it is an issue of particular concern and interest to me. enhancing the dialogue between parliament and the council on human rights issues is very important. it is an important focus of the irish presidency. it is very important that we should be close on this issue. i want to thank ms de keyser for her very valuable report on human rights in the world in 2003 and the eu's policy on the matter. the report will be part of a very important discourse. we might disagree on some elements within it, but the reality is that this is a very good report. the protection and promotion of human rights should be a constant yardstick of our international actions. we adhere to the basic principle that human rights are universal, indivisible, interdependent and inter-related. as commissioner patten just said, they are so closely related to the troubles we have in a troubled world. i need not emphasise the close relationship between peace, security and stability on one hand and the respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and democracy on the other. the present debate in parliament is timely, including for the reason that it coincides with the current sixth session of the united nations commission on human rights, which is ongoing in geneva. i should like to say a few words about our relationship with the commission. the annual report of parliament rightly makes reference to the large degree of congruence between the european parliament's priorities as expressed in its resolutions and the eu action taken at sessions in the human rights commission. this is a concrete example of the implementation of the council and the european parliament working together more closely to achieve openness and transparency and the european union's human rights policy. indeed this is one of the recommendations of the general affairs and external relations council in their conclusions on 10 december 2002, concerning human rights and the democratisation of third countries. the european union has played a positive role at this year's commission in geneva. to date, on individual country situations the union has successfully tabled resolutions on human rights situations in belarus, turkmenistan and in north korea. a resolution on israeli settlements in the occupied arab territories was also adopted by the commission. the thematic resolutions tabled by the european union have also been successfully steered to adoption. the union's resolution on the elimination of all forms of religious intolerance, for example, has been adopted by consensus. the resolution on the rights of the child was adopted by mere unanimity following a call for a vote by the united states. i expect that the commission will also adopt the european union's resolution on the death penalty later this week. all of that is to be welcomed. however, a number of important united nations-eu initiatives have fallen. this is due, in significant part, to the composition of the united nations human rights commission. it also reflects the unwillingness of some regional groups to accept any condemnation of their members. this has always struck me as one of the fatal flaws within the un system. an initiative from the eu on chechnya was defeated and our resolution on zimbabwe fell to a 'no action' motion. it is noteworthy that the number of votes that were cast against the draft resolution on chechnya was, this year, significantly higher than those recorded on the same issue last year. we will have to analyse this outcome and learn why this has happened. we will also need to address the number of critical, country-specific resolutions that we table at the commission. not least, we need to decide on whether our priority is to make union declarations so that the world knows where we stand, or to see our texts in fact adopted by a majority of members of the commission. if i could lapse into less diplomatic language, it may be time that the european union learned to 'box a little more cleverly' in its dealings on the human rights commission. if we want to be effective, as opposed to simply making declarations, we have to be strategic in our approach. i want to deal with three priority areas that are mentioned in the report. in her report, ms de keyser focuses on three main themes: first, trends in the international war on terrorism; second, the impact of the international situation on reproductive health; and third, the rights of disabled people, particularly in conflict situations or in extremely poor or developing countries. in regard to disability, i was struck when reading the report by the reference to the fact that three-quarters of disabled people live in developing countries. the incidence and intensity of disability in the developing world is aggravated by poverty and, as commissioner patten has said, by conflict. it is a horrific fact that a huge amount of mutilation and disability flows from the use of landmines produced in so-called developed, civilised nations and then exported to the third world. in recognition of the rights of persons with a disability, during the irish presidency we will further progress work within the union and at the un-level to lead to an elaboration of a un convention on the human rights of persons with disabilities. in the context of reproductive health, the annual report highlights the worrying increase in the prevalence of hiv/aids in eastern europe and in central asia, and the relationship between poverty and reproductive health issues. the irish presidency has recognised the importance of addressing the aids issue and it is way beyond the capacity of any one government to solve. in february the presidency hosted a major conference in dublin on the problem of the hiv/aids epidemic in the region under the title 'breaking the barriers: the fight against hiv/aids in europe and central asia'. on reproductive health in general, i want to state that the european union will unstintingly work to ensure that the rights to reproductive health care and services accepted in all basic documents of the major un conferences would be implemented. the european union and its member states are committed to the specific reproductive health goal that was agreed at the cairo international conference. that is to make primary health care – reproductive health care – accessible to all individuals of appropriate age as soon as possible and no later than 2015. this commitment is demonstrated by the regulation, adopted by the european council in july 2003, on aid for policies and actions on reproductive health. as for terrorism, mrs de keyser is quite right to emphasise that the danger of emotional reactions, such as fear, anger and a desire for vengeance, can lead to calls for repressive measures in the fight against this phenomenon. this is a common theme that has run through so many of the debates in this house: we all are interested in a common fight against terrorism but we must also make sure that the fight is balanced with respect for human rights for democratic principles and for the rule of law. in the period since september 2001, the fight against terrorism has become a global priority. at the same time, that fight has posed new challenges for the promotion and protection of human rights. acts of terrorism can never be justified by any cause or ideology, and must unreservedly be condemned. the indiscriminate slaughter of unsuspecting human beings, which is the hallmark of terrorism, constitutes first and foremost a flagrant denial of the most fundamental right of all: the right to life. all states have a duty to protect their citizens from terrorist attack and to combat terrorism in all its forms. yet, in order to receive the widest possible support and to be successful in the long term, the fight against terrorism must be conducted in full respect of human rights and in full respect of fundamental freedoms. fostering human rights should indeed become an integral part of any fight against terrorism. we must also address the causes of terrorism. to seek to understand the causes of terrorism should not be understood as being in any way soft on terrorism or on the terrorists. on the contrary, it is an essential step in the elimination of terrorism. as the president of the european council, mr ahern stated here in parliament last month that any good physician will tell us that in treating a disease it is first necessary to tackle its causes as well as its symptoms. all too often the simplistic response to terrorism is equivalent to addressing only the symptoms, not the disease. in the context of combating terrorism, mrs de keyser also rightly notes the need not to use this objective as an excuse to suppress the freedom of the press and specifically not as a justification for attacks on individuals or individual journalists. the european union has traditionally attached great importance to the work performed by all human rights defenders, including those in the media. human rights defenders have become increasingly effective in ensuring greater protection to victims of human rights violations. however, this progress has frequently been achieved at a high price and at high individual cost. the defenders themselves have increasingly become the targets of attacks and their rights have been violated in too many countries. while the european union has attached importance to the protection of human rights defenders this has been largely done on an ad hoc basis to date. the irish presidency is working to produce specific policy guidelines in order to strengthen the european union’s support for human rights defenders. these guidelines will shortly be brought before the council of ministers. let me again congratulate the rapporteur on her report. on behalf of the council, the presidency welcomes this collaboration with parliament in further advancing our common cause of democracy and human rights. the european union is founded on respect for human rights, and this is true both of the internal affairs policy within the union and it is equally true of our policy in foreign affairs.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the protection of human rights worldwide has traditionally been a central theme of the european parliament and is actually dealt with in political consensus. the international conventions on the protection of human rights are the standard to be used. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper manner. this year's report, however, unlike all previous reports in this election period, is not under a good star. the main criticism we have to make is that the rapporteur has overloaded this annual report on human rights with an unacceptable ideological overload. she has put her dead horses, not to say obsessions, at the centre of the report. that is why a general and uncontroversial part was missing at the beginning, and it was only by means of 70 amendments that it was introduced into the text. i would like to make it clear once again that we must deal with the big issues, namely: where do we want democracy, free elections, freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of religion and conscience, the elimination of legal and factual discrimination against women, the protection of physical integrity, etc.? where do we criticize the council when it only gives lip service to human rights, especially in relation to large countries? the report naturally includes a reference to the rights of the disabled, for example. of course, their rights as equal citizens must be upheld and degrading treatment in public institutions must be denounced. the human right to life includes the right to access health care facilities within the limits of national possibilities. but stop trying to make a wishy-washy, detailed social and health policy demand for a human rights catalogue and immortalize it in this report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the child are respected. but there is no constitution, no international european convention or any other that declares these detailed requirements, which you have set out here, to be a human right that can be challenged. otherwise the mayor of rabat or lagos would be a human rights violator, because he does not comply with your demands here and does not install disabled doors on the city bus. he may be a bad mayor for not doing that, but he's not a human rights violator. that shows how wrong your approach is. there is no human right to free condom distribution. but in the matter itself, of course, we must reach the goal. a man like thabo mbeki, the president of south africa, is not a human rights violator because he has a wrong view of the fight against aids. we have here the excellent report by mr mantovani on the situation of the disabled. that includes everything you're telling us here. but then you could only have tabled amendments and the report would not have been named after you. i can tell you that the mantovani report is much better. that's why we agree to this and not yours. as for your other sticking point, reproductive health, it belongs in the committee on development and cooperation or in the junker report on cairo + 10 - we have already had it there - but not in the category of human rights that are enshrined and can be sued. who are you gonna sue? we're often not that far apart on the subject. i'm against this mexico city policy, too. i'm also the first to expect catholic missions to distribute condoms rather than demonize them. but if you then demand that we as the eu should compensate for the loss of us funds, then i think others will also come up with the idea of saving money, because the eu will then take over. i am afraid that your contribution does not contribute to the long-standing consensus in this house on human rights.
- dear mr. stockton, against all the rules, i was about to fall into a state of clapping myself. i thank you very much for this very personal farewell to parliament. perhaps you'll come back at some point after all.
commission. - mr president, we shall start with what i consider to be the soul of europe, the most positive thing in europe, which shows citizens that they exist and gives them a platform to express themselves in their diversity. i believe that the european cities of culture, now called european capitals of culture, have, in this sense, over the years, acquired a major importance in the european cultural landscape. they are a common cultural space. they highlight our diversity. the formula has already evolved over time: the action was launched in 1985 on the initiative of melina mercouri and the designation of cities was initially made in the framework of an intergovernmental process. we have come a long way since then: the event became a community action with the 1999 decision. this process is evolving. this one's not finished. what we're going to look at and decide today is going to be a step. why? because we are on the eve of a historic event that will change the community's fortunes. i am of course talking about enlargement, which had to be taken into account in the case of the european capitals of culture. that is why the commission's proposal which we are debating today is so important. the purpose of this proposal is to allow the rapid integration of the new member states into the european capital of culture initiative. this does not mean that we should not think quickly about other changes that may be necessary. we all agree that there is a need for major improvements to the present decision. we're working on it. a study is under way on the european capitals for the years 1995 to 2004. its results, which will be known in the second half of 2004, will support our thinking and then, i suppose, our action to develop new rules. but now we cannot keep the new member states waiting any longer: they must participate in this much-loved action like the others. they should therefore be received in a proper manner. they have already made a great deal of effort to gain entry into the union of today. they cannot be excluded from the european capital of culture event. the integration of new members is therefore a priority and must be done very quickly. this is why the commission wishes to dissociate the integration phase of the new member states from the debate on the necessary overhaul of the procedure. the commission therefore proposes at this stage simply to add the new member states to the list established by the decision as from 2009, alongside the existing member states already designated in chronological order. this order was agreed by common accord between the council and parliament in 1999 and it is on this basis that cities are now preparing for the years ahead. from 2009 onwards, two capitals would be designated each year: one for the current member states and the other for the new ones. i fully understand parliament's concern to see the procedure improved. however, this is the only way to quickly put the new member states on the same level as the current member states with regard to the european capitals of culture event. let us be aware that if we skip this step and start the process of re-design right away, the new member states will only be able to participate in the action, at best, from 2010 or 2011 or 2012 perhaps, because four years are needed to prepare the event and the designations for 2008 will already take place this year. the new parliament will also have to decide on the revision of the procedure, since it will concern the future of 25 member states. what is our position on the amendments proposed by the european parliament? the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport of the european parliament maintained the purpose of the commission's proposal. however, it wanted each state concerned to submit at least two city applications from 2009 onwards, i.e. two per year. this is a substantial change in the designation procedure and therefore constitutes a change in the commission's proposal. that is why i cannot accept such an amendment in the context of a two-stage review. this amendment is part of the second phase, when we will have the necessary and concrete data to carry out the revision of this decision, that is to say later. the commission therefore feels obliged to reject amendment no 2 by the committee and, therefore, amendments nos 3, 4 and 5 which follow from it. on the other hand, amendment no 1 concerning the adjustment of the budget, due to the fact that there would be at least two capitals per year, can be accepted. in fact, the doubling of the number of cities should be considered in the context of the possible programme proposal that will take over from culture 2000 from 2007. the financing is provided under this programme and not under the 1999 decision. the commission cannot accept amendments nos 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 tabled on behalf of the green group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that, ladies and gentlemen, is what i think is a common sense position today. i know it wasn't easy to find her, because we all want something better; your commissioner too. but in politics, you have to be realistic, and if you want to get ahead, sometimes you have to take small steps to get there.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would have applauded you, mr rocard, but unfortunately not everything i say is true. that's why i couldn't give you the applause i wanted to give you. i can't put my head through a wall. i have to get in touch with reality. the cultural capital we are talking about today is a kind of beacon in the little cultural politics that we are allowed. so i'm glad we're going to continue this. it's an old idea. it's from a greek colleague, and i think we're proud to have it. i also agree with mr rocard's demand that there should be at least two cities to choose from. i think that we have already brought this up and that it can be done now, madam commissioner. the european diversity should also be much more visible in this cultural capital than it has been in the past. i therefore believe that these amendments do not in any way contradict what you are trying to do, madam commissioner. so please consider if you can't bring this in. the second is that i must say again that we all regret the decision of the council of ministers, and i especially, because i was already terribly upset at the shortsighted and nationally oriented decision of the council of ministers in 1999. he knew as well as we did that there would be an enlargement of the european union, and he didn't give a damn about it. it has only named western european cities until 2019. shame on the council of ministers, not on us! we were prisoners of that decision then. but it happened, and in our country we say: pacta sunt servanda! so we can't really change anything about the fact that by 2019 the countries that are proposed will also have the right to propose. so i would like to say for the german audience that germany is of course allowed to propose a city in 2010. but we in the epp group also support the commissioner's proposal for two cultural capitals, precisely because the 10 new countries are not to blame for the insolence of the old 15. the commissioner must now cure this. she's healing it by giving two cities a chance to show themselves. and i also think that it's not so bad if we do that, if for example in 2010 we have a city from germany and a city from hungary. i don't think it's that bad. there are wonderful similarities and also fruitful rivalries. i must say one more thing: if we are 25 countries today, there will be more by 2019, at least romania, bulgaria and croatia, not to mention the others. if we can only designate one capital of culture, that means that a country only gets to be the capital once in a generation. so we cannot let our citizens have that! that is why my group and i supported the commissioner's proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would have liked to have had an open debate here on how to improve the concept of the european capital of culture. instead, we have to deal with, you might say, some sort of emergency solution or repair. it has been said quite rightly that the council has decided, in its utter selfishness, to use all the current member states until 2019 on its own, knowing full well that we will be dealing with unification, with enlargement. now that this enlargement is imminent and some have noticed that it cannot be right to console these countries for 2020 and beyond, the commission has now found this tandem solution. it is a solution, but it leaves an unpleasant aftertaste, commissioner. i think you know that, too. but i would like to acknowledge that you have tried to make the best of it, and it is extremely regrettable that even here in this parliament, because there are two hearts beating in our chest, opinions diverging and the proposals made by michel rocard in his report on the qualitative improvement of the selection procedure, cannot be discussed without reference to the question of what actually happens if a fundamental change is made here. i am a german member of parliament. 17 cities in germany are vying for the title of european capital of culture for 2010. now, they say, nobody wants to shake. but what legal certainty do these cities have if we do not reach a conclusion? these cities have applied and are in the process of holding a competition which i believe can be a game-changer. i can only really recommend in future that we hold a competition within the countries, which leads to a decision being taken there in terms of quality, and then bring this to the european level, where i would also like to see a competition in a selection procedure. i hope that the next parliament will be able to make a fundamental change of heart on this matter.
the commission has already done so. we have now heard that the council - we are in agreement - took the wrong decision at the time, prematurely. i think that the commission should now do everything in its power to make the best of this situation, in the interests of the countries concerned and, above all, of european culture. i would have liked the clear, purist solution of our chairman theoretically, but i think that the situation should be reversed. now we should see this solution, which had to be found, not as a last resort but as a positive opportunity to represent the cultural diversity of europe, that we do not just have one cultural capital, but that in this great europe, which for the first time will include the west and the east, we will have two capitals - why not? - as a symbol of cultural diversity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the important thing is that the concept and vision that was the starting point for the european capital of culture is also more strongly reflected. it is not just a question of the cities representing themselves in their wonderful history, their history and their present, but of their european history and present as it has developed in this city. in this sense, i see the resolution as we are now drafting it, if we go back to its origins, as a great opportunity for europe's cultural diversity.
commission. - mr president, we are moving from culture to education, vocational training, skills and qualifications, and the two are linked in my mind. on 17 december 2003, the commission adopted a proposal to streamline the european situation in terms of transparency of qualifications and competences. as you will have seen, this is a step forward in the construction of the europe of education and training. at the same time, it is a major tool for citizens and their mobility. we wanted to give practical help to all those who want to use their qualifications in another member state and thus give themselves an extra chance of finding a job. this initiative was explicitly requested by the council in its resolution of 19 december 2002. it was also welcomed by the council and parliament. the commission proposal was improved in several respects, but no substantive objections were raised. and i welcome the consensus on the aim and content of our proposal. what is this proposal? the proposal integrates five existing documents, covering qualifications and skills in a lifelong learning perspective, into a coordinated portfolio, called europass: the european curriculum vitae, which covers personal skills; the language portfolio, multilingualism, which we have been advocating so much for the past five years; europass-mobility, which replaces and extends the current europass-training; the diploma supplement, which covers higher education qualifications; and its equivalent for vocational training, the certificate supplement. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the problem of the environment. europass is an open framework and other documents may be added in the future. i think, for example, and here i join our youth policy, of the voluntary actions carried out by citizens during their youth and adult life, of all the actions of engagement in social life, in civic life, which will have to be taken into consideration, because they are part of the personality of a human being. although we share the same approach, a number of amendments were voted on. the commission accepts them, with exceptions. amendment no 7 is not acceptable in its present form. it gives the europass national centres the additional task of making a mobility guide available to all citizens. but such a task is not their primary responsibility. following the amendments proposed by the council, a modification of this amendment has been suggested. it provides for the national europass centres to fulfil this task 'where appropriate'. with such an addition, the amendment would become acceptable. amendment no 12 is also unacceptable in its present form. on the one hand, the europass-mobility must be completed by the sending and the receiving organisations, not by either. on the other hand, the third language into which this europass-mobility can be translated does not necessarily have to be a widely used language. by establishing the dual responsibility of sending and receiving organisations, and not limiting themselves to the third language or only to widely used languages, this amendment, as amended, would become acceptable. amendment no 5, which emphasises the role of the social partners in the development of future sectoral initiatives, is acceptable in principle to the commission. following the council's proposed changes, an amendment was proposed, notably to delete the specification 'sectoral'. this amendment is also acceptable. the same applies to amendment no 8, which can be amended in the same way. as you can see, mr president, nothing is insurmountable. the main point is that this proposal aims to implement a service to citizens to help them to better use their skills. and we're back to that. i therefore welcome the efforts of parliament and the council to achieve rapid adoption, which would make this tool available to citizens at the beginning of 2005. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with this europass we have the political reality that the citizens expect from us. i think it's a good project and i thank you for your cooperation.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mobility is a big word in european politics. in the face of globalisation, mobility is also becoming more important. but in reality, we have had to and unfortunately have to find again and again that europe's citizens are not yet as mobile as we would like them to be. one of the main reasons for the lack of mobility is the lack of transparency of qualifications and competences. the lack of transparency is, as we all know, the greatest obstacle to educational and vocational mobility and a major obstacle to the flexibility of labour markets in europe. the european commission has now put forward the long-awaited and much-desired proposal for a single framework to promote the transparency of qualifications and competences europass . this commission proposal is an extremely good one, because it makes it easier for citizens to have access to mobility instruments. the commissioner has already said that the new europass portfolio will bring together five mobility instruments which already exist, namely the european cv, the diploma supplement, the current europass for vocational training and certificates and, very importantly, the european language portfolio. as i mentioned, these instruments already exist. but they have not yet been fully visible to the public. it is therefore very important that not only the existing instruments but also the networks be coordinated and rationalised. a coordinated portfolio of documents has a stronger communication effect than a loose collection of separate documents. however, it is important that it is an open portfolio. i have two reasons for this. first, the citizen can choose the documents that are relevant to him. no one is obliged to have all five documents drawn up. secondly, this open system allows for the inclusion of additional documents in the portfolio. i have proposed in the report that a document certifying computer skills should be included in this portfolio. i would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone, the presidency of the council and the commission, for their cooperation, which has also ensured that this proposal can quickly pass through all the bureaucratic mills. i think we all have an interest in seeing this proposal implemented as quickly as possible and that europass is made available to citizens as soon as possible.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on employment and social affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is very gratifying that in the penultimate week of this parliamentary term we are about to adopt such a fine, interesting, new european project, a project which i believed could be adopted without conflict and without the council's reservations. i must now put that confidence in perspective a little more, after hearing, commissioner, that you disagree with several amendments, including mine. perhaps the administration can talk to me again tonight about some of these things so that tomorrow we can actually adopt something that goes further than what we have been given at the beginning. the committee on employment and social affairs, for which i wrote this opinion, has not only taken this project seriously and welcomed it, but we have also integrated it into our work. we know that mobility and lifelong learning are important building blocks for professional success today, and that the prerequisites have often been lacking in business and politics. this is going to change now. for these reasons, we have made some proposals and additions which we consider important, such as the inclusion of third country nationals - we believe this is a symbol of fairness - the inclusion of the social partners to take account of the know-how of the social partners, the inclusion of the subject of social inclusion and, last but not least, more and better information for citizens, learners and social partners, especially smes. the whole project will only be useful, it will only succeed, if it is known, if it is accepted by young people, by workers, but also by industry and society. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. then, i think, we'll get this kid on the right track, too.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are in the midst of the primary elections and i am grateful, as mrs weiler is, that at the end of this election period we have achieved something for many young people, in fact for all young people. because europass is something that really affects all young people, including those who go to university. i think we have been looking for this for a long time and i am glad that the commissioner is still able to get it started at the end of her current term. we would of course have liked to have adopted it during this period, but if it is not possible, it is not possible, so we will do it in september or october, and that will be enough. we should not overload the europass and expect everything from it. but we should at least expect him to implement what we have been saying in many of our sunday speeches, namely transparency and mobility. the daily lives of young people and workers are taking place here, and they are often affected by european legislation, but they cannot develop as we would like. this means that clear decisions must be taken on the european cv. we must be very clear about the skills of the individual. it must be possible to record the individual's language skills in a verified form. we should also, as you suggested, take into account youth volunteering, because it is a skill that young people have acquired in their lives and should be more appreciated than ever, including by employers. i believe that there are many ways of helping young people in particular to find their way in this vast labour market and to be found on the basis of their qualifications. because in many cases it is impossible to estimate what a person can do today, because what is in his testimonies cannot be translated at all and cannot actually be compared. i believe that this europass will help us to understand the training periods, the teaching and the vocational skills, and i believe that this is what we need, what young people need, to really experience this europe for themselves. i would like to say that the commission is very pleased that the council has taken the initiative in this matter and that it is very pleased that the council has taken the initiative in this matter.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when you announced yesterday that there was a coalition of british tories and greek communists who had tabled a motion of censure against the commission, i was reminded of the saying of karl marx that if history repeats itself, it will be played first as tragedy and then as farce. we socialists, when the santer commission was overthrown five years ago, voluntarily let ourselves be pushed against the wall by a majority, partly defending what was indefensible. we learned from it. i myself was then part of the minority that voted for the motion of censure. but i am all the more convinced today, on behalf of my group, of speaking out against the farce of a vote of no confidence which serves only to serve newspapers where it is not known whether the illiterate are the ones who buy them or the ones who write them. (laughter) so to be clear, this assessment is transnational, it applies to different countries and not just one country. it is legitimate, even in this parliament, to be against european integration and therefore against community institutions. the question is whether the systematic discrediting of the eu institutions can be allowed to become a means of political debate. that is not a question to be put to the tories or the gue, because they will do it and have done it. the question is whether those in this house who are in favour of political integration will allow these people to go unopposed. i'm all for resistance. we also oppose the misuse of budgetary control for transparent political purposes. even you, chris, have repeatedly stated in the committee on budgetary control that the reasons which led to the fall of the santer commission are not present in this case, despite all the criticisms of the present commission. unlike the santer commission, the present commission, despite all its mistakes, has not tried to systematically withhold information from parliament. that is a crucial point. the two socialists herbert bösch and paulo casaca were the main participants in the elaboration of eurostat. using the eurostat case as an electoral tool is the best way to choke off the reform process that has been initiated, and we do not want to do that. the bizarre nature of this circus act is illustrated by two points which must be made public once again in this house. the signatories of the motion of censure include a member of parliament who personally pleaded with me months ago to ensure that the eurostat story is buried. literal explanation: the closer the elections get, the crazier the mps get here. he's signed this by now. when we met this morning - and i am addressing mr bonde - in a round table to negotiate the joint resolution on eurostat, you asked delicately whether it would be possible to make it superfluous to insert a few sharp paragraphs on political responsibility in the eurostat resolution, since you did not know whether the motion of censure was going so well. dear mr. bonde, we have no intention of getting you out of this quagmire you've gotten yourself into. the majority of this parliament will not help you to do that, you will have to do it yourselves. you are welcome to ask that in may, when the new commissioners come in, they be sent home in groups of ten, and you are welcome to appear before the european public as fools who have misused this instrument of the motion of censure for mere partisan political purposes.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the second railway package we wanted to give a decisive impetus to the construction of an integrated, competitive and safe european railway area. we are now at the end of more than two years of intensive work and i think the result is very good. in this connection, i would like to emphasize the essential contribution of the european parliament to the four texts which make up this second railway package. i would like to thank in particular the four rapporteurs, mrs ainardi, mr jarzembowski, mr sterckx and mr savary, for the important work they have done, and i would also like to thank their colleagues in the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, who have followed this dossier closely. i would also like to thank the parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, and in particular its chairman, mrs cederschiöld, who succeeded in reaching a compromise with the council at the final conciliation meeting on 16 march, which we consider to be very balanced. this second package of measures opens up new prospects for the development of rail transport in the enlarged european union and i therefore hope that your parliament will approve the results of the conciliation and thus give the final green light to the implementation of these texts. i can assure you that the commission will do everything in its power to set up the european railway agency as soon as possible. let me give you some perspective on future work in the railway sector. in examining these texts of the second railway package, parliament wanted to stress the importance it attached to the question of opening up the passenger transport market. the commission itself indicated in the white paper of september 2001 that proposals would be made. on 7 march, the commission therefore adopted a series of proposals on the opening of the market for international rail passenger services from 2010 onwards, and also on passenger rights. these texts are accompanied by a major proposal for a directive on the certification of train drivers and on-board staff and a proposal for a regulation on quality contractual clauses for rail freight. it will of course be up to the new parliament elected in june to examine these new proposals.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. considering that it's a little late and there's no one in the audience except a well-known railway company representative, i'll be brief. i think parliament can be proud that with the results of the four conciliation procedures on the second railway package we have overcome the hesitation of the council and created a new, practical european dimension for the development of railway undertakings in the union. the amendment to directive 91/440/eec will now give all railway undertakings non-discriminatory access to the rail networks of all member states for cross-border freight services from 1 january 2006 and - this is parliament's achievement - for national freight services from 1 january 2007. at the same time, the commission, parliament and council announced that the network would be open to crossborder passenger traffic by 2010. commissioner, we are grateful to you for the fact that the commission has presented the third railway package. i am not sure that the question of quality assurance for freight services - i think it should be left to the market - and the question of compensation for delays, etc. in rail transport - air transport is a little different from rail transport - is necessary. but we'll do that in the next round. in any case, we are in favour of opening up passenger transport, and we agree, madam commissioner, that we need a european driving licence to have a european market for railway workers in the labour market. but let me continue by saying that with the new directive on railway safety in the community we will develop european safety standards for the first time for the railway sector, that we will overcome small states in safety matters and actually find rules for private and public railway companies at a uniform high level of safety throughout the union. i believe that this is a major step towards a european single market. i think that the amendment tabled by mrs ainardi on interoperability is equally important, because we will be able to coordinate and accelerate work on technical specifications, on rolling stock and other parts of the railway system more quickly and better. finally, i also believe that with the regulation establishing the european railway agency we have created an important body which will be committed to both european safety standards and the speedier development of technical specifications for interoperability. i think that is the last thing i want to say. i believe that the conciliation procedure has created the right conditions, i.e. the favourable framework conditions, for a european single market to exist in the railway sector as well, and that having created the framework conditions, it is now up to the railway companies - whether public or private, we are neutral - to take advantage of the new opportunities on the market with a high level of safety and finally achieve our common objective of reviving rail transport in the european union and moving as much freight as possible from the road to the railway, so that we can act in an environmentally and economically sound manner. we have thus taken a major step towards a sensible modal split between the modes of transport in the future and a genuine new opportunity for railway companies in the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the court's decision in the case of leyla zana clearly shows that turkey is not yet ready for negotiations on eu accession. unimpressed by the formal reforms in turkey, the court is acting as in the old days. the european parliament has been a party to the negotiations, and i am sure that the european parliament will be a party to the negotiations. the trial would have allowed turkey to demonstrate that the judicial reforms are more than just paper. finally, it was not a matter of trifles, but of a woman whose fate has become a symbol of the failure of turkish politics and justice, and whose trial was a test of the seriousness of the reform. but even this and the international attention could not persuade the court to conduct a trial under the rule of law. i therefore ask you, if even the leyla zana case does not bring about a change in the turkish legal system, how can the reform be implemented at all? i would like to make it clear that i am in principle in favour of turkey joining the eu if it meets the conditions. turkey has known for years that it must change dramatically in order to have a prospect of accession. but yesterday's verdict shows that she still doesn't want to. the eu must therefore finally stop talking about the imminent opening of accession negotiations. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. no, it remains that the criteria for eu membership are fixed and must be maintained. as long as turkey ignores them, there can be no accession negotiations.
the rapporteur. the commission is not this european parliament has always called for economic, employment, social and financial policies to be coordinated and also integrated in order to achieve coherence in the european union's growth, employment and social strategy. we think it is right, and this is what has happened, that we look at these broad lines of economic policy not just over a year, but over a longer period. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. we see very clearly that the european economy is still weakening, we see very clearly that the recovery in the euro area, where it has taken place or where it has had a positive impact on the economy, is mainly due to the sharp increase in export growth, while domestic demand has remained negative due to low private consumption, and this has been the case for several quarters. we must be concerned about this, and we want to look at these basic lines of economic policy and reformulate them in such a way that economic growth can be stimulated and the economic, social and environmental sustainability of this growth can also be strengthened. this will only be possible if all member states comply with the agreement. i repeat the criticism of the european parliament that many member states are not living up to the promises made in the lisbon strategy, which links and concentrates all measures to create genuinely sustainable growth and also to strengthen competitiveness. i therefore believe that the main thrust must be even more strongly than before on stimulating economic growth through investment and job creation and thus increasing productivity. the growth initiative is certainly welcome in this context. in this respect, the guidelines should also clearly and concretely express its focus on human resources, research and development and innovation, but also on industrial policy with a particular focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, renewable energy and environmentally friendly technologies. the environmental technology action plan must be implemented, but we must not forget about investment in social infrastructure either, because we will not achieve productivity growth unless we increase the balance between work and family life in the european union and, therefore, the employment rate of women. i think this is a very important measure. it cannot be stressed enough that many member states still have a long way to go. the financing of growth-enhancing investments is also inadequate and we should also include in the broad lines of economic policy measures which include the coordination of the fight against unfair tax competition and the coordination of the fight against tax evasion. in addition, the spending framework in the current quick start programme and the growth initiative is not enough either, because all the economic research institutes are of course right to say that unless investment is at least 1% of gdp, it will not have the desired effect, in particular to have a positive impact on the mass unemployment of over 14 million unemployed in the european union. social and regional cohesion and real convergence must remain at the heart of the economic policy guidelines, but it should be made clearer which policy mix can actually lead to success, because we need strong synergies between the necessary structural reforms on the one hand and investment and a macroeconomic policy geared to stability and growth on the other. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. transparency and participatory implementation of the lisbon strategy are not only lofty goals, but are also very promising approaches to implementing the lisbon strategy through reform partnerships. i believe that these partnerships for change need to address economic, social and environmental issues in a comprehensive way if we are to really get to a better and more political expression of the lisbon strategy. i am in favour of the spirit of the lisbon strategy. i believe that this is the most comprehensive strategy for dealing with the problems in the european union, but we also need to update these guidelines every year when economic developments demand it, and we see that this is becoming increasingly necessary. the reform of the structural funds must also take account of the fact that a link between the structural funds and their application with the broad lines of economic policy is an important concern. the whole thing must also be formulated in such a way that it actually forces all the partners to make the link in the interests of sustainable growth, full employment and social cohesion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to make two statements. we spent a long time yesterday on the boogerd-quaak report on the media and there are some controversial positions. i would like to say that we do not consider the president's decision to reject the amendments to be legally justified and therefore oppose this decision of the president. we shall also reserve the right to examine whether the rights of members of parliament can be overridden in this way, by wiping out all the amendments. because we consider this a very serious matter, our group will not be taking part in the vote on the boogerd-quaak report today on the media, in order to express our protest that we cannot accept this decision. i would like to raise a second point, and that concerns remarks made by mr barón crespo yesterday in the house. first of all, it is necessary to clarify the question of where mr barón crespo is getting his claim that documents in the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs have disappeared. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the matter. but i would ask mr barón crespo to withdraw his remarks made yesterday in the plenary, which unfortunately are not in the minutes of this house. i heard yesterday the remarks of mr barón crespo, which he addressed to mr antonio tajani, and on the tape, the official tape of the european parliament, these remarks are recorded, but they are not in the minutes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in my language, that means, "shut up, you scoundrel!" i think it is unworthy for a member of the european parliament to label a member of the european parliament in this way and i ask enrique barón crespo to withdraw it. there was another statement and i regret it. i never thought i'd be here to say something like this. but, ladies and gentlemen, there is something that unites us in all our quarrels, and that is respect for each other. that is what our group stands for and no one should be called that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i'll say it in spanish. i'm sorry, i don't speak spanish, and i'm sorry if i'm not saying it right: that means, in my language, that i would advise the wild boars that are running around here to stay very quiet. ladies and gentlemen, that is not the language that should be used in this european parliament, and i would ask mr baron crespo to correct what he said yesterday. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have a similar illogic here, and i therefore ask that the following wording be deleted, as in paragraph 13. i read it: 'including the completion of the transatlantic market'. i now ask that the following be deleted: 'aimed at achieving the free movement of goods, capital, services and persons'. i would also like to ask my colleague, mr elmar brok, for his agreement.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make one more suggestion which i believe will solve this problem much better. we have paragraph 27a in motion 22 by mrs elles, which deals with the same point and which takes up what mrs mann is saying here. i would suggest that you drop paragraph 15 altogether and instead take paragraph 27a from the elles motion. then we've solved the problem completely and could get a broad majority to do so.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this house has - it has been said - a long tradition of dealing with this subject. i remember that before 1999 it was my colleague maren günther who was the main campaigner in this area. we have also achieved a number of successes. we're way ahead of you. we are seeing that today the majority of member states, or almost all of them - there are only a few pending member states - have already ratified the protocol, so that the claims made a few years ago that it was impossible to join for one reason or another have now proved to be mere rumours. this shows that it is a question of political will. i can therefore only appeal to our estonian, latvian, finnish and polish friends to ensure that they too join as soon as possible. the same is true of an important ally, the united states of america. we are partners in the fight against terrorism, but anti-personnel mines are not a means of fighting terrorism. they are more of an instrument of terrorism themselves. that is why we must do everything we can to stop production and trade, but also do more to support mine clearance. it has rightly been said that it is the economically poorest areas that are hit the hardest. we heard a few days ago from the commission - and i fully support this - that we want to hold accession negotiations with croatia. croatia suffers from the fact that some of its most prosperous regions, namely the region between vukova and the neighbouring ilok, the wonderful vineyards there, the fields, are still heavily mined and people cannot return there. the situation is even worse in bosnia-herzegovina, in kosovo, in the middle of europe. the same applies, of course, to the areas in which we are particularly active, to africa, which we have already discussed today - and i agree with all my colleagues - where it is really the worst - but also to afghanistan. what are we not doing to help afghanistan? but the aid is concentrated in a few cities, because of political miscalculation on our part, but also because large parts of the country are still so contaminated by mines that reconstruction is hardly going on there, but that is not the focus of the world public. i therefore welcome the fact that our resolution mentions the need to pay greater attention to the removal of mines, to mine clearance worldwide. but it would be absurd if we were to spend huge sums - and we must spend them - to support anti-mine programmes, while at the same time countries like our partners or even some future member states were producing new mines which would then be laid. this is beyond the comprehension of any reasonable person. for this reason, a ban is absolutely essential. it must include all the member states of the european union, and we must put all our foreign policy and economic weight into it, and i would like to support you strongly, commissioner, that it is not just europe that is issuing a clear ban here, but that this includes all the countries of the world, including the 44 that are still at odds today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i must say that what we have just heard from mr alyssandrakis is a ghostly reminder of a past which we will finally overcome in a few days' time by welcoming the countries of central and eastern europe into the european union. this house has for decades stood for the freedom, human rights and self-determination of the peoples of central and eastern europe. it has helped to sweep away communism, communist dictatorship, the ghost of stalin, to bring down the iron curtain and to bring about a free europe, and it is almost ghostly that a relic of this inhuman ideology, like mr alyssandrakis, should stand up here and defend the dictatorship in cuba. my dear friends, i must make it very clear that we are not against the cuban people, as you are implying here. quite the opposite! we're defending the cuban people. those who defended the communist dictatorships before 1989 must be ashamed today if their speeches are taken out of the minutes. so one day you will have to be ashamed of what you have said here today about cuba, one of the last brutal and repressive communist dictatorships in the world. we are not without criticism of the united states, and i am not, god knows, one of those who advocate all aspects of a blockade policy. i am quite critical of that. but that we must support with all our might the movement for democracy, the rule of law and freedom in cuba against the oppressors, represented by the old communist fidel castro, who is as unforgiving and eternally yesterday as you are, mr alyssandrakis, is, i must say, our self-evident duty as democrats.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we must be very clear about the human rights violations and aggressive attacks in nigeria. that's very clear. islamism, unlike islam, which is a major world religion, is a criminal ideology. islamism and islam must be very clearly distinguished. but, ladies and gentlemen, we must also be careful not to look at things too one-sidedly. most of these states in west africa - we know this - were artificially drawn on the map by the colonial powers, which means that we have in the south people who are divided, like the ibo or the ewe, who are christians and animists and exist on both sides of the borders. the same applies to the peoples of the north, the hausa and fulbe, who are mostly muslims and also exist in the various states. these national borders have been drawn simply and have never corresponded to ethnic realities in history. we must also see this, and we as europeans have a real responsibility in this. the resolution rightly refers to the 'plateau state'. in the plateau state, these ethnic groups clash with one another, and this is exacerbated by economic imbalances and migration. the whole thing is a very sensitive mixture that can easily explode. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the projects which it has proposed. i would like to say to you, however, my dear colleague, mrs andrée léonard: it is a bit of a stretch to say that there is fundamentalism on the christian side and fundamentalism on the islamic side. there is no christian fundamentalism in nigeria. there is no islamic fundamentalism either, but there is this complicated conflict situation on the one hand and on the other hand islamist ideologues who try to abuse this conflict situation for their own purposes. we must approach the matter with a sound knowledge of the history and ethnic situation of these countries. only then can we support the peace process and prevent nigeria from falling apart in a bloody war, compared to which the slaughter in the former yugoslavia was a trifle. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to achieve their goals.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i ask the president to protect us very much from media working for a mr martin when we are put on the watch list tomorrow morning. we have nothing to hide, but we don't want to be bothered. i assure the house that until recently i did not believe that i could have been systematically spied on by a mr martin, at least since 2002, using a buttonhole micro-camera. if i had known that, i would have boycotted mr martin since 2002. i also strongly condemn certain german media which have used a certain mr martin as a so-called 'cross-witness' and have thus exposed me, for example, to a disgusting campaign to destroy my reputation in germany. i have always followed the rules here in the house.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am sorry, i had higher expectations of mr martin's statement now. i thought he was going to explain to us why he had voted for many of the amendments tabled by mr van hulten, although he was not in the chamber. it is an unexplainable phenomenon that someone wants to have voted on a myriad of amendments, even though he was outside. we could all do that, do some interviews outside and then lists at the presidency... (the president cut the speaker off)
vice-president of the commission. (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express the emotion of the moment we are living. the emotion we all felt when, to the notes of the hymn to joy, our european anthem, we saw ten new flags being hoisted, along with the fifteen flags already hoisted on the masts in front of parliament. an excitement of a day when we see the culmination of ambitions, hopes lived by so many, over so many years, who have fought for freedom. it is a moment to overcome the brutal scars which have marked for too many years an artificial division of our europe, a division which had its origin in war, a division which meant leaving many european countries separated by that wall of shame, by that steel curtain, absolutely artificial, contrary to our own nature, which left all those countries in a situation of oppression and communist dictatorship. the 21st century has to overcome the horrors of the 20th century, and we are definitely overcoming those horrors that we have experienced in europe. the 21st century is the century in which europe is taking its place as a full-fledged actor in the international arena, in the arena and in the concert of nations. we must therefore conclude the agreement on a constitutional treaty as soon as possible, which will really give us the instruments and the capacity to make europe a reality not only on our continent but also as a major player on the international stage. (applause) that's what we have to get together. we are living in a historic moment in this parliament. the historic moment that we have seen repeatedly, through the various television channels or in person, in some cases, over the course of these days, living that 1 may 2004, will always remain as an essential milestone in the full recovery of europe. and i want to say to those 162 new members, mr president, that we in the commission hope to continue the collaboration that has developed over the years between the two institutions, together with the council, in building this exciting project that is europe. a project that definitely seeks peace and guarantees freedom, democracy, human rights, human dignity, in our continent, but also to be a beacon and support internationally our values, our principles and our desires. (applause) i want to say that we regard the commission, and we all agree, as the real heart of this european construction. but the heart of the commission beats because of the support it receives systematically in this parliament. this commission, which has been instrumental in pushing forward enlargement, this commission which has been able over the years to promote cooperation, collaboration and respect with parliament and also with the other essential institution, the council. mr president, these are historic days and moments. we are all working together - parliament, the council and the commission - for this great project, for this great ambition which is europe. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. this is the hour of a dream come true, and i have to admit that i'm having a hard time controlling my emotions because i'm overwhelmed by the magnitude of the moment. a freely elected european parliament representing 25 self-confident, free, sovereign european nations, voluntarily joined together in a federation: that is more than those who first dreamed of the idea of european unity would have dared to hope for. i am more convinced than ever that this great enlargement, which has now been completed, is a shining testimony to the attractiveness, the dynamism and the youth of the european idea. it's not true that this idea has become old. it is particularly attractive to those nations which have had to make the difficult journey to freedom, democracy and the rule of law. but this enlargement is also proof of what we europeans can do when we tackle a big project together and when we have the will to really finish it. (applause from the centre) not many in the world have trusted us, and we can be proud of what has been achieved here. i believe that the proof of the viability of the idea of european integration has finally been given. i would like to counter some of the popular views that have been expressed in recent days. firstly, it is not true that european integration is an elite project. this enlargement was the expressed wish and declared will of the peoples. it would not have been possible if the baltic peoples, the poles, the czechs, the slovaks, the hungarians and the slovenes had not made it clear that they belong once and for all to this democratic family of a united europe and do not want to be left alone somewhere in the no man's land between east and west. (applause from the centre) the second is that this great enlargement does not make europe weaker, it makes europe stronger. it makes us politically stronger, and it makes us economically stronger. there are risks involved, there are problems involved, everyone knows that. but the opportunities and opportunities far outweigh the risks, and we have reason for optimism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it will depend to a large extent on you whether your faith in european unity remains strong enough to undertake other major projects. a third and final one: to be part of this great work of european unification does not mean giving up one's sovereignty or national identity. the opposite is true. those who say in the new and old member states that european integration means the end of the sovereignty of peoples do not understand the world as it is today. no single country in europe is able to cope with the problems that threaten us today! (applause from the centre) no country in europe can cope with the consequences of globalisation on its own. no country can achieve the balance between growth and social justice on its own. no country can win the fight against international terrorism and international crime on its own. we can only do this together. national sovereignty can only be used and defended if it is exercised jointly with others. that's the idea, that's why we're here! i want to thank everyone who helped make this happen. i would like to thank the european parliament and the determined political leadership of its president, pat cox. i thank the committees, in particular the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, chaired by mr elmar brok. i thank all the groups who have supported us critically and constructively. i warmly welcome you all here and look forward to working with you. (applause from the centre)
mr president, madam vice-president de palacio, commissioner verheugen, other members of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! let me start by saying something personal. i have had the privilege of being a member of this european parliament since 1979 - since its first direct elections. if, back then, in the 1979 election campaign, we had been told that on 1 may 2004, three nations occupied by the soviet union - namely estonia, latvia and lithuania - the warsaw pact states poland, the czech republic, slovakia and hungary, part of communist yugoslavia - namely slovenia - and malta and cyprus - we hope that cyprus will also be a united country one day in the not too distant future - would be part of the european union, then in 1979, the year of the first direct elections to the european parliament, our answer would probably have been: "that is a beautiful vision, that is a beautiful dream, that is a great hope, but we wish for this dream, this vision, this hope to become a reality in our lifetime, although we do not wish it to be". this dream has come true. if we are to welcome 162 colleagues from the ten countries here today, it is a great day for the european union, it is a great day for democracy, it is a great day for parliamentarism - we should be very pleased to be able to welcome our colleagues here today! (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that it was our parliament - and all the groups have a part to play in this - that insisted that we should not be negotiating with just five countries, but with 12, and that those who were not yet ready should be given the opportunity to catch up. if ten countries have joined the european union today, it is because we, as the european parliament, have called for latvia, lithuania and slovakia to be included in the negotiations, and they have succeeded. i think we should all be congratulated on that. (applause from the centre) let us not forget that we know that the european parliament is not being reported in the media in a way that reflects the decisions of the parliament. it was our parliament that called for a timetable for the negotiations, which was adopted by the commission and the nice summit, so that they could be concluded in such a way that the countries with the capacity to do so could participate with their people in the european elections of 2004. it was our parliament! we should tell the people that, and we should be proud of it, because it is a contribution to the establishment of democracy in europe and to giving the people in the ten countries the chance to send their freely elected representatives to the european parliament. let us be happy about that! (applause from the centre) the day-to-day will catch up with us quickly, and europe is not doing well in the big speeches that it needs to be. today is a beautiful day, as is may day, but the day will catch up with us quickly. we will discuss, we will also argue, but the new and great opportunity - we must say this to the people of the european union - the great thing about this european union is that we no longer fight and debate with violence and weapons, but with words and arguments. this is a great step forward for our european continent in the 21st century. (applause from the centre) my dear friends! i am sorry that i have made a linguistic error in saying that, dear friends, but we are bound together by our ideal of european unity. mr president, we have just heard not only your impressive contribution outside at the impressive ceremony, but also lech walesa's. it stands for solidarity, and solidarity must mean for all of us, for the future, that we make the national interests of individual countries, for example the baltic states with their minorities, which must of course be respected, but which must not call into question the independence of the countries, our own, and vice versa. we must therefore oppose everything else, as commissioner verheugen has done, and i would like to thank him for his important contribution to making this europe a europe of solidarity. we'll all benefit from it. for the first time in its long history of thousands of years, this continent has the chance to move into the future in peace and partnership. it is our continent, it is an old continent that is constantly renewing itself, and no one will be able to divide us. we're going to walk the path together. it's a big day for all of us! (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i have a small request. on 1 may, hitler and stalin lost for good, the walesa and havels, the delors and the kohls won. but many in the candidate countries, as in the original european union and as we in the european parliament, have contributed to making this moment come. i therefore ask you, mr president, to put the names of the 10 rapporteurs for the 10 countries in the minutes for today. i should like to read out the names in the order in which they were received: schröder, poos, gahler, queiró, elisabeth schroedter, souladakis, stenzel, gawronski, volcic, wiersma and the three rapporteurs who have since retired: mrs hoff, mrs carlsson and mr matella. please do us the honour of recording these names. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very sorry that we have to go back to such a banal thing as a protocol, especially today, in these very important discussions and emotionally charged issues, but we have in this high house a self-proclaimed hero. this brave deputy of the tabloids is capable of anything. now mr hans-peter martin is even falsifying the minutes of the european parliament. in the votes on the van hulten report mr martin has had his alleged voting behaviour corrected 13 times, although he was not present at the vote at all. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. so all this has to be crossed off the record again. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) fraud and forgery have no place in a document of this parliament. i do not have to give you advice, mr president, but i cannot ignore the reference to rule 124 of our rules of procedure and its possibilities. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is a great pleasure and honour for me to be here today to remember the great european, jean monnet, and to recall that the italian anti-fascist and democratic communist, altiero spinelli, was the initiator of the draft treaty establishing the european union of 14 february 1984. it is well known that the european parliament at that time approved this draft treaty, a precursor to the draft constitution drawn up by the european convention, by a remarkably large majority. at that time, altiero spinelli explicitly pointed out that the european parliament, as the european institution directly legitimised by its citizens, was primarily called upon to promote and develop european unification. i think that this message from spinelli, which sounds like a legacy, is still fully valid today. it should therefore continue to be the guiding principle for the work of this house, because from now on it is a question of 25 countries making their life together in the european union in solidarity and together for 450 million people democratic and social. i am convinced that this is the only way in which the unification of europe, which was formally completed on 1 may, can be a real success and a viable one. altiero spinelli was elected to the european parliament in 1979 on the list of the italian communist party. he was a member of the communist group, which at that time consisted almost exclusively of representatives of the communist parties of italy and france. as chairman of the institutional committee, he was responsible for drawing up the draft treaty from july 1982. i am sure that you will look at me with some sympathy, since i am very much in the tradition of spinelli, if i now refer to the man and politician spinelli. i do so primarily because altiero spinelli broke with stalinism early on, in 1937, and later fought tirelessly for european unity with idealism, passion, energy and sometimes with visions that went beyond his own time, whether as an adviser to de gasperis, jean monnet, the italian foreign minister nenni, as a visiting professor and political scientist, as a member of the commission or the european parliament. his critics and opponents said that he sometimes indulged in fantasies, but he did more than make friends among his own people. in altiero spinelli, i see the european heritage of the recent past as a person. no more nationalism, fascism and war. it was this bitter experience in particular that made him so passionately committed to a united europe. altiero spinelli fought against fascism and suffered for years in mussolini's prisons. it was therefore only logical that it was figures such as spinelli who were among the initiators of the draft european manifesto at the conferences of the european resistance in geneva in 1944. before the war ended, spinelli returned to northern italy and joined the armed resistance. after the war, he was one of the founders of the european movement, along with personalities such as henri frenay, head of the french resistance movement combat, and the german buchenwald survivor eugen kogon. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it is the council that has always been the party to the treaty of rome. i think we should all keep this anti-fascist legacy in our minds, but above all, we should always act on it! (applause from the centre)
council. mr president, i would also like to pay a warm tribute to mr hume on what was a remarkable valedictory speech. i am very pleased to be invited to speak to you today in this general debate on the future of the enlarged european union – towards a european constitution. today's debate is taking place as representatives of all the member states and of the parliament are meeting in dublin. the task that has been set for them is to resolve the outstanding non-institutional issues in the debate on the constitutional treaty. as a member of the european convention, i am very conscious of the hard work and the deep commitment of the representatives of the european parliament to the convention process. while we may not have been entirely in agreement on each and every issue, i valued our shared commitment to producing a constitutional treaty that will serve this union well and that will commend itself to the citizens of europe. while negotiations on the draft treaty are yet to be concluded, we can take some satisfaction from what has been achieved. i should like to underline that at this point in our discussions we have moved much further, in a much more positive way, than anyone would have believed possible in the dark days of december and the early days of january. the draft that came out of the convention provided the intergovernmental conference with a truly excellent framework on which to build a constitutional treaty that will stand the test of time. the draft is presented in language which is more accessible than any previous treaty. the draft makes it clear who does what in the union. it elaborates the doctrine of subsidiarity, it clarifies the scope of the european union's powers, it enhances democratic accountability and simplifies the range of legal instruments through which the union acts. it seeks to provide the union of 25 and more member states with institutions that are workable and capable of meeting the needs of our citizens and of our union into the future. it enshrines for the first time a charter of fundamental rights in the union's constitutional order. it equips our union to act with greater cohesion internally and to project and promote our shared values on the world stage, the very values of which mr hume spoke so movingly a few moments ago. this is a formidable document that should commend itself to the people of europe. when i listen to critics and sceptics i am at a loss to understand what they are talking about. as i said on the bbc last weekend, i earnestly hope that the critics and sceptics – including those in this house – will take just a little time to consider this draft document and what it contains, and to take on board its very many merits. (applause) i want to express my thanks to parliament for its strong support of our efforts to conclude the igc under the irish presidency. i can reassure you, mr president, and the members of this parliament again today that we are doing everything in our power to bring negotiations to a successful conclusion. the very positive reaction to the taoiseach's report to the spring council and the confirmation that the political will existed to reach agreement by the june european council is a very encouraging sign of the commitment of partners to finding a final agreement. while we must not underestimate the challenge that lies ahead, we can say with some confidence that we are closer to agreement than we have ever been. we are seeking to make as much progress as possible during may, so as to leave only a very small number of issues for final decision by the heads of state or government at the june european council. in this context, the taoiseach called on partners take a 'positive and focused approach' to the negotiations and to avoid bringing issues not previously identified to the negotiating table. in response to president cox's point earlier, foreign ministers will meet for detailed discussions on 17 and 18 may. it is our ambition and intention to resolve as many outstanding issues as possible at that meeting. at the last meeting of the general affairs council, minister cowen made it clear that if, in his view, further work is required, the foreign ministers will meet on 24 may and if necessary again after that. we will also continue to meet partners bilaterally, at both political and official level. the taoiseach in particular will be using his pre-european council tour of capitals, which started this week, to tease out member states' concerns, to assuage those concerns, to answer any outstanding fears and to bring matters to resolution. i do not propose to go into too much detail on the outstanding issues. you are all aware of them: the definition and scope of qmv, the composition of the commission, and a number of other issues of varying degrees of complexity and sensitivity. however, irrespective of how complex the issues are or how sensitive they are, if there is a political will, a way will be found to resolve those conflicts and sensitive issues. touching on a number of key issues, we have made clear our view that only a voting system based on a double majority can command a consensus. however, while keeping the need for efficiency, we must also pay due regard to the needs for balance among the member states and to their specific concerns. it should be possible to reach an outcome which meets the concerns of all, perhaps through some adjustment of the population and the member state thresholds. as regards the scope of qmv, there is a general desire, shared i know by parliament, for its extension with a view to promoting efficient decision-making in a larger union. at the same time, there is also a need to take account of the particular concerns of member states. i believe that a satisfactory overall outcome, which will involve a further growth in the number of areas subject to qmv and to codecision, will be found. we all agree that the commission must be effective. we also fully appreciate the concerns of member states regarding the composition of the commission. mr hume spoke about the institutional framework and its extraordinarily subtle formula. i feel that the two perspectives – the concerns about an efficient commission and the concerns about the composition of the commission – could possibly be reconciled through maintaining, for an extended period, a commission comprising one national from each member state, moving thereafter to a reduced size on the basis of strict equal rotation. i know that a great many of you hope that it will be possible to conclude the constitutional treaty before the european parliament elections, and indeed, privately, that would be my hope and desire too. as presidency, we would like to be in a position to do so, but at this stage it is more realistic to suggest that the final negotiations will conclude in the june european council. we should recognise that the vast bulk of the convention's work has remained unchanged and will not be changed. we should remember that we have agreed a clear set of values and principles to which we can all subscribe and which go to the very heart of what the european union is and what the european union is hoping to achieve. these are not in question in the intergovernmental conference. it is worth reiterating what we have achieved: we have made tremendous progress in simplifying decision-making, in making clear who is responsible for taking decisions, in making clear to citizens that these decisions will be taken at the appropriate level. we have further enhanced the role of the european parliament and strengthened, as a result, the democratic scrutiny of the union. these principles are not in question in the igc. we should also remember the very substantial progress on the outstanding non-institutional issues made by the italian presidency, to which i pay tribute. the proposals which we have tabled for discussion at today's focal point meeting owe a great deal to the work of this presidency's predecessors. this new constitution will be good for the european union, it will be good for the member states, and, most importantly of all, it will be good for the citizens of europe. of that i am absolutely convinced. as presidency, we are committed to doing everything in our power to ensure a successful outcome to the negotiations. following on from the momentous achievement of the enlargement which has just taken place, the successful conclusion of negotiations on the constitutional treaty is the next logical step in our union's advancement. (applause)
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have all been touched and encouraged by the demonstrations of joy that greeted the arrival of ten new member states in the european union on 1 may. these expressions of enthusiasm are well justified. indeed, enlargement is the future. first, the future of european history, a future of peace, prosperity, solidarity and unity on a continental scale. but also the future of the european project, a project in which we must work together and in which we must constantly, every day, demonstrate and explain the added value to our citizens in order to merit their consensus. enlargement also represents this unique opportunity, which we must take seriously, to reform our policies and restructure the european institutions in such a way as to develop the appropriate tools which will enable the union of tomorrow to focus not only on the internal and external requirements of efficiency, transparency and simplification, but also on the concrete concerns of citizens, on everything that can make a difference in their daily lives. it is useful to recall to you the reasons why the laeken european council decided to create the convention on the future of europe: the growing distance between citizens and the european institutions, the need to rethink the european project and the institutions in the context of enlargement and the need to reflect on europe's role in the world, in an increasingly globalised world. it is useful, mr president, to recall the challenges that the laeken council set the convention: the challenge of clearly defining the division of powers between the union and the member states in order to explain better to citizens who is doing what in the european union; the challenge of simplifying the union's texts and decision-making instruments and procedures, of bringing real added value to the european institutions and decision-making processes in terms of democracy, transparency and efficiency, and perhaps even of considering the adoption of a european constitution. in the face of this question, the convention has made a very clear choice, very, very clear! we have chosen the constitutional path. we decided to put the citizen at the centre of the european project, hence the full integration of the charter of fundamental rights into the constitutional treaty. and today, as minister roche has just said, we are closer than ever to the adoption of a true european constitution. our desire to see this ambitious project come to fruition reflects our assessment of the work of the convention. the commission considers that the draft constitution has achieved the objectives of simplicity, efficiency and democracy. the text is not perfect, of course. we believe that some very specific and more limited improvements to the draft constitution of the convention are desirable, while respecting the overall balance of the text. the capacity to act in the context of decision-making, which will now be carried out by 25, must be improved by a more general extension of qualified majority voting. the decision-making procedure needs to be made clearer. we are strong supporters of the double majority in the council's evaluation of votes. i understand the point made by minister roche. arrangements will have to be made to ensure that everyone is in the double majority system. but be careful not to introduce into the system of double majorities any confusion which would deprive it of its important added value, namely efficiency and clarity in the eyes of the citizens. please do not throw the baby out with the bath water! it must also be able to respond to future developments, which are already in the offing, by making the procedure for revising the treaties more flexible, at least as regards the union's policies. part iii is lagging behind the modernisation of all the other elements of the constitutional treaty. in addition, it is not sufficiently permeable to the union's new objectives in terms of the lisbon agenda and sustainable development. provision should be made for a relaxed revision of part iii. finally, it is very important to preserve equal treatment for all member states, in particular by providing for a commission composed of one commissioner with a voting right per member state, which also requires an internal structure of the commission that is faithful to the principle of collegiality. this solution for the commission must be valid at least until our new member states and the acceding countries are fully integrated. if necessary, other solutions should be considered. i can only support, mr president, the determination of the irish presidency to conclude the negotiations on the future constitution, ideally before the european parliament elections or, in any case, immediately after this crucial event. we are all on the same page - and i believe i am expressing the views of the commission, the european parliament and the presidency - when we insist that the european constitution, which will confirm the progress made by the convention, should be put into effect in the first half of this year. i would also like to thank the european parliament on behalf of the commission for its significant contribution to the drafting of the european constitution. in particular, through the efforts of all the representatives of the european parliament within the convention and its praesidium. i would like to distinguish between klaus hänsch, ìñigo méndez de vigo and andrew duff. the european parliament has also insisted during the igc negotiations that progress on the convention should not be derailed. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis of the treaty of rome. in this context, the commission shares the insistence of the european parliament, and i believe the very large majority of the national delegations, that the consensus reached within the convention on almost all the points discussed should not be called into question during this final period of negotiations within the igc. steps backwards, for example in the balance between the european parliament and the council in financial and budgetary matters, would be completely inexplicable in the light of the principle of democratic representativeness. that said, i would like to stress that the process of constitutionalisation in europe also requires efforts on the part of the next european parliament and the next commission. in the light of the ratification procedures in all the current and new member states - especially if referendums are organised as, apparently, they will be - it is crucial that a public debate on the european constitution actually takes place. we must avoid the trap of limiting this debate to the juxtaposition of twenty-five national debates, and make it a genuine european debate. (applause) finally, mr president, milan kundera has written that we only want to be masters of the future in order to be able to change the past. for my part, i want to take control of the future, because i see it as a future of peace, prosperity and solidarity, anchored in a european constitution capable of giving democratic and effective answers to the expectations and needs of 450 million citizens. it's about mastering the past to write our common future. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. john hume, who has been a member of parliament since 1979, has just made an impressive speech. he's leaving parliament, and so is my irish friend joe mccartin. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fact that we are able to take stock of the situation gives us the confidence, the hope, that we can really look to the future of our continent with optimism. let us recall the earlier enlargements: in 1973 the europe of the six was enlarged to include ireland, denmark and the united kingdom, and in 1981 greece, in 1986 spain and portugal, and in 1995 three more countries: finland, sweden and austria. and finally, the community of twenty-five. the european community is a community of nations, and its members are the citizens of europe. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. then amsterdam in 1995, then nice - well, it was not quite as successful, but it brought the decision that we want to conclude the negotiations with the candidate countries by the european elections. if we take all this together, this development in these years, we must say: this is a great continent which, although it has faced great difficulties, has always gone forward in the right direction. it is a great good fortune that we have an irish presidency - and the european minister and responsible president of the council, dick roche, is here - which is leading this presidency with vision and at the same time with pragmatism and at the same time, which is very crucial for progress, with good will. i would like to thank you, mr president-in-office, for the work you have done so far. they deserve it, as europe has deserved it, that we now come to a european constitution. i would also like to express my gratitude to mr vitorino, who, together with mr barnier, led the work with our colleagues in the convention. of course, there are still some open questions. we in the ppe-de group would like to see the irish presidency succeed in including a reference to the christian-jewish heritage in the preamble. this is something that we think is important because it embodies our values. but it is also important that you, mr president-in-office, do not agree to the limitation of the budgetary powers of the european parliament. mr vitorino also referred to this. this cannot be allowed to happen. it is the prerogative of the european parliament and of any parliament in general to decide on the budget, and we cannot accept any limitation of our budgetary rights. the european constitution is a great step forward because it strengthens the community of europe. it is progress because it strengthens european democracy and parliamentarism. the european constitution is a step forward because it strengthens subsidiarity and because it mentions local selfgovernment for the first time. the municipalities, the cities, the communities, that is, the places where we are at home, are given the right to shape their own affairs. and there is the right of action of the national parliaments if the right of subsidiarity is violated. europe is becoming more active, europe is becoming more democratic, and we want to achieve the unity of this diverse europe. the constitution is a means to that end. the european union is a political union, a political union of the people. who will we want to be good neighbors with? we want to live in good neighbourliness with everyone, especially our arab and islamic neighbours, so that this can be a continent of peace, on a legal basis with a constitution. we wish the irish presidency every success in achieving this for us. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the timetable for the constitutional debate and the content of the constitution have been almost completely discussed today. we welcome the skill and determination of the irish presidency in bringing about the adoption of the constitution by the end of june. i agree with the demands and warnings made by commissioner vitorino here. i would like to thank you, commissioner, for your brilliant role in the convention bureau, and parliament is grateful to you for that. what do we need the constitution for? the european union must be able to take on its responsibilities in world politics only with the constitution. without a constitution, the european states will remain the playthings of other powers, and only with a constitution will they become players. the constitution alone will make the larger european union stronger, more capable of action and more democratic. without a constitution, the union will gradually degenerate into a customs union. only with the constitution can the union regain its attractiveness for its citizens, because europe will become more understandable and more responsible. without a constitution, people will lose the last of their faith in the viability of european unity. failure would be more than the end of a great hope. failure to do so would be a relapse into a europe of intrigue and scheming, and failure would be the beginning of the end of european unity. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not the council that has been the party to the treaty of rome. we do not need a union of the axis and alliances of so-called strategic partnerships. we must not turn our europe into a patchwork union that confuses citizens at home and discredits europe abroad. a key word in the constitution is balance. this has been and is a keyword for peace and stability in europe. in the old europe, the states tried for centuries to achieve this balance. on the field of diplomacy by axis and alliances, and on the battlefields by blood and iron. the constitution for the new europe of the 21st century establishes the balance by means of equal participation of all states and a fair weighting of each individual in common institutions. the balance of power of the old europe has been replaced by the balance of institutions and the legitimacy of states and citizens in the new european constitution. a new world order is emerging. today, not in ten years. if we europeans do not act now, we will be out of the history books. first politically, and then inevitably economically. the union of europeans, based on this constitution, is our response to globalisation. what we're about to do is unprecedented in history. it requires political courage and a firm belief in the future of our old continent. legally, the constitution is a treaty which replaces the existing eu treaties. but it does what all democratic constitutions do in the world, which is to legitimize power and limit power. politically, the constitution makes the enlarged european union more stable, more capable of action, more responsible, more manageable and more comprehensible, and thus more trustworthy and reliable for its citizens. but historically, the constitution is nothing less than the re-establishment of the european union. a union which sets an example to itself and to the world, a union of peace, freedom and justice!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i've been listening to you with interest. but, mr minister, the public does not know what is being negotiated at the moment and what the draft constitution is actually like. at the same time, there are massive attacks on the text presented by the convention. the council is to adopt it at the end of the irish presidency. it's only a few weeks away. therefore, as a former member of the convention, i make the following urgent appeal to the irish presidency of the council and the european council:first, under no circumstances should we give in to the renewed push by the european central bank to revise the targeting in part i. the convention has advocated that the ecb should continue to promote sustainable growth, employment and price stability in a balanced way. secondly, part iii of the draft constitution must be politically and legally aligned with the basic provisions of part i, as this house has insisted. the aim is to safeguard the social dimension of the european union. in other words, the open market economy with free competition must be abolished and replaced by a social market economy. otherwise, the door to manchester capitalism will be wide open. thirdly, unlike mr poettering, i would say that the preamble to the constitution does not mention god. the people living in the eu must not be divided into believers and non-believers. the european parliament has also been asked to give its opinion on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external relations. yes, we need a referendum on the constitution. i've already made a case for that at the convent. the citizens have the last word, because their future is at stake. i am calling for a european referendum on the constitution on the same day in all member states. i propose that the date be 8 may 2005. the day, the 60th anniversary of the liberation from fascism and the eve of the european day, would be suitable for such a vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. let me just say one thing about freedom of speech: this has been an open process, where every detail in the convention has been public, where you could read it, review it, and have input and debate. this is a process in which all the legitimate actors have been involved, from the national parliaments to the council and the european parliament and the commission. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. let me make a few remarks. firstly, we have achieved the project of the century, which is to reunite all of europe. we have heard a lot of great speeches about this in the last few days. i hope that these will not remain sunday speeches but that we will draw practical conclusions from them. the practical consequence is that we must make this enlarged europe work and legitimize it. that's why the constitution is so important. if we are in favour of european unification, we must be in favour of this constitution, a constitution which is democratic, which is based on the values enshrined in the preamble and the charter of fundamental rights, values which, in my view, have been derived in many respects from christian values. we must have a european union that is capable of working. there is no point in having a larger union which has decision-making structures that do not lead to action. we must all realise after these sunday speeches that none of us can any longer - and that is why this unity of europe exists - look after its own interests in this world alone. no one can be a true nationalist anymore. because it is better to reduce our national interests where we have a common denominator, because through the common denominator we can develop the strength to also take care of national interests. the national interests can only be safeguarded through europe, and if this becomes clear in the practical work and in the development of this constitution, then we will really make progress. i would like to thank the irish presidency once again for its wise leadership, even though we still have a lot of detailed discussions to have because of the last document, where we as the european parliament cannot agree with the proposals. i hope that we can still achieve a good result.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is no doubt that the enlargement of the union to 10 countries is an event of historic importance. it is difficult to predict what place this may 1, 2004, will take in history. if we believe the politicians, the accession of the formerly real socialist countries and republics of eastern europe will not enlarge europe, but complete it. while there is understandable and justified joy at the fall of frontiers, it should not be overlooked that many citizens in both the old and new member states are skeptical about the future. if you live in prague or budapest with only 3 to 4 percent unemployment, you will think differently about things than someone in northern moravia near ostrava, where it is about 30 percent. i have seen how celebrations were soon followed by disillusionment and disappointment, which still have repercussions in the federal republic. the negotiations focused on the implementation of the copenhagen criteria. but the developments with serious social disparities, with poverty for many and immense wealth for a few, have not been debated. i am far from putting water in the wine at this solemn moment, but i know that in the long run, nothing is worse than self-deception, and nothing does greater political damage than a lack of willingness to accept history with all its contradictions, with its bitterness and problems. it is my last speech in this parliament, and therefore my request: there must be no place in european democracy for xenophobia, for anti-semitism and for anti-communism of any kind or form. europe is bigger than the union, the european union will have new neighbours. good neighbors, this is the order of the day. i was in riga a week ago and i saw how much more needs to be done if we are to have real confidence in our neighbours. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think that the debate we have just had shows the diversity we have in this europe. this is one of the strengths of this europe. we will certainly have to spend a number of years trying to develop a common political approach from this diversity in this greater europe. we should spend that time together. i want to make a point of this. we must now certainly undergo a period of consolidation in all the institutions so that we can ensure that europe is able to act in a lasting way. we have a number of issues that need to be discussed. of course, europe must maintain its capacity to act where it has already done so, so that we can meet the challenge of globalisation, so that we can take action on the question of economic cooperation, on the creation of a common framework. but we must ensure that we gain the capacity to act where europe has not been able to do so. this also applies to the question of foreign and security policy. europe has a lot to do in the next few years. i hope we can do this together. we will then have to answer the question very seriously: what is it that unites us in this european union? is it just a free trade zone? is it a common currency and a common market? that would be too little for me personally. europe is founded on a common history and culture, europe is founded on values which unite us, which also unite the 25 countries which are now members of the european union. we need to develop new approaches to be able to cooperate with those with whom we want to cooperate closely in our neighbourhood, and not just talk about it. there is only the possibility of being a non-member or a full member of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is the challenge we have to face. let us find new answers to new challenges and consolidate what we have achieved so that we can move well into the 21st century.
i have to say, madam president, i had the wonderful opportunity to share the historic event of the extension and the joy of the neighbours on the frankfurt city bridge. it was a unique experience, especially because it was a long process with a lot of work on both sides. the winners may have celebrated, but there are losers. we 've been over this . the turkish cypriots, who have voted for europe, are a major loser. another is the people on both sides of the new external border. as vice-president for relations with ukraine, moldova and belarus, i know these regions. i am disappointed that the commission is going backwards with its neighbourhood concept, that it is not starting where the problems of the people are at the borders. it has geopolitical answers to concrete problems in the border regions. that's the wrong answer. what people are concerned about is the fear of the new schengen border, the fear of the new border and the fear of a new ice age. if you were to go to these regions, you would see this too. i am very much counting on the cooperation of colleagues from poland, slovakia, ukraine and the other neighbours, so that we really change the concept of neighbourhood. we need a neighbourhood approach which opens up the frontiers for the regions to meet, for retail trade, for economic development, otherwise the inner regions will die too. we have been experiencing this for years in the german border regions. i therefore ask the commission to reconsider its approach and to ensure that the idea of the peace project europe reaches the new frontiers, and that the door is not closed there, but that we continue with parliament's proposal, namely an open door policy, with concrete steps to solve the concrete problems of the people on the ground.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i believe that the european economic and social model is so successful in relation to many parts of the world because in recent years we have developed an economically effective and environmentally friendly european transport policy with reasonable conditions for workers. i shall only mention as examples the driving and rest periods in road transport or the working hours in the transport sector. this european transport policy is based on the fact that we have already overcome or are in the process of overcoming the differences in national rules in the transport sector, thus creating a single internal market, including in the transport sector. a recent example is the opening of national rail networks to non-discriminatory use by all railway companies in the union for freight services in 2006 and 2007. or i will take the creation of a single european airspace on 31 december 2004 as another example. secondly, european transport policy is based on the fact that we have overcome the thinking and acting in national infrastructure networks and are building and expanding a transeuropean transport network within the union. we have just decided, 14 days ago, to carry out a major overhaul of the transeuropean transport networks, thus overcoming the union of 15 in the field of transport infrastructure and adopting 30 priority projects for the union of 25. i expect the new member states to implement european transport rules quickly, if they have not already done so, so that the internal transport market becomes a reality in all parts of the european union. i hope that we will all work together in the next committee on transport and tourism to promote and develop european transport policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'd like to correct you. i think mr pirker has given me his two minutes for the record, so i have four minutes. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, from 25 countries! the enlargement of our european union to the east did not happen overnight on 1 may, but was a ten-year process that has required enormous efforts from both the old european union and the new member states. in the field of internal and judicial policy in particular, many inhabitants of the old eu countries feared a higher crime rate after enlargement. but here much has been achieved by the accession negotiations, and also by the new member states' own considerable contribution. who would have believed ten years ago that german and polish border guards would one day be jointly controlling their border? but the new member states have also been very successful in combating national crime, so that the old member states have often had to break down their prejudices. in the face of new threats, particularly from international terrorism, we must act in an even more european manner in the future. after the attacks of 11 september in new york, there was an unfortunate and unprecedented boost in our common domestic and judicial policy. many decisions were taken in record time: the european arrest warrant, a uniform definition of terrorism, including criminal sanctions, and the freezing of terrorist funds. unfortunately, a year later, interest had already waned and we as a parliament had not even succeeded in strengthening the structures of europol for the fight against terrorism. national solo and rivalry came to the fore again. it is only after the tragic attacks in madrid that the subject has been put back on the agenda. the council quickly created the office of coordinator for terrorism, but unfortunately without any real powers. the measures we decided on after 11 september 2001, almost two and a half years ago, have still not been implemented in the member states. the conclusion here is that we as parliament, as the european union, have done our homework, but the member states have not. the next major issues on the agenda of the enlarged union are already there. our visa policy must be harmonised, including the establishment of a visa information system. the border control standards must be harmonised and controlled by the european border guard agency. the second generation schengen information system must finally be completed. europol needs to be even more closely integrated into national crime prevention and strengthened in terms of staff, and we urgently need the eu financial prosecutor to be able to fight fraud at the expense of the european union efficiently. the new member states must take even stronger action against corruption in this context than in the past. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms. we have done a great deal in this election period to ensure the safety of european citizens. but much has also failed because of unanimity in the council and because of national egoisms. the entry into force of the constitutional treaty is therefore as important in almost no other area of content as in domestic and judicial policy. the eu of 25 will only be able to fight terrorism and organised crime effectively in the future if we move towards simpler and more transparent procedures. the council in particular must adopt majority voting and the budgetary allocation for this period of the treaty must be considerably increased, because not only agriculture and economic structures but also security have their price. i hope that this will be a constructive and practical cooperation in the newly elected parliament. i would like to thank you very much, commissioner vitorino. we have not always been in agreement on asylum, but we have been very supportive of you on home affairs and justice, and i hope that the applause from the left is in this area, because it shows that in the future we will be able to act together, even more strongly than before.
mr president, mr president of the commission, dear new members of the commission, dear colleagues! this is a day of celebration, but it is also the day when work begins. we welcomed our new colleagues the day before yesterday and, mr president of the commission, we wished you would have shared this joy with us here in strasbourg. but you are here today, and we are delighted to have you here with the new and the old members of the commission. we have always regarded the commission as a kind of government. this is how commission president romano prodi started his work five years ago. it is not the commission's responsibility to make the necessary adjustments to the treaties, but it is the responsibility of the member states to make the necessary adjustments to the treaties. i wish the new commissioners every success in their work and i would like to give our group every possible support. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, and to the establishment of a common foreign and security policy. we also warmly welcome jacques barrot and joaquín almunia from the member states which were already members of the european union before 1 may, and of course commissioner dimas, whom we have already seen here in the house. i think it is very important to agree once again on the role of the european commission. i know that this is also being discussed particularly in the countries which have now joined the european union. i think that the discussions in some of the applicant countries about the fact that the members of the commission from the applicant countries are too european are completely out of line. i would like to say to the new commissioners who are faced with such reservations in their countries that we stand by them when they put the good of the european union first, because that is their european constitutional role, so to speak, which they have to play. they represent the whole of the european union and their work is centred on the european interest. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. if you are challenged in your countries, we will defend you there! i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the european parliament. i hope that the commissioners from the candidate countries will succeed in this, together with the members of the european parliament, in conveying the need for european policy in their countries and in making it clear that those who only look at their own nation are actually harming their national interests. only those who combine the interests of their own nation with the interests of europe as a whole will be able to advance their nation, because those who see only their own nation will have no allies in europe and cannot do anything for their own country. that is why the representation of interests at local, regional, national and european level belong together, and i wish the new members of the commission every success in that. i have just said that the members of the commission are politicians, but not party politicians. mr president of the commission, i cannot help asking you to spend the remaining months of your presidency in being a really active president of the commission and to focus your work on the commission and not on the internal political conflict in your own country, italy. on 17 and 18 june the european union summit will take place, and, mr president, perhaps it would be sensible for us to meet again with the conference of presidents after the elections, perhaps on thursday afternoon, the 17th, to discuss how we are going to organise the whole procedure. i say this as a suggestion that we should think about it together. in conclusion, the commission and the european parliament are allies. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. we in the epp/ed group will stand by them and we call on the commission to cooperate closely. if that is guaranteed, we will also succeed together for our european union. in this sense, good luck to the new members of the commission in particular! we're on your side. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a fine tradition for the group chairmen to thank the outgoing president very warmly, and that is why i have asked to speak, as have the other group chairmen. for the group of the european people's party and the european democrats, it is not a matter of duty, but a heartfelt word of thanks from the heart and from the mind. you are a person, mr president, dear pat cox, who combines vision and pragmatism, and you are a person who is deeply imbued with political and personal fairness. you combine the best traditions of your country, the republic of ireland, with our european conviction. you will always be one of the great presidents of the european parliament, and you were fortunate to have had the presidency at a happy time: the time of the debate on the constitution and the admission of 10 new states to the european union. one work remained unfinished, as you mentioned: the statute for members of parliament. it will be our duty, and the duty of those who are re-elected, to carry out this task of completing a statute immediately after the election of the new parliament. mr president, you can be proud of the way you have conducted this office with duty and dignity. we all have reason to thank you very much, and i do so personally. i wish you all the best for your personal future and for all that you will do in your life. i wish you all the best from our group. (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. the commission is not thank you very much for allowing me to speak again. i should like to say a few words to the honourable members on the appointment of the members of the european court of auditors. we have, in the committee on budgetary control, as required by the rules of procedure, followed a procedure based on the treaty provisions which state that the professional qualifications and, above all, the complete independence of the members of the european court of auditors must be regarded as the supreme law. ten members stood for the written questionnaire, we received the answers and the corresponding cvs, we held public hearings for each proposed member individually and then we consulted behind closed doors, only among the members of the committee on budgetary control. in order to include the new members who will be joining this parliament from 1 may, since the applicant countries are now legally full members of the european union, we held the vote in the committee on budgetary control on monday, 3 may. i am going to make this clear and explain why we have this report before us. we are voting on nine separate reports, secretly, on the reports of the committee on budgetary control with its recommendation on the candidates. it has been shown that the vast majority of the candidates have also found the approval of the majority in the committee. two candidates out of the ten did not achieve this majority, one of whom - the cypriot candidate - withdrew his candidacy following a letter from the council. the slovak candidate remains, but unfortunately he did not win a majority in the committee on budgetary control. i would like to make it quite clear that we have a great responsibility when we vote on the reports of the committee on budgetary control, because the members of the european court of auditors are appointed for six years. there are no transitional periods as in other institutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also all done behind closed doors. i thank all the members of the committee on budgetary control for their very laborious and very responsible work and i now present these reports. i would add one more wish: after all this diligent procedure, it would be desirable that one day the european parliament would not only be consulted but could give its consent to the appointment of the members of the european court of auditors. (applause from the centre) i have two announcements to make: the translations of the report in a number of languages - which have now been corrected - printed a wrong vote by the committee on budgetary control. mr molnár was included in the decision as a 'yes' voter for danish, french, hungarian, lithuanian, maltese, portuguese and swedish. meanwhile, all versions except for hungarian have been corrected to and this was the situation at 11.21 am. i would therefore ask you to ensure that the committee on budgetary control does not present uniform voting results, but that there is actually a different vote, as i have said. as this is my last appearance in this parliament, i should like to thank everyone in the chamber, including you, mr president, for a fantastic cooperation, for a very exciting time, and to wish each and every one of you a good future. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am sure that i have prepared the voting list correctly for my group, but there have been some questions. i would therefore ask you to make it clear to all members that we are voting on the text of the report, as mrs theato has just said, with regard to the corrected version for different language versions. so we should confirm once again that we are voting on the texts of the reports.
- that's the end of our agenda. i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. for the purpose of transmitting the texts adopted at this part-session - date and place of next part-session: see minutes. (the sitting was closed at 12.59 p.m.)
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate president borrell on his election. his previous experience is a guarantee of a useful and fruitful presidency. this is a major undertaking, since the president must direct the work of an institution which, precisely because it has been directly elected, will be the one most affected by the effects of enlargement, the adoption of the constitution and the great international tensions which are shaking the world today. this assembly will be, even more than in the past, a place of debate and decision-making, and it will have to ensure an ever-increasing democratic participation of the citizens of europe. i would just like to emphasize the exceptional moment in which this parliament elected its new president. we have seen how complex the constitutional reform was, which was approved only a few weeks ago after a close and difficult debate. the result was not a foregone conclusion and i welcome it enthusiastically, but it has given rise to a decisive role for parliament in the ratification campaign which will open immediately and which will be one of the most difficult tasks we will have to face. finally, i would like to mention enlargement, another undeniable success of the union. the tenacious negotiation and the prevailing common interest have enabled 25 states to share their hopes for the future. i also recall, with less satisfaction, the low turnout in the european elections. although all the surveys show that europe is increasingly seen as necessary in the face of major challenges, we still have to bring the institutions closer to the daily lives of european citizens. this is a very important task for parliament. as in the previous legislature, the commission and the european parliament work closely together to promote the common interest, and this is one reason for their alliance, which is formally expressed in the european parliament's vote of confidence in the president of the commission. my commission has made every effort to develop this cooperation, thanks also to the framework agreement and the daily work to put it into practice. i would like to thank president cox again for being an absolutely cooperative and open partner. the results of our work in codecision and in other areas are exceptional and unprecedented, and i am sure that this cooperation will continue with the new commission, which will be called upon to consolidate and develop the results of these years. the commission and parliament must work together to give a new impetus to the process of european integration, with the fundamental aim of continuing the process of enlargement and the constitution. mr president, allow me to say a final word of thanks to your institution, with which i have worked for five years. without the stimulus of parliament, without its control and without the deep political debate, even if sometimes bitter, we would certainly not have achieved this enormous amount of work. these have been years of important achievements that have translated into tangible benefits for citizens and a stronger hope for our common future. mr president, i wish you and the new parliament a very good day's work.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mr president, you are now the president-elect of the european parliament and the president of all the members of the european parliament. on behalf of the group of the european people's party - european democrats, i would like to congratulate you warmly and wish you success in your office as president of the parliament, because if you succeed, it is a success for us all. i would like to say a word of respect and esteem to bronislaw geremek, whose life's work i personally and our group hold in the highest regard. thank you, bronislaw geremek, for what you have done for poland and for europe. (applause from the centre) i would also like to pay my respects to mr francis wurtz, although i did not agree with the content of his speech today. but, mr wurtz, you are always an honest partner, even in the conference of presidents, and i appreciate you as a man. i believe that it is in the interests of this parliament that we continue to work together in mutual confidence despite all the political differences. i would like to add a comment, ladies and gentlemen: no group, including the largest group, the epp-ed, with 268 meps, has a majority in the european parliament. and so it's a very normal experience, a very normal political process, that majorities have to be sought. in the last parliamentary term, from 1999 to 2004, we as the epp-ed group reached an agreement with the liberals, with graham watson, with whom i have generally worked well, and i hope that we will continue to do so in the future. but, dear friends, it would not be in keeping with the static and the balance of the european parliament if one liberal were to be followed by another liberal and the second largest group in this house were to be completely excluded from the office of president for twelve and a half years, at least twelve and a half years. that is why we, the epp-ed group, have concluded this agreement with the socialist group and have given you our support. let me make one final remark: we in the european parliament, and i see here romano prodi, whom we have generally supported, although it has sometimes been very difficult, have a great interest in stability in the european institutions, and that is why i am calling on everyone, after we have taken this decision today, to vote for josé manuel durão barroso on thursday, and thus to show that we also want stability for the european commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the cause and the quarrel in the cause will remain, but the stability of the institutions is important. in one we are united in defending democracy, in defending the law, in working for solidarity and peace in our united continent, that is our common task. i wish you every success in this, mr president.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. there are good days in life, even in the life of parliamentary groups. it is a beautiful day for our group and in moments of success it is necessary to think of those who are not part of that success. that is why i am addressing the other candidates first, to you, mr geremek. i believe that i can speak on behalf of all the social democrats in this house when i say that i am proud to work with you and that it is an honour for the european parliament to have you as a colleague in our house. (applause from the centre) the only thing we can say about francis wurtz is that we agree with him 100% on what he said about mr bush's policy. (applause from the centre) unfortunately, we were unable to give him the votes. nevertheless, i would like to thank you for your excellent and collegial cooperation. i have nothing to add to the description of mr poettering in this form. (applause from the centre) i have three wishes for you, mr president, and for mr borrel: the first good wish is that everything you have planned for your office and your administration may be fulfilled. such a post always involves great pressure, including personal pressure. i hope with all my heart that you will be able to bear and endure these burdens to the extent that you have chosen to do so. the second point is that you are no longer the president of the social democrats. you are the president of all the members of this house. i can assure you that if you have to take decisions in this sense - even if we social democrats may not share them in detail - we will always be loyal to the decisions of the president of the whole house, who comes from our ranks. a third point: we are proud that after ten years a social democrat - and what a woman - is at the head of this house. i am sure that the commission will be able to give you the information you need to make your decision. good luck and congratulations! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is a minimum number of ticks to be placed on the ballot paper for it to be valid. again, is there a minimum number of names that must be crossed out for the ballot to be valid, or is every crossed out number - 2, 3, 4 or 8 - the ballot always valid?
council. a uachtaráin borrell, a uachtaráin prodi, a chomhaltaí onóracha de pharlaimint na heorpa, agus a dhaoine uaisle. tá an-áthas orm a bheith anseo inniu ag an gcéad seisiún iomlánach den suí nua de pharlaimint na heorpa. ba mhaith liom an deis seo a ghlacadh le comhghairdeas a dhéanamh le gach comhalta nua ó na fiche cúig ballstát den aontas eorpach ar a dtoghadh an mhí seo caite i bhfeidhmiú an ghnímh daonlathais osnáisiúnta is mó riamh sa domhan. is maith an rud daoine a bhí anseo cheana a fheiceáil in aontas le daoine nua a bheith i láthair. (president borrell, president prodi, honourable members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to be here today at this first plenary session of the new european parliament. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all members, from across the twenty-five member states of the european union, on their election last month in the greatest supranational exercise in democracy that the world has ever known. it is good to see familiar faces and new faces alike.) mr president, i see that some members are having difficulty receiving their irish language interpretation. perhaps when irish is fully recognised in europe we will have one difficulty less. i am very pleased to be here today at the first plenary session of the new european parliament. i would like to take the opportunity to congratulate all members, from across the 25 member states of the european union, on their election last month in the greatest supranational exercise in democracy that the world has ever known. it is good to see familiar faces and new faces alike in this new parliament. i would also like, president borrell, to congratulate you on your election to the post of president of the european parliament and to wish you well. in ireland, and particularly as outgoing presidency, we are very conscious of the crucial and constructive role played by the parliament in the work of the european union. during our presidency we enjoyed an immensely cooperative and mutually supportive relationship with the european parliament, which was an essential element in the realisation of many of our presidency goals. i wish you every success in the exercise of your office over the coming years. i have come here today to report on the outcome of the june european council and on the work of the irish presidency of the council for the first six months of 2004. before i do, however, i want to outline the two key principles which underlined ireland's presidency and indeed underpin ireland's general approach to european affairs. the first and most basic principle that informed our approach was that europe must work ­ and must be seen to work ­ for its people. too often, the debate on european issues can drift into a world of jargon and theory. in doing so it runs a real risk of losing the attention and, in due course, the support of its citizens. the european union is not a matter of theory. it has and will continue to make a real difference to the lives of its citizens. without it, europe could not have recovered from the devastation of the world wars. without it, europe could not have created a vibrant single market and a strong and stable single currency. without it, we would not have had the frameworks of social and environmental protection which are the cornerstones of the european model. and, of course, without it we would not have been in a position to embrace and support the europeans who have suffered half a century of totalitarian oppression. we all need to focus on making the new enlarged european union relevant and responsive to our citizens. to do so we need to focus on that which unites us rather than that which divides us. we need to focus on the key concerns of the citizen: jobs, social and environmental protection, peace and security. they have been the ingredients of europe's success. they must remain at the centre of our attention as leaders, legislators and europeans. the second principle that has underpinned our approach to europe has been the principle of fairness. whether you are large or small - as ireland is - rules matter. the fair, even-handed and transparent application of those rules matters even more. the european union has created a zone where the concerns of all can be respected, the identities of all can be strengthened and the fundamental interests and rights of all can be protected. it is essential that the traditions of equality, fairness and cooperation that have been the keystones of the european union be reinforced in the new enlarged union. when i addressed this house in january, i set out five main areas of work for the irish presidency. we wanted a speedy and successful outcome to the work of the intergovernmental conference. we wanted a successful enlargement and we wanted to progress the ongoing enlargement negotiations. we were determined that the spring european council would help to revitalise and reinvigorate the lisbon strategy. i reported comprehensively on this issue to parliament in march 2004. in the justice and home affairs area we wanted to deliver on the commitments made in the amsterdam treaty and in the tampere programme. last, but by no means least, we sought to give renewed coherence and impetus to the european union’s external agenda. one of the main issues on our agenda, and one on which, i am delighted to say, we had a successful outcome, was the nomination of the new president of the european commission. josé manuel durão barroso played a full part in the search for the next president of the commission. it was only towards the end of the process that he allowed his name to go forward as a candidate for the position. i was therefore very pleased that the european council by consensus agreed to propose mr durão barroso as its nominee for president of the european commission. at such a crucial time in the union's development we could not have found a better candidate. he is a man who is prepared to lead and is able to take decisions. he is a committed european and has a deep understanding of the interests of all member states, large and small, old and new. i have no hesitation in recommending him to you. i am also delighted that it was possible to reach agreement on other important appointments. javier solana, who has been outstanding in his present functions, will continue in the post of secretary-general of the council, and pierre de boissieu will continue as deputy secretary-general. on the entry into force of the european constitution, following its ratification in every member state, secretary-general and high representative solana is set to become the union’s first foreign minister. a particular highlight of our presidency was, of course, the agreement we reached on a new constitution at the intergovernmental conference on 18 june. this was the culmination of more than two-and-a-half years' work that began with the laeken declaration in december 2001. the new constitution is a tribute to the commitment and political will of all of the participants in the european convention and the intergovernmental conference. today, nonetheless, i want to pay a special tribute to the work of the european parliament. throughout the process, in the european convention and the igc, parliament has shown a deep sense of commitment to the european union and to the citizens whose interests it directly represents. the convention outcome in particular - the great bulk of which was unaltered in the intergovernmental conference - reflected much that was brought to the table by the representatives of this parliament. i am conscious, too, that in the course of the intergovernmental conference the same positive, flexible and constructive attitude was struck throughout. i want to acknowledge especially the hard work that was done to find solutions to issues of particular concern to parliament, and which was essential to finding an overall agreement. a final deal would not have been possible without the assistance and commitment of parliament. i want to express my warmest thanks to you all, in particular to mr brok and mr hänsch and, of course, the former president of the european parliament, mr cox. they gave enormous help, assistance and commitment to me and mr roche, my minister for europe, who is with me today. we deeply appreciate all their help. you will all be more than familiar at this stage with the contents of the constitution. i would still nonetheless like to highlight some of the features that make it such a positive step forward for the union. we have succeeded in setting down clearly in one single document what the union is and what the union does. we have defined a set of values and objectives that we can all share and which make the european union unique across the world. we have enhanced the democratic legitimacy of the european union by extending the powers of the european parliament. we have also strengthened the role of national parliaments and opened the council of ministers to more public scrutiny. we have clarified the division of powers between the union and the member states. it is now clear how decisions are taken, and who is entitled to take them. the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality have also been strengthened. we have incorporated the charter of fundamental rights as an integral part of the constitution. in a significant advance in the area of human rights, the union's institutions and the member states when implementing union law will be bound by the charter, and the union's citizens will have the right to legal redress if they feel their rights have not been upheld. in addition, the union is to accede to the european convention on human rights, which will help to ensure consistency between the courts in strasbourg and luxembourg. we have agreed an institutional framework that fully respects the rights of all member states in all of the union's institutions. each member state will nominate a member of the commission until 2014. at that time a move will be made to a smaller commission with members from two-thirds of the member states selected on the basis of absolutely equal rotation, unless the european council decides unanimously to fix a different size. we have thus provided the basis for an effective commission into the future which, i know you agree, is of crucial importance for the union. the principle of double majority voting, enshrining the dual nature of the union as a union of states and citizens, will be implemented in a way that respects the concerns of all igc participants and enhances the efficiency of decision-making. the new team presidency arrangements bringing three member states together to implement an agreed programme will help the council to become more effective and efficient. the new permanent president of the european council, foreign minister and external action service will enhance coordination and allow the union to play a more effective role in the wider world. these are all remarkable achievements, which many would have believed impossible at the outset of the convention process. i thank all those in the convention, all those who helped us, my good colleague the president of the commission mr prodi, his colleagues who worked so hard to help us in our work, and, of course, mr giscard d'estaing, who was the president of the convention. work is now getting under way to prepare the text for signature by heads of state or government on 29 october in rome. following signature, attention will focus on ratification, which is intended to be concluded at the latest by 1 november 2006. some member states will hold referendums, others will ratify the text using parliamentary procedures. irrespective of the choices made by member states, it is incumbent on us all to explain what is in the constitution, and why it will be so beneficial for the union, the member states and especially our citizens. the questions posed at the european council in laeken in december 2001 - how to make the union more effective and efficient; how to prepare it to play a more effective role in the wider world, and how to bring the union closer to its citizens - have been well answered. our new constitution will equip us to meet, with confidence, the challenges that the union is facing as it continues to widen and deepen. the union has undergone a lengthy and exhaustive process of treaty change in recent years. it is now time for us to have the confidence to see the new constitution as the union's bedrock in the same way that the treaty of rome has served us so well over the course of more than half a century. our focus must now turn fully to formulating and implementing those policies our citizens expect of us. as our union enlarges, continuing to be able to take decisions that will serve the needs of our people will be critical. the new european constitution will enable the union to engage constructively with the future challenges and opportunities that it will face. during our six-month term as presidency, ireland was honoured and privileged to welcome 10 new member states into the european union on 1 may. we marked the occasion by a formal and symbolic ceremony - a 'day of welcomes' - in dublin. this was a truly historic moment for the european union. it was a moment of great opportunity and hope for all the people of europe. of course, the enlargement process did not end on 1 may. we are delighted to have achieved substantial progress in negotiations with bulgaria and romania. the european council noted with great satisfaction that bulgaria had provisionally closed negotiations in all outstanding chapters. in addition, romania made significant progress, provisionally closing negotiations in three chapters of the acquis. as an example of a very concrete step towards accession, work has just commenced, under the dutch presidency, on the drafting of the accession treaty. we encourage both countries to maintain and accelerate their efforts and look forward to their accession in january 2007, if they are ready. the june european council welcomed the significant progress which turkey has continued to make in the reform process, and the sustained efforts of the turkish government to meet the copenhagen political criteria. the union has reaffirmed its commitment that, if the december european council decision on the fulfilment of the political criteria is positive, accession negotiations with turkey will be opened without delay. this decision will be taken on the basis of the commission's report and recommendation. it will be taken in an objective and transparent manner. also in june the european council decided that croatia is a candidate for membership and that negotiations should begin early in 2005. our presidency had responsibility for managing the initial phase of negotiations on the future financial perspectives which will determine funding for the union from 2007 to 2013. our aim was to examine the commission's ideas in detail and to offer feedback to the commission in preparing its legislative proposals. this we did, and the june european council found the report we prepared to be a useful contribution. in june we also agreed to reach political agreement on the dossier next year. the focus of our presidency in the justice and home affairs area was on the delivery of commitments under the amsterdam treaty and in the broader tampere programme for the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice. the last six months saw very substantial progress. we adopted the asylum qualifications directive and achieved political agreement on the asylum procedures directive. the two cornerstones for a common asylum system are now in place. we moved the agreement on establishing a european border management agency forward. this is a significant measure in the effort to fight illegal immigration. we also reached political agreement on the admission of third country nationals for studies and related purposes which recognises the positive contribution that legal migration makes to the union. we worked to facilitate better access to justice across borders for citizens of the union, adopting, for example, the victims of crime directive to ensure compensation to victims of violent crime. 2004 marks the end of this five-year tampere programme. in june the european council agreed that the time had come to launch the next phase of the process and the commission will now prepare proposals for consideration in december. in the related area of terrorism, and in the aftermath of the appalling terrorist attacks in madrid, the march european council adopted the declaration on combating terrorism. in june we noted the significant progress made in implementing the measures set out in the declaration and the work of the european union counter-terrorism coordinator. the next steps are now mapped out in the revised plan of action, which was also adopted in june. in the external relations area we sought to give renewed coherence and impetus to the european union’s complex external agenda guided by the european security strategy adopted by the european council last december. i believe that our efforts in this area were very successful. we emphasised effective multilateralism, conflict prevention and the development of a european security and defence policy. we worked to strengthen and develop key partnerships, including the transatlantic relationship, on the basis of our shared interests and values. we worked hard to ensure that the millennium development goals, with their strong emphasis on poverty eradication and sustainable development and the hiv/aids pandemic, were given the high focus that they deserve. many of you in this parliament follow closely a range of external relations issues which are of particular interest to you and your constituents. you know, therefore, the progress that has been made during the past six months and what remains to be done in many challenging areas. across the range of issues - be it the transatlantic relationship, the european union's engagement with africa or the need to strengthen our relations with russia and with asia - we can report real and lasting progress. we have circulated a report on ireland's presidency of the european union to each member of parliament which sets out the key developments in the external agenda for our six-month term, as well as developments in relation to the union's internal agenda. i will be happy to respond to your queries in the debate that follows. it has been a challenging and rewarding six months for us all. at the beginning of the presidency, when i addressed this house, i said that our overall objective was to secure outcomes that would have a positive impact on the lives of europe's people. i strongly believe that, with the successful enlargement of the union, the agreement on the european constitution, the good progress made over the last six months on the lisbon agenda and justice and home affairs, as well as in our relationships with key partners, the union has made a great step forward. we must all continue to work to communicate better with our citizens so that they can become better informed and engaged in relation to developments within the union which affect their daily lives in so many positive ways. i have no doubt that the netherlands presidency will be as successful as we know it will be challenging. like parliament, i wish it well. the theme of ireland's presidency was 'europeans working together'. during the last six months, i believe that the council and the european parliament have worked together in an exemplary way. the experience has left me firmly convinced that, working together cooperatively - as member states and institutions - we can build a better europe and contribute to a fairer, more secure and more peaceful world. it is a great honour for me to report on the six months of the irish presidency, but it is not just on the six months, because in any presidency there is a lead-in of about a year. thus, for the last 18 months i have been dealing with the leaders of the groups in parliament. i wish to thank them for the time they gave to me and their visit to dublin in december 2003. they gave me very good advice. throughout the presidency both minister cowen and minister roche in particular were here many times. courtesy was shown to all my colleagues. we were determined to work closely with parliament, to give it a lot of time, listen to its views and to reflect that through the institutions and our work. the experience has been enormously rewarding. it is a challenge for a small country. we do not have 800 officials to bring to european council meetings, nor three planes. we do not have an enormous bureaucracy. we have ambassador anderson and her people, who worked very hard in brussels for us, and our people who worked here in parliament. it adds up to a small team and thus we got to know so many of the people here personally. for that reason, i wish to say how delighted i am to be here today, to thank you for your cooperation and to wish the new parliament well, in particular the newly elected members. they start an exciting part of their own political careers. i wish to say to the returning members that i hope we in ireland can keep up the good relationships that we have established. in particular i wish all my irish colleagues of all political persuasions well for the six months ahead. lastly, as i said at the outset to you, president borrell, you have a difficult job - a very demanding task - both within parliament and internationally. i wish you every success with it. (loud applause)
president of the commission. mr president, mr taoiseach, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the new president on his recent election and i am pleased to see the elected members of parliament from all the member states finally gathered in parliament in an enlarged assembly. the new europe is being felt for the first time in this house, and that is an exciting and significant fact. our union now needs the instruments to decide and to act. this is in line with what the taoiseach has just said about the achievements of the irish presidency and, above all, the results of the european council. i congratulate the irish presidency, and bertie in particular, and his collaborators, on their diplomatic skill, political sense and great dedication to the european cause. firstly, the intergovernmental conference concluded last semester with the agreement on the european constitution. as is well known, the last part of the constitutional process is always the most difficult and the irish presidency has guided the conference with respect for everyone's views and attention to detail. it has proposed innovative solutions, without losing the balance of the whole, and has convinced all parties that this is both a strong text and a serious and realistic compromise. in other words, this constitutional treaty is the best possible agreement today. we must not underestimate the work of the taoiseach who has personally taken the trouble to overcome the obstacles in the most sensitive areas. looking back over the last five years, we must note the extraordinary developments in our union. when i first spoke in this house on 5 may 1999, the treaty of amsterdam had just entered into force. at that time, no one thought we could have a new constitution. yet today, not only its reality, but its necessity seems obvious to us, and the reason is simple: the constitution enables the union to function more efficiently in the interests of our citizens. the constitution strengthens democracy, transparency and accountability. it contains our values and principles and provides a sound legal basis for our policies. i would like to stress that it includes the charter of fundamental rights and introduces the principle of double majority for decisions taken by the council by qualified majority. no one claims that this is a perfect constitution. the commission, as you know, would have preferred stronger powers for the union in certain areas, such as economic governance in particular. in this respect, i welcome the recent judgment of the european court of justice which clarifies certain rules of the treaty and the stability and growth pact. unanimity is still required in areas such as taxation, own resources, the financial perspective and, in part, social policy and foreign policy. however, the constitution is clearly a great step forward on the road to european integration and in the near future we must all work together and focus on the ratification process. voters will be asked to express their views on the constitution in many countries through referendums. whether it is a popular referendum or parliamentary ratification, this is the moment for clarity of position. in the coming months we will therefore have to explain to the citizens what the union is and what it is not, why we need to make it work properly and what the new rules are. we must have a thorough debate on the constitution and what it means for the future of europe. we must ensure that referendums or parliamentary votes are not merely a reflection of the political situation in each member state, but that they give a conscious and thoughtful response to real issues at european level. the real issue, as i said, is europe itself, because to reject the constitution would be a huge setback for the process of integration. i am afraid that national issues will obscure the real issues of the european debate and that short-term interests will end up undermining the progress we can make with the constitution. this means that we must first of all ask the right questions in the national debates in each country. in particular, i want to respond to a criticism that has been circulating for some time, according to which the constitution would be a step backwards in social europe. i have to say, it's not. the constitution maintains the union's common policies essentially unchanged, but it creates a framework within which the institutions can act in the common interest with greater care. this applies both to measures relating to the internal market and to social policy. i would remind you, honourable members, that the constitution also goes a few steps further. full employment and social progress become the union's objectives and gender equality and the rights of minorities are recognised as values common to the member states. it also states that the union is to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion and solidarity between member states, that the union formally recognises and promotes the role of the social partners at european level and facilitates their dialogue in full respect of their autonomy, and that the union's trade policy must not impede the organisation of social services, education and health. finally, the value of services of general interest and their role in promoting social and territorial cohesion is recognised. the constitution as a whole is therefore more ambitious, more coherent and more comprehensive than the current treaties, including in the social field. these are essentially political points, not technical, and we must continue the political work to move in this direction. the level of attention to social europe is increasing among our citizens and a more political union will therefore serve to consolidate it. i therefore call on all members to ensure that the citizens know what the real issues are when we have to ratify the constitution. voting yes to the constitution also means voting for this different framework of social europe. the constitution is certainly a historic achievement, but it is not the only decision taken by the last european council. among other things, i would like to mention the recognition of croatia as a candidate country. this decision confirms the union's will to offer the troubled countries of this region of our continent a prospect of accession. now that the council is satisfied that croatia meets the copenhagen criteria, negotiations can start as early as the beginning of 2005. the government of macedonia has also submitted its application for membership and is making a determined effort to have it accepted. in the area of justice and home affairs, the action plan on combating terrorism has seen much progress, but also some uncertainties. progress is being made on the tampere programme, but it must now enter a new phase of implementation. the council also called on the member states to complete the implementation of the measures linked to the lisbon strategy. this is a complicated area where the steps and progress made are not enough and, above all, do not correspond to the expectations we had in lisbon when we approved this chapter. finally, i congratulate the irish presidency on reaching agreement on the name of josé manuel durão barroso, which was unanimously approved by the council, an agreement which i regard as a masterpiece of democracy and politics. i also welcome the decision to appoint javier solana as the union's foreign minister once the constitution has entered into force. i would like to extend my warmest congratulations to josé manuel durão barroso and javier solana and my sincere thanks to bertie ahern and her colleagues.
mr president, taoiseach and former president of the european council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i would like to begin by expressing my warm thanks to the irish presidency on behalf of the epp-ed group. you have been very effective, very efficient and very sympathetic in your presidency. taioseach, you spoke with joy during your lecture, during your speech. i think europe needs to be happy, it must be fun to take this europe forward. the irish presidency has been a great success and i would like to personally thank you, the taoiseach of ireland, the former president of the european council, and also your minister for europe, dick roche, on behalf of our whole group. (applause from the centre) we had a happy time, and the former president of the european parliament, pat cox, is sitting there now, and that is something to get used to. i hope that we will have the opportunity to work together again very intensively, and that your presence here today shows that the european passion will continue to accompany you. and once again, a heartfelt word of thanks for your great work as president of this parliament. it will be remembered forever. (applause from the centre) i would like to mention another irishman who may not be known by everyone, especially by the new colleagues. but you know him, our former colleague and friend joe mccartin, who was a member of this parliament from 1979 until this european election, and who was the only member of our group to be awarded the robert schuman medal. we also need people like joe mccartin who do their duty every day, because only colleagues who do their duty every day can help you succeed with us in the end. (applause from the centre) mr president-in-office of the council, you have spoken of a great exercise in democracy. our continent is so complex and so difficult in its diversity that it is a daily exercise to keep it all together. and if you are a group leader, you have a special experience in this. you said europe must work. but the most important thing is, and we have heard this with gratitude, that in europe we have overcome totalitarianism and dictatorships and that democracy unites us. and this is the great european project which brings us together across party lines. (applause from the centre) you mentioned the intergovernmental conference. i would like to say on behalf of the european people's party that for us the european constitution is the priority of priorities. we should say publicly, even more than we have done so far, that this will not only strengthen the european parliament, but also the national parliaments and thus parliamentarism and democracy in europe. i think we need to emphasize this even more. the council of ministers is becoming more transparent. we would naturally also have liked to see the preamble refer not only to europe's religious heritage but also to its christian-jewish heritage. unfortunately, that has not been achieved, and we regret that. but many of our common values are found in the preamble and in the charter of fundamental rights, so we say yes to everything, and in rome, this great european city, where the treaties of rome were signed in 1957, it will be signed. you mentioned the nomination of two personalities. that is one of the great ideals, and ideals can only be realised if europe, as you said, also functions in the end. you mentioned - and we shall discuss this with him this afternoon - the former prime minister of portugal, josé manuel durão barroso, whom i knew as leader of the opposition and then as prime minister. he hasn't changed. often, when someone goes from opposition leader to prime minister, the person changes somehow. it has remained the same, and i can only congratulate you on suggesting it. if he becomes president of the commission, i am sure he will be successful in his duties. but we are also grateful that you have proposed javier solana, who has done a great job in political and human terms in recent years, as high commissioner again and then as the first foreign minister of the european union. i think these are two excellent proposals which we must also see in context. i would like to conclude by saying something that has been bothering me for a long time. i'm not blaming you. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be able to accept it. this is not right! the summit of heads of state or government is a community institution and two important presidents, the commission and parliament, cannot be left on the sidelines. you should be in the centre of the family picture with the president of the european council. i would like to say this to those responsible in the general secretariat of the council. the minutes express a symbolic attitude. we do not want an intergovernmental europe, we want a community europe. you have served him, and for that we want to thank you very much.
mr president, taoiseach, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the irish presidency has been active in many areas, not all to the satisfaction of my group and not all with success, but i have the pleasure now of congratulating you, mr taoiseach, on behalf of my group, on your historic and excellent role as president of the intergovernmental conference in the creation of the european constitution. it was your clever, firm, unemotional mediation over the last six months that made this igc a success. it was your success, taoiseach, and the success of your team. i also express my personal thanks to you for the way in which you have involved the two representatives of the european parliament in the intergovernmental conference and the president of the european parliament in the work of the intergovernmental conference. you know, we've had some difficult times. but the fact that we survived it, and survived it successfully, is also, and especially, thanks to you. the commission has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the treaty is fully implemented. you know that as well as i do and as many others do. yes, we had to make compromises, and some of these compromises were difficult for us - as representatives of the european parliament - but also for the governments in the member states. i am sure that some of the compromises have been difficult for you as irish prime minister. it is also true that some of the simple solutions we found in the convention have been complicated by a large number of additional protocols and declarations, limitations here, exceptions there. the great achievement of the intergovernmental conference must not be obscured by this. public attention in recent months has focused on a few contentious points, but more than 90% of the draft convention has been adopted by the igc in almost unchanged form, without discussion. i am not counting the words, as our former president of the convention did, that is nonsense or, i don't want to put it too harshly , that is something childish. no, i see that the structure, the coherence and the substance of the draft constitution from the convention have remained intact. this is the first major success and it also confirms the convention method that has been used. the second is democracy, and there are also some things to complain about. but i also think that the european parliament has become a fully equal legislator, that the election of the president of the commission will be carried out in future not only in the light of the european elections but also in accordance with a consultation mechanism before the nomination of the candidate, and that is a success. taoiseach, you know that we, as representatives of the european parliament, had to draw a red line in the future budgetary procedure. i am personally grateful to you for ensuring that we did not cross that red line, but that we found a viable, good compromise against all those finance ministers who wanted to change and make the european parliament's budgetary law worse. (applause from the centre) the european union's capacity to act and its transparency have been strengthened. let me say two more general sentences. we know that this is not the constitution of a european state. it is the constitution of a union of citizens and states, and these will always be more than just the länder of a federal republic of europe. the union is not a copy of the european nation state of the late 19th and early 20th centuries at european level. it is something special, and that is why we do not listen to those critics who always compare us to the american constitution and say that this draft constitution is too complicated, too long, etc. this is not fair. we must measure the constitution against what is necessary for europe. the constitution must be judged by its ability to put the union of 25 different peoples and states in europe on a common foundation, which for centuries have been attacking each other with robbery, murder, war and devastation. the constitution must be judged by its ability to bring together 25 or more european states and peoples, all of whom want to preserve their own identity, their language, their culture, their historical memory and whose political destinies are linked by a common constitution. the fact that we have achieved this, taoiseach, ladies and gentlemen, is a great historic achievement in the history of the european union. the irish presidency has played a prominent role in this. it is now up to the peoples of europe, through their parliaments and through referendums, to make the constitution a political reality. my group, the pse group, will be taking part in this and we will ensure that europe gets a constitution to take it into the new century. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! ireland has taken over the presidency in a difficult situation. the historic enlargement of the european union, the adoption of the constitution and the elections to the european parliament took place during your time, mr president of the council. i am particularly concerned about the low turnout in the european elections, although of course this was not primarily a problem of the irish presidency. we in the house in particular should learn from this with all our might, rather than simply lamenting this sad state of affairs over and over again. the fact is that more and more citizens are losing their trust in the european union, because the community is not there for them and because it does not give them an answer to their daily concerns. according to eurostat, about 70% of people in the european union wanted the issue of unemployment to be at the centre of european politics and election campaigns, but in fact it was a national issue and the eu's institutional debates were dominated by chinese. this cannot go on! yes, the future is primarily about a social europe - you are right, mr president of the commission - but it is important that we not only talk about it, but that the european union finally acts, and only actions count for the citizens. the ratification of the constitution now offers an opportunity to have an intensive debate with the citizens on the future of the european union. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i think he's right. what is possible in france or in britain must also be possible in my country, germany. i therefore urge all of you in this house to make a strong effort to ensure that constitutional referendums are held in all the member states of the european union and that, above all, this intensive dialogue on the future of the european union is held with the people. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! i think mr allister has already made a wonderful contribution with the phrase he used: 'i am against the european institutions but i am for europe sending a lot of money to northern ireland'. i think that is not the understanding we are allowed to have here. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, i come from a region where, like mr voggenhuber, we were converted to christianity by an irishman, saint boniface, whom we call the apostle of the germans. but i hope you will not end up like boniface, who was beaten to death by the frisians, who are now largely dutch. it is, of course, a pure coincidence that we now have a dutch presidency. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you, with all my heart, you, the taoiseach, your team, dick roche, the foreign minister, but also some of the people i see in the second, third and fourth rows of your team here, who have made it possible with tremendous commitment and expertise that we have a european constitution. and with that, ireland made history. this is a constitution which does not bring about a superstate, but rather a balance through the allocation of powers, the role of national parliaments, which practically avoids this. there should be a fair balance between the levels. the citizens have a role to play here, because they are given rights by the charter of fundamental rights, and so in future the game of the commission president, as we have seen this year, can no longer take place, because the citizens decide who becomes president of the commission. these are crucial improvements that we're going to get. there will be a canon of values; it is a miracle that 25 countries agree on a set of values which are binding and, in my view, based on the christian concept of humanity. on this basis we shall really make policy together on a canon of values and not just have a mechanistic process, as the old treaties provided for. the ability to act has also been achieved. ladies and gentlemen, it is important that we all return together to our member countries and ensure that ratification takes place. we should not, as in some of our countries - including my own - have discussions about what is the most favourable thing to do in party politics, in domestic politics, or how to make a name for ourselves. i hope that our governments and also the opposition in all our countries will have the strength to go into this ratification process with responsibility for the whole and not with the view of how they can best present themselves in the domestic political game, partisan. that will be our task now. (applause from the centre)
president of the council. president, members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen,i am very pleased to present the priorities of the dutch presidency to you, the directly elected representatives of the european citizens. as members of the european parliament, you hold one of the most beautiful and important offices in the european union. it is not for nothing that parliament is the first institution mentioned in the treaty. you are the guardian of the quality of our community, which is above all a community of values. you have been given a fine commission by the citizens of europe. i wish you every success in this endeavour and i congratulate you on your election. i would like to congratulate mr borrell in particular on his election as president of the european parliament. i also wish you every success in this important position. although we have different roles within the european union, we also share many things. the most important thing, i think, is a great sense of responsibility. for europe, for the substantive dossiers we want to take forward, but above all with regard to the people of europe, for whom we are all doing this. i would like to thank the irish presidency for the great job it has done. bertie ahern and his team have delivered a fantastic performance. a successful enlargement with ten countries, an agreement on a new european constitution and a common choice of a truly excellent candidate for the presidency of the european commission. those are sound results. the irish have also set an inspiring example in their contacts with the european parliament, which we are happy to reflect on. let me turn to the european council's nomination of josé manuel barroso as president of the european commission. a proposal that you will debate this afternoon and tomorrow. i see barroso as a man of dialogue but also as someone who is not afraid to set a course. the council feels that this is the man who can give direction to the commission at this time. someone who can join with others to push for economic growth and increase security. we therefore hope that the european parliament will approve the proposal tomorrow. ladies and gentlemen, around my office in the centre of the hague there is a beautiful open-air exhibition going on right now. young visual artists from the countries of the european union have been asked to create a work inspired by the european quest for peace and justice. it's called "art, the great communicator". from my study, i can see some of these works of art. what image do they give of europe? one work shows europe as a maze. another like a tower under construction. a third like a drowning man trying to climb out of the water. there are many different ways of looking at europe. how does the european citizen see europe? if we look at the turnout in the last elections, the public does not see europe as a work of art to be very, very warmly received. for the fifth time in a row, fewer europeans turned out to vote. there is a general lack of confidence and doubt among certain groups of citizens in the european integration process. the european project is being closely monitored, both outside and inside the european parliament. the dutch presidency is fully aware of this. but critical voices are part of a democracy. they can make a democracy stronger. there is no reason to be pessimistic. on the contrary: it is now time to show the european citizens that europe is theirs. a work in progress. not perfectly. it's subject to improvement. but it is valuable and - as history has taught us - it is very necessary to tackle problems that no country can solve alone. that is what makes the european union worth contributing actively to. the dutch presidency wants to send that message with a vigour. with ambition in the heart and realism in the head. cooperation with you is of the utmost importance. whether you are one of those who see europe as a maze. or like a tower under construction. you all represent the views of the european citizens. it's about them. we want to work with you to take concrete steps that citizens will recognise and accept. i realize that the coming period is a time for you when innovations must be made concrete. the european parliament has been enlarged to 732 members. 162 representatives from the 10 new member states have joined parliament and must find their way. political families change their composition and add new members. it is gratifying to see you taking up your duties with determination and pursuing the legislative activities of this parliament with energy. there is more innovation to come. the new constitution considerably increases the european parliament's influence on decision-making and the conduct of affairs in the union. the national parliaments will also have an important role to play in answering the question of whether european legislation is necessary in specific cases. the union will thus become more democratic. the citizens' voice will be heard louder and stronger under the new constitution. the new constitution also improves the situation of those who are critical of european integration. the dutch presidency welcomes the extension of the european parliament's powers. this is one of the main strengths of the new treaty and therefore also an important argument in the national debates on approval. the adoption of this directive will be accompanied by vigorous discussions in a number of countries. i hope that the facts will not be weighed against the images. the new constitution will undoubtedly bring the union closer to its citizens. is that not what we all want most? it is particularly in this time of renewal that it is important to stay the course and ensure that we continue to make progress for the benefit of the european citizen. without proper cooperation between the council, parliament and the commission, this cannot be achieved. the dutch presidency would like to work constructively with you. and we hope with all our hearts that you will also cooperate constructively with us. the presidency, like many in this chamber, regrets that the lingering problem of the statute for members has not yet been resolved. the previous president worked very hard on this with your support, but no result has yet been achieved. if there is any prospect of a solution, the dutch presidency will certainly cooperate in that regard. it is not possible to cover all the substantive issues on the agenda within the scope of this presentation. i shall therefore confine myself to those issues which require our joint attention in particular. without wanting to prejudge future presidencies, it is clear that we must dare to look beyond 1 january 2005. we are well aware that objectives must be achieved over a series of years. the dutch presidency is a link in a chain. that is why we are trying to create the best possible conditions for the work of the next presidencies. the dutch presidency will always seek to take account of the longer-term interests. if we want to give something of ourselves to the union, it is a future orientation. internally, by working towards consolidating the enlarged union, sustainable economic growth, security and a solid financial base for the years ahead. externally, by looking ahead together with our partners elsewhere in the world and acting more effectively as a union on the world stage. firstly, the consolidation of the union. the ten countries which joined on 1 may this year must be able to feel at home in the union as soon as possible. this is a particular responsibility of the presidency. we will do our utmost to ensure that the new member states can participate fully in all the union's working processes as soon as possible. at the same time, we want to lay a solid foundation for future enlargements. the accession negotiations with bulgaria have recently been completed. those with romania are at an advanced stage. the accession negotiations with croatia will start next year. and in december the european council will consider whether turkey meets the political criteria of copenhagen in the field of human rights and democracy. if so, accession negotiations will also be opened with that country. the decision-making process must be fair, according to the rules of the game to which we previously committed ourselves with full conviction in 2002. that means: the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we must not be guided by fear, for example of islam. the european community of values does not want to impose restrictions on a particular religion. our resistance should not be directed against religions but against individuals and groups who abuse their religion to enforce their will by violence. (applause from the left) islam is not the problem. muslims, christians and people of other faiths can live together very well. the problem is not religion, but the misuse of religion to sow hatred and intolerance and to oppress women. this does not change the fact that the decision on turkey is very much concerning and disturbing to many. the presidency wishes to make it possible to reach a well-founded decision, one which is supported by all and which will remain firmly established in the future. the second theme on the agenda is also about looking to the future: sustainable economic growth. the european economy is gradually recovering from a period of stagnation. but recovery is slow and difficult, because of the underlying weaknesses in our economic structure. the european economy is stiff-necked and uses its head too little. that's why our competitors are outsmarting us. if we look at developments objectively, we see that europe is losing ground even in times of economic recovery. we should not keep our eyes on our own jobs, our own social safety net, our own pension. but on the job, the social safety net and our children's pensions. how strong will europe be in a few decades? can our children and grandchildren build a good life in europe? can we then continue to put our values of solidarity and social justice into practice? please note: these are not things to be taken for granted. look at the rapid development of countries like china and india. is europe strong and flexible enough to cope with this competition? it is against this background that we must give the highest priority to the implementation of the lisbon strategy. the preparations for the mid-term evaluation of these will be made during the dutch presidency. a working group led by wim kok is currently preparing a report on what we have achieved so far and what remains to be done. this report will be presented to the european council on 5 november. europe is missing out on considerable opportunities. we are not getting what is in our internal market. the services market in particular is still subject to a variety of national barriers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. we are not thereby exploiting the power of the single market. if we know that 1.8 per cent of european gdp and 2.5 million jobs are currently due to the functioning of the internal market, then we have every reason to strengthen and extend the internal market towards the services sector. the services directive proposed by the european commission is an important step in the right direction. it goes without saying that the rapid adoption of this legislation can be a major support for the european economy. the functioning of the internal market can also be improved by less and better regulation. we need to make the rules work for us instead of us working for the rules. the irish, dutch, luxembourg and united kingdom presidencies have jointly given priority to this. much of the ambition of the lisbon agenda will have to be achieved within the member states. labour markets need to become more flexible and social security systems more active. pension systems need to be built on a stronger foundation so that future generations can build on it. in the global economy of today and tomorrow, europe must not only have its flexibility, but also its knowledge. europe's capacity for innovation is not strong enough. let me give you one example. some 400 000 european scientists are currently working in the united states. they make up 40 percent of the american scientific community. a massive exodus of people that we ourselves so desperately need. that is why we must continue vigorously to improve the knowledge environment in europe. one of the concrete measures is the creation of a european research council, aimed at making risk capital available for research. (applause) our ambitions are not just about economic growth, but also about sustainability. the dutch presidency will work to strengthen the environmental dimension of the lisbon process, with particular attention to sustainable mobility, clean technology and international climate policy. (applause from the left) the union is more than an economic project. it is also still a project of freedom, solidarity and mutual respect, 60 years after d-day. of the intangible matters that citizens are particularly concerned about, security is the most important. the increase in security has always been a driving force behind european cooperation. once upon a time, there was a shaky peace on a war-torn continent. now, new threats are forcing us to act. terrorism and organised crime. threats that we can only master together. it is essential that we continue to look forward together. with the tampere programme coming to an end, new steps are needed to further expand the european area of freedom, security and justice. the dutch presidency is seeking to ensure that the european council of 5 november sets out as concrete a perspective as possible. in a free europe with open internal borders, it is inevitable that we will align our criminal justice systems and that our cooperation will be watertight. the union must not offer legal and geographical hills of refuge to criminals who abuse the freedom that europe offers them. and sometimes we'll have to leap over our own shadow. countries are sometimes very attached to their national tradition in the area of policing and justice. but without further coordination in these areas, we remain at risk of criminals breaking the dance and endangering our security. the european counter-terrorism coordinator gijs de vries last month outlined how europe can more effectively stop terrorism. the dutch presidency intends to work diligently on the elaboration and implementation of the proposed action points. the dutch presidency will also prioritise a new european drugs strategy for 2005-2012. this will focus on the joint approach to large-scale drug trafficking, but also on better prevention and health care. there can be tension between freedom and security. neither can ever be absolute. it's all about finding the right balance. we must also find that balance in the area of asylum and migration; the european council will be discussing the tampere follow-up to the european council of 5 november. we do not want to create a fortress europe. but we also see how hectic the dynamics are of incoming and transit asylum seekers and illegal immigrants. smugglers make unscrupulous use of it. we also know from experience how much is involved in providing newcomers with full opportunities in our society. so controlling migration flows is necessary, and we can only do that together. in a union with open internal borders, we cannot avoid a european policy on asylum, migration and return. as foreseen in the tampere programme, we are entering a phase of further harmonisation. our aim is to establish a common asylum system and to provide better protection for refugees in their regions of origin. we must fight illegal immigration together, on the basis of solidarity between member states. we cannot do that without effective surveillance of our external borders. the external border control agency is crucial to this. we must now ensure that this can be operational by 2005. europe is a place for all who are entitled to it. by "place", i mean much more than a shelter. it's about a place in our society. we want to pay more attention to the integration of newcomers. member states have their own traditions in this area. there must be room for that. but i think we can learn more from each other's experiences. a credible asylum and migration policy also requires the return of those who have no right to stay here. the dutch presidency has the task of making progress on the return policy before the end of the year. this includes joint return procedures and operations and the establishment of return and readmission agreements. the last important item on our internal agenda that i would like to mention is the financial basis for the coming years. in 2005, the negotiations on the next multiannual budgetary framework of the union will be finalised: the financial perspective. this is a sensitive subject. there are many different views on this. the dutch presidency sees it as its responsibility to structure these extremely complex negotiations as well as possible in advance, by agreeing guidelines and principles for the negotiations this year. it'll make it easier to get the job done. the european parliament will of course be closely involved in the preparation of the adoption of the new financial perspective. a union that looks to the future also looks to the world around it. our future is closely linked to that of our neighbours and our partners elsewhere in the world. we are a union of 25 developed countries. a community built on the values of freedom, solidarity and respect for one another. and the largest economic bloc in the world. the world rightly looks at us with a look of expectation. are we living up to those expectations? europe could be more effective. we could achieve more if we all came together and spoke with one voice. the major global issues of our time are the fight against terrorism, the promotion of human rights and democracy, economic development and the fight against poverty. in these areas europe must make a single, powerful voice. the european security strategy provides an excellent basis for this, not least because of the broad vision it contains. it is more than the development of own crisis management capacities. the dutch presidency will work in all possible ways to implement the security strategy. the united nations is the heart of multilateral cooperation and must remain so. the netherlands, as president of the european council, will play an active role in the debate on the reform of the united nations. the multilateral trading system will also need to be given a further boost. after the failure of cancun, we have a chance this year to make real progress in the wto. everyone has a stake in this. the latest enlargement has brought not only new members to the union but also new neighbours. we feel strongly about them and want to deepen our relations with them. this also applies to the countries of the 'greater middle east' and the mediterranean. the dutch presidency intends to work towards increasing stability in the region and promoting reforms in the political, economic and socio-cultural fields. the barcelona process must be deepened and intensified. the dutch presidency will devote a great deal of time to the middle east peace process. europe must unite in its contribution to the future of iraq. we will do so in the light of the central role of the un and in response to the wishes and needs of the iraqi government and people. in recent years, the importance of our relations with asia has increased considerably, both economically and politically. the dutch presidency will continue to shape the strategic relationship with our partners in asia during the planned summits with china, india, south korea and asem. we will also pay particular attention to the sensitive issue of human rights. one in seven people on earth is chronically hungry. in africa in particular, poverty, conflict and epidemics are causing deep wounds. the european union is not abandoning africa to its fate. the situation in darfur/sudan is the most obvious. the eu must remain active in this area, both as a donor and in a political sense. we are putting pressure on the sudanese authorities to improve the situation and will not hesitate to increase that pressure if they do not take enough action. the union will continue to work on combating hiv and aids and on conflict prevention in africa, also outside darfur. ladies and gentlemen, every time is a time of transition. that is also true of our time as president of the european council. the european union is faced with a paradox in our time, in 2004. on the one hand, we see the dream of the founders of the european union come true. the european countries have dared to join their destinies. and have brought about reconciliation, stability and prosperity. well, in hindsight, that's a great accomplishment. on the other hand, it is becoming increasingly clear that this cooperation and sense of belonging is no longer a natural part of the experience of many people. it seems like we're having a harder time identifying the common denominator. it's like we don't see clearly what connects us most deeply. that's something to think about. the union is intensively working on its enlargement. the builder must be careful to keep the foundation on which he is building firm. otherwise, the entire structure will be compromised, with all the dangers that this poses to the occupants. against this background, the netherlands is taking the initiative to launch a debate on the meaning of european values in 2004. the fact that these values are enshrined in the constitution is not enough. they must also live in the minds and hearts of people. in concrete terms, we will be holding a number of conferences and launching initiatives to stimulate the debate on europe with the citizens of europe. we hope that this will help to raise awareness among european citizens of what it means to be european. the special value of europe lies in the fact that we are a community in which freedom, solidarity and mutual respect are balanced. the agenda i have presented to you is based on these three fundamental values. freedom of speech: that means working on security and deepening cooperation with our partners in the world. solidarity with the other countries that means working for economic growth and social cohesion, for future and current generations. respect . this means working towards understanding and mutual commitment in the enlarging union with all its differences. ladies and gentlemen, the european union is not perfect. but that's no reason to write her off or to be careless with her. it's not criticism we should fear, but indifference. criticism is good. without criticism, there is no improvement. but indifference is not going to help us. in fact , i 'm not . it undermines what has already been achieved. the dutch presidency would like to cooperate constructively with you, the directly elected representatives of the european citizens. perhaps i can give the floor to one of these european citizens at the end. a major dutch newspaper is currently publishing a series of portraits of ordinary europeans and their views of europe. one of them is ilma kaulina. she's a 39-year-old graphic designer from riga. her husband is a bus driver. they have three children. ilma kaulina does not see europe as a panacea. she's being critical. but she does have expectations. she says: the european union can give us a better life. if you put cultural differences in the background, you will find that together you have a perspective on a better social and economic future. in time, all obstacles will fade. let me summarize our commitment. the dutch presidency will do everything possible, together with you, to ensure that ilma kaulina from riga is not disappointed. (applause from the left)
president of the commission. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, this beginning of the dutch presidency is a good time to reflect on the achievements of these years and, above all, on the commitments which await us in the near future. later this house will hear from the president-designate of the next commission, josé manuel durão barroso, and together we wish the new president every success. in this new phase it will certainly be essential to ensure full and close cooperation between the three institutions, while respecting the prerogatives of each. cooperation between the three institutions is a matter of primary importance, especially as new institutions are being built. in these five years we have done well, we have achieved a great deal and we are leaving behind a completely new institutional structure. it has been a great privilege to lead this college and its personalities form an extraordinary team of value, of which all european citizens can be proud. the greatest achievement of these five years was the final breaking down of the wall that had divided the continent for half a century. on 1 may, a political masterpiece was achieved and the union was able to express the strength of its model and the values on which it is based more clearly than ever before: the european union is a great example of this. i am convinced that enlargement has improved the security situation and the growth prospects of the union, which, as prime minister balkenende said, are the main concerns of the dutch presidency. in the wake of this success, we must look to the future by completing the unification of europe and opening the door to the balkans. the macedonian government has already applied for membership and is moving with determination along this path. for croatia the journey has already begun. the other countries will follow at their own pace, but the commission will never fail to support this process which really completes the european framework. since the beginning of my mandate, i have been saying that only the european union can guarantee stability and lasting development in this part of our continent. only the european model can help these peoples so close to us to overcome the old divisions and the old tragedies. with the new neighbourhood policy we have found an original and realistic formula for proposing a new model of ever closer relations with our new neighbours, creating a ring of friendly countries throughout the region from morocco to russia. the launching of the creation of a new large political, economic and human region was one of the major strategic objectives of this commission. today, this objective is a political reality. during these five years, the commission has also promoted the economic and social renewal of the union and has worked to ensure macroeconomic stability. the most important action was undoubtedly the introduction of the euro. the single currency has already fulfilled its promise of stability and in these difficult years for the world economy, economies have shown themselves to be well able to withstand external shocks. there has been no exchange rate shock, no public finance crisis, not even in the difficult times of the last few months, and inflation has remained low. think what would have happened if we had not had the single currency. finally, we must remember that the mandate of this commission saw the birth of the text of the first constitution for europe, which i have already spoken of at length this morning. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if the euro, enlargement and the constitution are the most visible achievements, we must not forget the other achievements of this commission. i should like to mention, without listing them all, the extraordinary work done on state aid and the management of the stability and growth pact. in this work the commission has remained true to its role as guardian of the treaties and has ensured absolute equality of treatment for all the parties concerned, large and small countries. we can discuss the rules we have set ourselves, we can see how to change them, how to make them more appropriate to the new economic reality, but it is the commission's duty to apply the existing rules impartially, pursuing only the common interest. i cannot help recalling the continuing work of building the internal market, in which we have often had to overcome the resistance and lack of cohesion of the member states. but thanks to this work, european consumers today spend less on flying, connecting to the internet and making payments from one country to another in the union than they did five years ago. it should also be added that there is no genuine growth in the european project unless it involves all the regions of the union. this action has, over the years, considerably reduced the differences in income and development prospects between the regions of our territory. this is an exceptional fact because usually in large economic aggregates if you do not provide strong policy, the richer areas get richer and the poorer areas get poorer. of course, more must be done in this direction in the future, especially to meet the demand for solidarity from the new member states. moreover, while the euro provides financial stability, our future growth depends on the renewal of our economic system as envisaged by the lisbon agenda. as you know, this is still a sore point because the results are not up to expectations, but i assure you that the project would have been completely stranded without our constant pressure on the member states. we are almost at the end of the strategy projected for the whole decade and much remains to be done. i thank prime minister balkenende for his commitment to this path, which is still the one that has produced less favourable results than we hoped. the commission has, however, laid a solid foundation for the final success of the operation. as the lisbon agenda is based both on the renewal of the economy and on the creation of a truly competitive knowledge society, we have substantially increased, for what we could afford, funding for research, education and training in europe. together with the projects for the creation of networks of excellence, we leave to the next commission our proposal to double the community research budget over the period 2007-2013, thus setting an example of a strong choice for all member states. as far as education is concerned, one of the highlights of the mandate was the day when the millionth university student went abroad to study under the erasmus programme. one million is an extraordinary figure and by the end of the decade we will triple that. the removal of these barriers will help to create the knowledge society, but it will also help to raise a generation of genuine european citizens, since mobility and european citizenship are closely linked and it is by focusing on young people and students that we lay the foundations for the union of tomorrow. i am therefore very pleased that the dutch presidency is making mobility and young people one of its priorities. the same concept applies to the external borders. it is essential to make full use of the external dimension of european policies relating to education, training and youth. for this reason, this commission has launched university cooperation and exchange programmes with the mediterranean, the balkans and central asia. the latest addition to this family is erasmus mundus, a crucial programme which will bring thousands of students from all over the world to our universities and will serve to restore europe's leading role in research and higher education. this is precisely the objective that balkenende outlined earlier, without which europe will not be able to achieve the lisbon objectives. after having recalled some of the achievements of this mandate, honourable members, let us look at what remains to be done until the end of october. firstly, we will continue to prepare the new financial perspectives. as you know, last week the commission adopted a legislative package which follows the political programme adopted last february. the strategy is simple: we have first defined the political priorities for the period after 2007 and then put on the table the framework of the minimum financial resources needed to achieve these objectives. we have therefore focused on the content and the political objectives and not just on the financial aspects. i am satisfied with the great work done because we are up to the new tasks which the european council has given to the commission. in 2007 the union will have over 100 million new citizens, and yet our proposal leaves the current ceiling of own resources unchanged, because, thanks to strict, indeed very strict, budgetary discipline and careful planning, we can even bring the union's member states to 27 by spending on average only 1.14% of gross national income. the reality is that europe can really make a difference, but if the financial resources are lacking, european added value will be zero. we have prepared our proposals with the aim of maximising the efficiency of community spending by demonstrating, chapter by chapter, that one euro spent at european level is worth more than one euro spent at national level. otherwise, we didn't make any offers. the union's priorities, as the european council has repeatedly stated, are competitiveness, european citizenship and europe's role in the world. we have taken these decisions very seriously and we have the task of finding the appropriate resources in the community budget for their implementation because they are tasks which have been entrusted to us by the european council. all the institutions - the commission, the council and parliament - have a common duty to honour their commitments and to respond to the expectations of the citizens. if the european union fails to deliver on its promises, it is bound to lose the confidence of its citizens. after 1 may 2004, we continued our efforts to achieve european unification. the negotiations with bulgaria are technically over. as regards romania, i intend to do everything in my power to bring the negotiations forward as quickly as possible, thus respecting the commitments which - i must remind you all - provide for the conclusion of the negotiations in 2004, provided the country is ready. at the beginning of october the commission will adopt the report and opinion on the opening of accession negotiations with turkey, which will form the basis for the council decision next december. i accepted without hesitation the mandate given to me by the european council in december 2002 to present this report on turkey's compliance with the copenhagen political criteria and to express an opinion on it. it is too early to reveal the contents of this report, but i can only say that we are gathering analysis, facts and testimonies in a 360-degree manner. i can assure you that we are doing a job which is absolutely thorough and objective. this total impartiality is due to our governments, to our citizens and to the turkish people who aspire to join us and also to the people of europe. ladies and gentlemen, i have opened this speech by explaining why i believe that the college i preside over leaves a strong legacy and a renewed and vigorous institution. i have given you some reasons for this and there are many more. the commission is not, however, confined to the college. i would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to all the women and men who every day make our institution live and grow, often in the face of misunderstanding and lack of knowledge. in brussels and at the other european commission offices, i have found levels of excellence, competence and dedication that are the envy of many national administrations. this will be one of the fondest memories of my experience as president of the commission. all of us, commissioners and officials, believe in europe and believe that the union is the only way to ensure that the continent has a future of peace, prosperity and autonomy in the world. that's our real strength. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! mr president, we in the epp-ed group warmly welcome you, your minister for europe, mr nicolai, and your colleagues. the netherlands has always been committed to european unification. that is a great prerequisite for the success of your presidency. i can also say that the dutch delegation, led by our young colleague mr camiel eurlings, is doing an excellent job in our group and will give us the necessary impetus so that your presidency will of course have the necessary support from us. (applause from the centre) the most important task we face is a rather political and psychological one, namely the internal completion of the enlargement of the european union, and that we develop an understanding between the twenty-five countries, between the ministers in the council of ministers, between the peoples, that we are willing to learn from each other, to approach each other, and if we have this respect, this respect, that will also be a great success, i am sure. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration. this is crucial whether a referendum is held or whether parliamentary bodies decide, as is the tradition in some countries. this has to be a success, and you're that important link in the chain you've been talking about. you spoke of the single market. i can only strongly support you in continuing to complete the internal market and in continuing to achieve this research area, which you have mentioned - and the president of the commission has also mentioned it. we must ensure that young scientists stay in europe, that they have a perspective here and that they do not emigrate to the united states or to other countries. this is a priority for the completion of the internal market. you spoke of enlargement. the turkish question is a controversial issue for us, but it is important that the criteria are respected, that there is no political opportunism and that - if there are to be negotiations - that alternative forms are also considered, for example a privileged partnership with turkey. you mentioned the financial perspective. we are in favour of setting up a committee here in the european parliament to deal with these questions, and i would like to remind you that it is not only the ministers in the council of ministers who are responsible for the financial perspective, but we are also involved on an equal footing and we insist on our equality in these matters. let me address a formal or symbolic question: the question of the family photograph. i have already said this today to the irish presidency. we cannot accept that the presidents of parliament and the commission are always marginalized. we are a community europe, and the presidents of the institutions should be in the centre of that picture. you spoke of the values of europe. we strongly support your calling for some conferences on this, and this will also give us more hope for europe. you mentioned ilma kaulina from riga, who is now - i hope - being reported by all the european media, who believes in the future of europe. i firmly believe that if everyone does his duty, this continent has a great future. that is what you are working for, and our group wishes you every success in that. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. you have placed the lisbon process, mr balkenende, at the centre of your economic policy considerations, and my colleagues mr van den berg and mr désir will be giving a detailed account of this for our group. but one thing is clear: we want the lisbon process to be a social process. if economic renewal and the fit-out of europe, which is indispensable if europe is to be a global player not only economically, but also to succeed, then it is only possible to do so by preserving the internal cohesion of society. and for that, you need social stability. social cohesion is an indispensable part of the lisbon process. if you make this the focus of your efforts during your presidency of the council, then you will have us socialists in europe on your side. (applause from the centre) i would like to make a second comment on enlargement. we must look at enlargement in two steps. we must now discuss bulgaria and romania, which are knocking at the door of the union. there are clear commitments that we need to talk about. and when we talk about fairness, we are talking about fairness towards both countries, towards bulgaria and romania. we european social democrats insist on this, there must be no gradation. and it's about fairness to turkey. i know that you, mr. balkenende, are a good connoisseur of german history. the commission has already made a number of proposals. "pacta sunt servanda" was his favourite saying in vilshofen, later in passau. contracts are binding! we cannot make promises to a country like turkey for 40 years and then say, when it comes to the oath, that we did not mean it. if the european union is to be credible internationally, it must keep its promises. this means that if the criteria are met, then accession negotiations must be opened. i repeat, if the criteria are met, (applause) the two go together. and islam is not the problem, quite the opposite. if we succeed in reconciling a muslim society such as the turkish society with the values you have mentioned, namely freedom, solidarity, fraternity, the primacy of the political over the military, respect for human rights, the abolition of the death penalty, the freedom of the judiciary, if we succeed in proving that islam and the western value system are not mutually exclusive but are compatible with each other, then the thesis of the bin ladens of this world would be refuted. we must not be too quick to jeopardize the security gains which europe could achieve by this. i do not know whether turkey will become a member of the eu, but to deny it the chance would be fatal. (applause from the centre) mr balkenende, i was very interested to hear that you are going to put the fight against terrorism and a new drug policy at the centre of your efforts. we welcome that very much. the fight against terrorism also requires that the european union institutions set up for this purpose are able to function. i am therefore telling you as president-in-office of the council, not as prime minister of the netherlands, that you are not responsible for the fact that the european institution created to combat terrorism, europol, has been without a director for months because two member states cannot agree. this is a scandal. we expect this to be completed during your presidency. the european union must be able to take action against terrorism, and we must be able to do so. what we are not prepared to accept is that in the fight against terrorism, the basic values that we stand for and that you have quoted, such as freedom, justice, fairness in dealing with each other, are thrown overboard. i do not think it is acceptable that the high representative of the european union has not yet spoken about guantanamo, that is unacceptable. if europe wants to talk to the united states on equal terms, then we must tell the united states that this is not acceptable. (applause from the centre) it is not acceptable, by the way, for many things, but if we want to pursue a sustainable policy, we need kyoto. if we want to make the world a safer place, we need the international criminal court, not special immunities. if cancún has failed and we want to seize a new opportunity, then we need cooperation with the united states of america just as we need cooperation with kyoto and the international criminal court. perhaps the american voters will give us a lucky break from november. it would be desirable. but that the european union should be able to defend these values and thus also the ratification of kyoto and fair world trade vis-à-vis our largest partner in the world, is what i expect, mr balkenende, from the prime minister of a country which has always stood for these values. if you take that to heart, you will have us social democrats at your side in your presidency of the council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by extending a very warm welcome to the new president of the council in the european parliament on behalf of the cdu/csu delegation and assure him that we will support him if he needs parliamentary support. the first few minutes of this debate have already shown that the subject of the european union's relations with turkey will play a major role. the relationship with turkey is of fundamental importance to us. turkey is a reliable and important partner for us. we must make this quite clear, and that means, mr president-in-office, that we must not restrict or reduce this relationship to membership but also keep other options in mind. the newly elected chairman of the socialist group has now announced that negotiations with turkey will be opened if turkey meets the conditions in the autumn, and he has acted as if it were a mystical secret at the moment whether turkey meets the conditions, which will then be revealed by the commission in its report in the autumn. this is not the reality, of course, but everyone in this chamber knows that turkey does not at present meet the conditions for the opening of negotiations. this is already evident from the still decisive role of the military in turkey. this is clear from the problematic situation - and this is a benevolent understatement - of the rule of law in turkey, to mention only these two conditions. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i am afraid that it is an act of very problematic representation, if not hypocrisy, to say that we will resume negotiations when the conditions are met. are you seriously going to tell us that this is the case in the autumn? i can't really believe that. that is why the honest approach to turkey also includes the fact that nobody will release the bears to us in the autumn, that they will already meet the conditions and that we can negotiate with them. and it is part of that that the question of negotiations, if they should be opened, does not automatically lead to the result that they should be opened, but that they are open and honest. mr president-in-office, it would be very important for you to take this point into account in your work. the second point, which is important, is that the people of europe, as we know, have shown considerable reservations about us in the elections. we cannot now - according to berthold brecht - freely elect new citizens in europe, but we must live and work with those who already exist. i am convinced that we must therefore seize the opportunity of the constitutional debate to bring europe closer to the citizens of europe. the constitutional debate offers a unique opportunity to do so. it is the duty of all of us to implement this constitution and to bring it closer to the citizen. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to point out that our group has two candidates for the quaestors' post. this is my colleague james nicholson and my colleague godelieve quisthoudt-rowohl. other applications do not have the support of the bureau or the group chairman.
president-designate of the commission. mr president, dear josé, my warmest congratulations on your election. i wish you and the institution you preside over every success.
mr president, mr candidate for president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen! our group of the european people's party and european democrats welcomes the unanimous proposal of the heads of state or government of the countries of the european union that josé manuel durão barroso should become president of the european commission. the candidate, mr durão barroso, said that he was from portugal, which we all know, a country on the outskirts of the european union but in the heart of europe. i am very pleased with this formulation, because it starts with the fact that we are europeans because we are at home somewhere. and being european does not mean that we abandon our home and our fatherland. no, everything is connected, and that is why it is important that people who aspire to responsibility also acknowledge the country from which they come. and if it is in the heart of europe, at the centre of the european union, then it is a commitment to the common work of european unification, for which we want to succeed together. this europe - and we heard this morning from mr jan-peter balkenende, president of the european council - is a europe of values. and these values are in a ratio and in a balance. you have described this balance, freedom, human rights, democracy, law, solidarity and social justice. and if you take these values seriously, you must necessarily assume that the president of the european commission is not dividing, but uniting. it is not the case that the european parliament has a right to be consulted on the matter, but that it has a right to be consulted on the matter. they have committed themselves to a strong and independent commission, including the leadership, but working as a team to develop the proposals, and that is what we want. we no longer want the impression that the president of the commission plays only a subordinate role in the summits of the heads of state or government, but we want the president of the commission to play the leading role in the summits of the countries of the european union, together with the president-in-office of the council. (applause from the centre) we're trusting you with this. they also know that the commission can only be strong if it has the support of the vast majority of the european parliament. you are the guardian of the treaties as the european commission. there must never be an opportunistic approach to european union law, because then we are lost. and that's the first principle of leadership for a president. you said that you would also dismiss a member of the commission who misbehaved. that was our agreement with romano prodi five years ago. and it was further agreed that the members of the commission, including the president of the commission, would be accountable to parliament whenever parliament so requests. i do not want to get into a debate about whether the commission is a form of government. but mr candidate - i do not know how to address you properly, if not as a candidate for the office of president of the commission - we expect from you, if you are elected - as our group hopes and will do everything to make this happen - but we expect from you as president-elect to appear before the european parliament when it asks you to do so, as a national head of government naturally does before his own national parliament. we expect that of you and all the members of the commission. (applause from the centre) and we will continue to monitor the situation in this respect, even if the commission is finally confirmed. you spoke of a partnership for europe. i think it is very important that we are real partners across party lines, across national lines - and this is especially so now that ten new countries have joined the european union - and that we offer something, above all, to the younger generation. for the young generation that needs a good education, that needs to be well trained if we are to achieve the lisbon objective of being a truly competitive location in the world. that is why we must give young people on our continent a chance. you have committed yourselves to the principle of subsidiarity, and i will not go into that because my time is limited, but i would like to remind you once again of this young woman mentioned by jan-peter balkenende this morning, ilma kaulina in riga, who said that she believed in the future of europe. ladies and gentlemen, we all share the same belief in the future of europe, and so let us give this candidate, who is at the heart of the european union with his country, a chance so that tomorrow we can say that we have a new president of the european commission.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. much has been written in advance about your candidacy. a lot has been written and discussed about packages, about collusion, whatever. a lot of it was wrong. one thing in particular was wrong: the statement that you were the epp candidate was completely wrong. the name of the epp candidate was patten, and he was not chosen. you are the council's candidate, and as such, we are considering you. we must ask ourselves, as members of the european parliament, what our relationship is to you in the present situation. we see ourselves as a parliamentary group which is free and unfettered to consider whether you are the right candidate for the office of president of the commission and to consider under what conditions it should make its decision whether you are or are not. we have invited you to join our group and have asked you questions in a very detailed and open discussion. we have heard your statements today, and i pay my respects to them. and yet we must reiterate the questions we have had to you, not all of them, but focused on the essential elements of the task before you. are you the man who can shape the commission's relationship with the other institutions in europe to the extent that we as socialists expect? are you the strong personality who, when the constitution comes into force, would fight for it as president of the commission? are you the person who, in the context of the constitution, tells the 25 heads of state or government: 'here is the european commission in the interests of european integration; here is the european parliament in the interests of european integration; here is the european parliament in the interests of european integration; here is the european commission in the interests of european integration; here is the european parliament in the interests of european integration.' i'm supposed to represent their interests, and i'm not a former member of your club? are you the person who is driving the deepening of integration because it strengthens the role of the commission as the strong institution in the interinstitutional fabric of europe? the question we have to ask is: are you the right candidate, the man who can do the central task that we european socialists have, the task for which we fought in the elections for votes, the task for which we are bringing this parliament, namely to preserve the social europe, are you the man who can do that in the context of your future work? are you the guarantor that the commission will strengthen the social model of social europe - people for people, one for the other, social cohesion, and not everyone against everyone? are you the guarantor of strengthening this model in the commission, or are we in danger of having a commission president who says: i am using the windfall of globalisation to bury social rights which have been achieved in the nation state in europe? we must make this trade-off as social democrats. this is the crucial point for us, and we asked you about it and we have heard some interesting answers today. the question we must ask is: is the candidate fit to represent the european union on the international stage as we expect him to? do you support sustainable development policy? do you ensure that the european union develops a sustainable development policy? are you the man who, in the european union, is promoting a new start in cancún, a new start for all of us? are you the man who, as president of the commission, is committed to fair trade in the world on the level of equal partnership? do you support a resource-efficient energy policy? are you the man to formulate and develop europe as a value-based democratic model as an alternative to multilateralism and to present it on the international stage as an alternative to a stock market-based model of unilateralism? that's the question we're asking. are you the candidate who has met the united states on equal terms, for example, in enforcing these demands? these are the questions we asked you, and we're asking them today. the answer to these questions will be the basis on which our group will take its decision this evening. you have been asked many questions, some of which you have answered to our satisfaction, some of which you have not answered to our satisfaction. i can say that i have described this as something we will be discussing openly in the group this evening. i can't tell you the result until tomorrow. i want to make one thing quite clear, and this does not concern you as a person: the procedure on the basis of which you were nominated is unacceptable, and i think this is the last time that a candidate for the presidency of the commission has been nominated on the basis of this procedure. (applause from the centre) if the constitution becomes a reality, there will be a competition for this office, in which programmes and individuals representing those programmes will compete against each other in front of the electorate. we need the constitution to do all that. let me conclude by saying that no one can meet all the demands i have set out here 100 per cent, that is impossible - especially if he is not a member of the social democratic party of europe, which you are not. but you can get close to them. how close you got with your statements, we'll check. (applause from the centre)
the president was right, in fact, that catalan - and sorbian, for that matter - a language which is very close to my constituency in berlin - is not an official language, neither an official language of the european union nor a working language. but we can work towards making minority languages official languages as well, as long as we build the necessary capacity. mr poettering would be prepared to accept the berlin dialect of my home town as an official language. thank you for that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what is the vote tomorrow on? it goes tomorrow, and it has been said by many to our confidence. it's a matter of trust. do we trust the council's nominee to master the tasks that lie ahead of us for the next five years? we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. i want to make it very clear that i have confidence in the candidates and i am sure that a majority in this house can exercise that legitimate confidence. but i would also point out that the point is not to abuse that trust. is the candidate able to maintain his independence when it comes to putting together his team? i think it is unacceptable that there are member states here and there who have made their approval of you, mr barroso, conditional on their having certain wishes met when the commission's files are being cross-referenced, and i trust you to have the necessary independence to ensure that this does not happen automatically. you made that very clear today. we are now going to have a period in which we are no longer in a permanent intergovernmental conference but are trying to give political life to this idea of europe. and that is where we will of course have to work together over the next few months to develop the programme of work. i hope that we will be able to work closely with you and the european parliament on this, and i have confidence that we will succeed in this because we have many questions to answer together. subsidiarity: how can we give life to this concept, how can we ensure that regulations are only created where europe is really concerned and that the self-concept of the member states, the regions and the local authorities remains decisive? how can we help to strengthen competitiveness in europe? i would also ask the commission to consider whether, when you are in office, there are any proposals from the old commission which would be worth withdrawing. i would like to mention the keyword 'chemicals policy'. this is not compatible with the lisbon process of 'increasing competitiveness', and a rethinking of this would certainly be necessary. i want to call the keyword "budgetary order". we are suffering from the fact that we are no longer able to carry out what the legislator, parliament and council decide in the budget, because the budgetary regulation, the commission and the administration put so many fetters on us that the will of the legislator can no longer be fulfilled. we are expecting initiatives from you, and i hope that you will not abuse this trust, but that we will work together to ensure that europe is on the right track in the next five years and thus regains the trust of the citizens in five years' time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the european parliament must play a new role in this legislature. it is also set out in the draft constitutional treaty. it is generally said that this treaty will give parliament more rights. the european parliament, on a closer look, will only gain its role if it can rely on an absolute majority of its members in its work. this is particularly true of legislative work. only if parliament acts by an absolute majority does it play its part in the triangle of power between the commission and the council. this is the constitutional reality of this house. and from this we must draw political conclusions. in the past parliament has been torn between the council and the commission all too often because there were no firm majorities and because both the council and the commission could play parliament against each other. we are therefore convinced that we must make efforts to put parliament in a position and to make it accountable. that requires political cooperation in this house. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. because only then is there a numerical chance of a majority in this house. and that is why the unusual picture is that parties which in their domestic, domestic national reality are usually the natural antipodes - socialists on the one hand and christian democrats and conservatives on the other - are here attempting to cooperate on a specific occasion, which in many cases is met with distrust at home. but, ladies and gentlemen, we have a different political clock. i think we should not simply subject our own rules of decision-making to national consideration. we should have enough self-awareness to make it clear that we make political decisions differently from the national domestic reality of the nation state. that is why we are calling for the establishment of a firm majority, because only then can parliament play a role in the triangle of power between the commission and the council.
you naturally have the right to use the time available to you as you wish. however, you well know, as we all do, that irish is not a working language of the union. therefore our colleagues and mr barroso could not understand what you said, although it sounded very nice. you can work towards having irish as a working language of the union. we will see how successful you are, along with our colleague who spoke catalan yesterday, or my german colleagues who speak sorbian.
i appreciate that, but at council meetings the irish government will have to try to make irish a working language, alongside english. it is not a working language at the moment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are deciding today, with great responsibility, who will be the president of the european commission. our group, the group of the european people's party european democrats, welcomes the unanimous proposal of the european council to appoint josé manuel durão barroso as president of the european commission. (applause from the centre) our group also welcomes the decision of the european council, which also unanimously re-committed javier solana, who has done a very good job as high commissioner, to this task and to transfer to him the post of foreign minister of the european union in two and a half years' time, when hopefully the constitution will have come into force. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, those of us - and i am one of them - who have already had the privilege of working with josé manuel durão barroso in the past can say without reservation that he is qualified for this role of president of the european commission. but even if that was not the view that mr durão barroso expressed in the groups, in all the groups, yesterday and this morning in the european parliament, i must say to you personally that i am very convinced of the personality and the suitability of mr durão barroso for the office of president of the european commission. and i have not heard anyone in this chamber question the personal suitability of josé manuel durão barroso. he is knowledgeable, he is competent and, importantly for the european union, he is also able to communicate his convictions. i was also impressed by his willingness to work closely with the european parliament, and if we express our confidence in him today, it means that we will be critical of him - positively, of course - when he takes office, but we will also be monitoring the commission as a parliament. the candidate has presented himself as a bridge builder and an honest broker. this is a sign that he wants to contribute to a consensus. this european continent is so complex that neither side can decide or govern or prevail alone. europe has a future only if we take the path of consensus, of compromise in the end, together. josé manuel durão barroso is ready to do so, and that is why we as epp-ed are unanimous in our view that we should entrust him with this task and the responsibility of the office of president of the european commission. (applause from the right)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. mr durão barroso, we have had extensive discussions with you and have come to know you as a person whose integrity as a person is beyond doubt, and i would like to put that forward in advance of my speech. we've made the difficult decision i'm here to present. we have listened to you in our group, we have asked you yesterday and this morning in a series of speeches in which we have described our vision of europe's future and the role of the president of the commission in that future. we have heard your replies and have discussed them again in our group this morning, including today's replies. we have asked four crucial questions at the hearing, in my speech yesterday and again this morning, and we are waiting for answers. and we now have to answer for ourselves. is josé durão barroso the candidate who makes the commission a strong institution vis-à-vis the council, vis-à-vis the heads of state or government, vis-à-vis other institutions? the second question was, is he the candidate who is pursuing a sustainable environmental policy, a sustainable economic policy, a sustainable development policy based on fair trade in the world? the third question was: is he the candidate who is eligible for election by us social democrats because he represents the crucial element of socialist policy in europe, namely that there must be a primacy of social cohesion in this society, as president of the commission? we have asked ourselves these three questions, and i should like to conclude with the fourth. we have answered the three questions in the name of our group by saying no. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the fourth question was: is josé manuel durão barroso the candidate who can promote european values, above all the values of multilateralism, as opposed to a utility-oriented unilateralism? i would like to say something to you personally, mr josé durão barroso: if i had heard you say, even in a hint, "if i had had the information i have today a year ago, i might have made a different decision on the iraq war". i would have been more comfortable if i had only been able to give you a hint once, but you are being intransigent on this point. and so, in the question, are you the man who can bring the eu on an equal footing with, for example, other great powers, economic powers, political powers? but you owe us the proof. for most of us, you will remain one of the co-organisers of the azores summit. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. (applause from the centre) the way in which your election, mr durão barroso, has been politicised by such people has done you more harm than good, i want to make that clear. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the left)
commission. mr president, for many years the international civil aviation organisation has been looking at market-based options designed to limit aviation emissions and introduce the aircraft and operating practices that are best environmentally. the icao has been looking at three options: taxes on fuel or emissions, emission charges and emissions trading. unfortunately, under pressure from the united states, the council has decided to propose a resolution which recommends that the icao only pursue emissions trading and, therefore, disregard the other options. this is clearly contrary to our objectives. the commission shares the view that the european union must make the most appropriate use of all economic instruments for achieving sustainability in the aviation sector, as it does in other sectors. this means pressing to keep all options – taxation, emissions charging and emissions trading – open. this view was unanimously supported by all member states in the council, in coreper, when it was discussed in july. it is important that we keep all options open, not favouring any particular option at this stage, so that europe can decide on the best way forward, after further analysis, on the basis of realistic policy alternatives. since there is no certainty at present that any one measure will suffice, disregarding any option that might help limit the impact of aviation on climate change at this stage is not desirable. therefore, even though this will be difficult, the commission will work during the assembly to try to achieve a resolution that keeps options open. support from third countries is likely to be limited. the situation once again illustrates the isolation of the european union's position because it is not a full member of the icao and does not have the capability to influence the icao process from an early stage. it also calls for the closest possible cooperation between eu member states during the assembly if an acceptable outcome is to be achieved. ultimately, it may be necessary to maintain a european reserve, in order not to be politically committed to implementing such a resolution if it is unsatisfactory. this would not be unprecedented; it has been done in the past, notably for the hushkit dossier. the european position will, at times, be coordinated following normal procedures involving coreper. (applause)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the epp group considers that the oral question and debate on the forthcoming meeting of the international civil aviation organisation, initiated by the green group, were launched at the wrong time and with the wrong content. the request assumes that the united states will present a resolution at the icao meeting on 28 september 2004. this is already more than doubtful. the debate on emissions trading and government levies in space is based on a proposal from the icao council. the debate is also untimely, as neither the committee on transport and tourism nor the plenary can deal in detail with the details of the icao position paper. the internal discussions within the commission and, above all, among the relevant eu member states are also far from over. the issue of emissions trading and aviation taxes is far too complex for the european parliament to comment on without careful preparation. in addition, in the interest of passengers, european airlines should also be consulted on the possible impact on air transport and on their competitive position vis-à-vis third country airlines. this is all the more so as european airlines are already economically very much affected by the events and consequences of 11 september 2001 and the increase in oil prices. the european union's right to take autonomous decisions on these matters is indisputable, and we therefore regard the motions for resolutions tabled by the other groups as unbalanced and hasty, for the reasons i have outlined, and we will therefore reject them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that the time before the icao meeting at the end of september is exactly the right time for the european parliament to make its views known and for us to have a discussion about this, mr schmitt. the fact that aviation and the environment are sensitive issues is evident from the reactions of some airlines, but what is the point? we know that there is a connection between air travel and global warming; there is no dispute about that. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it is therefore essential to maintain options for reducing emissions, using environmentally-based, market-based instruments. so the point is that at the meeting of the international civil aviation organization later this month in montreal, the united states and others will not be closing doors. we are not talking about the introduction of emissions trading today or in the next two weeks, but we are talking about the potential possibility for the eu to make this possible in aviation in the future with market-based instruments in the area of emissions trading, and this is a position that the eu should remain open to. that is why, commissioner, in what you have said here, the commission has the full support of the majority of parliament for the eu to act as unitedly as possible within the icao. i think it is necessary and right that parliament should stress this again so that no doors are closed on the icao at the end of this month. the us must also understand that the eu behaves a little differently when it comes to the environment and aviation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. commissioner, i am very grateful to you for pointing out that all instruments are necessary to ensure climate protection and for qualifying the icao targets as being in opposition to all our targets set by the eu. i thank you again. i think this debate is taking place at the right time and in the right place, because we must do everything we can to ensure that this resolution, which is being pushed by the united states of america and other countries, does not win a majority at this conference in montreal. let me make three points. the first is the eu's self-determination over europe. the cause of europe is the cause of europe, and the european union, the commission and the council must decide on it and determine what is necessary for the future of this continent. we must not allow other countries to do this from the outside, and that is why we must decide here, and i wish you the same thing for your decision as you have been striving for: success. and i hope you'll make it through. the second point is that the eu has always attached a very high value to climate protection and has considered it to be very important. that is why the european union signed the kyoto protocol. you know, it's ambitious, and we have to do everything we can to make it happen. in this context, it cannot be excluded that air transport, which is a threat to the climate and climate protection, is the only one to be excluded from the measures. that would be to turn the goat into a gardener, and we don't want that. we know that air travel is dangerous, and we also know that rail travel is a relatively environmentally friendly transport system. it is not possible to say that rail transport is taxed, including emission levies, but air transport is not. that's why we want equal rights for both. the environmentally friendly mode of transport must be given priority over the mode of transport which damages the environment. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not want to prolong the whole thing, but a ship that has been detained for four years, a ship that has had 18 trials for illegal transport, and a ship that is over 35 years old, there is something very strange about that. we have made some progress in recent years with the prestige of legislative measures, and if the member states were to process all the commission's proposals more quickly, we might be a step further along in criminal law on pollution. the member states are lax, not the commission. even though we are now in the process of transitioning to the new commission and we will not be explaining this tonight, i would ask the commissioner to draw up a proper report, a good analysis, both on the environment and on transport after this disaster, and then perhaps also to submit additional legislative proposals, perhaps in the context of erika iii. we can then close those gaps which were obviously present in this disaster with european law, or where there has been a closure, where there has been no attention, we will then know where there has been no attention. it is also possible to impose sanctions where there has been improper trading. i think that could be possible in the next few months, so that we can not only learn from this disaster, but also make our seas a little bit safer in the future than they have been in the past.
chairman of the foreign affairs committee. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to ask the committee to reject the urgency. the eur 259 million allocated to the new financial instrument for the turkish cypriot community covers the years 2004 to 2006. this year, only 6 million euros were allocated to feasibility studies, so this should not be a problem. moreover, the legal basis 308 which leads to the fact that parliament is still consulted is not without controversy, if i may be so careful in my wording. i can also tell you that we have no substantial problems with the content of the commission's proposal, but because of the political importance of this subject we need more time to study the matter in more detail. i would suggest that we start work here quickly and come to a decision on this matter at the october ii plenary session. i believe that this delay should not cause any problems in our contribution to improving relations between the two communities. i would ask you to follow this proposal.
mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank you, mr president, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, for your speech. i think we can see that the broad lines you have outlined can be supported by the whole of parliament and we will support you as much as we can in your efforts to strengthen the european parliament. you have spoken as the representative of one of the most important institutions of the european union, if not the most important. we have the vice-president of the commission here, and i very much regret - and i do not mean this specifically as a criticism of the dutch presidency, but as a criticism of the general secretariat of the council - that the council is not here today on this important day. and this has to change. (applause from the centre) we have also seen in the past that the president of the commission has presented his strategic programme; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council was not present there either! i would ask the general secretariat of the council to ensure that the presidency of the council is also present here in future, because the general secretariat of the council has to ensure that the most important institutions are here. mr president, you are taking office at a time when we have here representatives from 25 countries of the european union, and you have rightly mentioned languages. we are known for our commitment to the unity of europe in diversity, which is why we have all the languages of the european union here in the european parliament. i think the main task facing us together, you as president and us as political groups, is that we have respect and esteem for each other and for each national and personal background, and that in the end, despite all our differences, we know that we are all europeans and that we want to work together to strengthen this parliament. you have mentioned our relationship with the commission. it is well known in this house that our group has naturally supported the president-elect of the commission, josé manuel durão barroso; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must, even before we have confidence in the commission as a whole, get the president-elect of the commission to make important concessions to us, the parliament, on how to further strengthen the powers of the european parliament in relation to the european commission. that is why our group has put forward a ten-point catalogue which we want to put into practice before we give the commission our overall approval and confidence. we want the commission to agree with parliament on the formulation of its strategic political programme, we want the commission to take the principle of subsidiarity into account in its legislative proposals, and we want to have less bureaucracy in europe as a result and to have the commission give us forecasts when it submits its legislative proposals. we also want to know how much it costs. mr president, you mentioned reach. reach is not just about reorganizing chemicals policy. we'll have to argue about that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our main task is this: when we talk about european competitiveness, we are not talking about companies in the abstract, but about ensuring that workers in the european union have jobs and that companies do not go to america or other parts of the world and we lose jobs here in europe. ladies and gentlemen, the president has, and i welcome this, referred to it as one of the focal points of terrorism. we say that there can never be any justification for terrorism and that we must fight it with all our strength and all our determination. but we must also say that the need to combat terrorism does not mean that we are putting human rights at risk. we must say that the life and dignity of a european are of the same value as the life of a palestinian. that the life of an american is as valuable as the life of a chechen and that the life of a person of the islamic faith is as valuable as the life of a person of the christian or jewish faith. (applause from the centre) that is why we as a parliament, in spite of the need to combat terrorism, without taking the viewpoint of the state - that is what governments do - must always be an advocate of human rights, everywhere in the world. whether we like it or not, whether they are left-wing regimes or right-wing regimes or whatever they are called, we must always defend human rights in the world without any state reason. (applause from the centre) let me make a final comment on the statute. we want a statute, but the ball is now in the council of ministers' court. we have done our job and the council of ministers is now in charge, and if the council of ministers does not want to go further, then the council of ministers should say so. we have done our job and, mr president, we, the epp-ed group, wish you every success in your work. if you represent the community of europe - and i have no doubt that you do - you will always have us at your side. good luck with that. (applause from the centre)
mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! mr president, i thank you very much for your speech. you have raised the points which we, as a social democratic group, believe to be among the essential elements of the time ahead of us, and we are therefore glad that you have raised them. i cannot and will not go into all the points you have raised, but you have used some key terms which i would like to return to because they are indicative of the direction in which this house must develop. you spoke several times in your speech about the dual source of legitimacy of the european union. the council is a source of legitimacy and the european parliament is a source of legitimacy. the constitution speaks of a union of states and peoples. the representation of the states is the council, the representation of the peoples is this parliament. and that is why it is right that this parliament should also represent the diversity of the peoples of europe. for our group, for example, this also means that the language arrangements in this parliament are not some annoying evil but must ensure that through these language arrangements this diversity of the peoples of europe is guaranteed and can also be expressed in the truest sense of the word. i am therefore grateful to you for pointing out that you are setting up a working party to make this efficient, but also to continue to make it possible for every man and woman in the european union, regardless of the educational or university qualifications of the individual applicant, to have the opportunity to be elected to this house and to work here. this includes language protection. i believe that this is an important point for the stabilization of european democracy. i am very grateful to you, mr president, for having rejected on behalf of this house all those who believe that the only way to combat terrorism is by using the language of violence. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the fight against terrorism, and it is not surprising that the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the fight against terrorism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a victim of terrorism. terrorists understand their language, and that is why they need, where they themselves use violence, violence, and that is state and legitimate, as a response to bring order. but what society needs is open dialogue and acceptance of each other, without reservations and without fear. the clash of civilizations is the basis for further terrorism. dialogue, as you have described it, could be a way out of the terrorism trap. i therefore thank you for your clarity on this matter. they talked about turkey's accession and the decisions that have to be taken now. i read this morning in a leading german newspaper that the debate is being held across the various groups in this house, that there is a heterogeneous picture in all the groups in this house. i am surprised to hear that, because i have always had the impression that there was a unified picture in one group and that the picture was heterogeneous in all the others. we know from this morning that there is a lack of consensus in all the groups in this house. the balance of power that must be struck between the question of political and economic opportunity in the short term and long-term considerations, including geostrategic ones, but in particular considerations of the integration of different cultures in this union, is one that each individual member and each individual colleague will have to make for himself in the end. but you have rightly pointed out that we must meet them and that they are inconceivable without the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but that we must bear in mind one thing when we talk about turkish policy, namely that the reliability of statements and commitments on the international stage must be the basis of european action, is certainly true. i cannot imagine that for 40 years you have been making promises to a country, and making new demands, and then saying: 'it was all for nothing, you did it all for nothing'. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. that too should not be lost sight of. you have said what is necessary about the statute for members of parliament and about improving efficiency. we are behind you in the strategy you have outlined and we will be fully behind you as you pursue it. i would like to conclude by saying something about your remarks on the commissioners' hearing. we shall use the hearing of the commissioners as the socialist group to make it clear that the future commission takes seriously your statement that 'competition and social cohesion are two sides of the same coin'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will be fighting for this social model as social democrats and we will defend it, even against a commission which tends to put competition first. and that is why, in the commission's hearing, we will attach particular importance to this project - social europe - in the case of each individual commissioner and each individual commissioner. let me end with a sentence: "whoever comes here and introduces himself, we will judge him by his statements about politics, not by his political past. because if lazlo kovac had not been gyla horn's state secretary, mr pöttering, there would have been no german unity. it was the hungarian government, with lazlo kovac in it, that made this german unity possible. that is why lazlo kovac is a welcome european, and i say this at the outset so that we can agree on this. whoever wants to turn the commissioners' hearing into an ideological battle of principles will meet us. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the debate on belarus is another hour marked more by despair than hope. this has been the case for years, as mr wiersma said. we've had our eye on this country for years. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. contrary to what the belarusian president claims on the country's mainstream tv channels, his power does not bring security, but rather fear and terror to the population. he rules with state-sponsored assassinations, power tactics like shutting down opposition, criminalizing civil society engagement, banning free speech. the list could go on and on. you know that. it is very difficult to find the way back to democracy in this country. and that is how the referendum should be assessed. for his own personal power-grabbing purposes, on the day of the parliamentary elections, the day when democracy could have been restored in the country, he raises the question about himself in order to distract from the real questions that the population is asking, namely, why it is getting worse while its neighbours are getting better, why it cannot share in the prosperity of the neighbouring countries, why the consequences of chernobyl are being denied, why aid is being sanctioned, why health care is being withdrawn and why scientists who collect facts to help are being imprisoned. eighteen years after chernobyl, the consequences are still unaddressed and large sections of the population are exposed to radioactive contamination. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to comment again on the recent action taken by dictator lukashenko, namely the closure of the humanitarian university in minsk. this was the last university with liberal values and the teaching of european values, and the closure was against the will of the students and against the will of the population. that's why we can't just stand here. we must protest because it is another measure that is driving the truly pro-european elite out of the country. the european union, madam commissioner, must also be criticised for not having done enough - and i give the first speaker credit for that - to get belarus out of the black hole of self-isolation. we know the reasons: our instruments are inadequate. the new instruments you propose in the neighbourhood policy are also far from sufficient to deal with this particular problem. they also ignore the european parliament's proposals to introduce special programmes here with other financial methods, with other possibilities, so that we can finally implement the measures that are urgently needed, such as the development of civil society and the strengthening of the free press. i would like to say one last word about my friend, my best friend in belarus, viktor gontschar, who, as you all know, is one of the victims of a contract killing. i think we need to do more to ensure that the murderers are punished and that his death is investigated without any ruthlessness. but we should also promote his vision, his vision of a democratic belarus which will allow the belarusian people to share in the progress and prosperity of europe. (applause from the centre)
we now come to the presentation by the council of the draft general budget for 2005.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am in a very strange situation today because after five years i have to agree with the commissioner on almost all points. i am glad that we have reached this stage of cooperation at the end of your term, and i think that speaks to the cooperation we have had over the last five years; we shall be able to appreciate that in october. i would like to address the president-in-office of the council today in particular because the draft budget presented by the council raises a number of questions which must be answered seriously by both parts of the budgetary authority. and it cannot be parliament alone, i make that very clear. the problems must be solved together, and the council cannot shirk its responsibility. agricultural policy, things have been touched upon. we have an agricultural reform that will be implemented as of 1 january 2005. this creates corresponding obligations; we have to comply with the copenhagen treaty with the new member states. we cannot continue to pretend that agricultural policy is the can of spending money that the council alone can manipulate. all legal obligations must be fulfilled. it is your responsibility alone, you know that, and i ask you to live up to that responsibility. the same applies to structural policy. it is of course good that we are now discussing a new financial perspective, where all the member states have put forward requests for funding. but if it is a question of budgetary implementation, which is now, and the commissioner is right, good, and then payments are cut, which means that there is an actual reduction at the moment, then this is not a policy that we can support. that is why you should also take your responsibility here, not just looking at the payments but also looking at whether the policies are in order, and they are in order in the structural policy. mr president-in-office, you said that you supported all the agreements on the multiannual programmes and did not reduce them. we shall examine this very carefully, because we have some doubts in certain areas. you can rest assured that we will look into this very closely. in particular, what mr böge, as our rapporteur, has negotiated here on enlargement must also be brought to life. i think it is also in our interest that the programmes we have jointly decided on in the legislative process - youth exchanges, education, etc., i do not want to go into detail - should also be used. i would like to ask you, mr president, on the subject of agencies, whether you are living up to your responsibilities here. i mean, the heads of state and government have been playing christmas with each other and have many agencies spread all over the country; now we have to fund the whole thing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. wherever administration is created, it must also be financed in the administrative area; it is not enough for the heads of state or government to boast of the great agencies they have brought into their member states. i would also like to ask you to ensure that the necessary financial resources are available to enable us to meet this commitment. information policy, i will say this as a cue; the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether it will take a decision on the matter. we must work a little more closely together here if we are to make good the shortcomings that have emerged in the european elections. foreign policy, i'm beginning to wonder what the hell this is all about. since 1999, or since the 2000 budget, we have had the problem of not being able to finance the commitments that the foreign ministers make in their endless spending frenzy. the commission is now making proposals - i do not know how many times - for the use of the flexibility instrument in heading 4, that is, in foreign policy. you 're doing your foreign policy with empty pockets . this cannot go through, i'll make that very clear. we'll really keep an eye on that. i could also say something about cyprus, but i am not going to say it because time is running out and the president is already looking very hard. administrative expenditure, just a word of advice; you can't cut everywhere and increase in your own household. this is unfair and unsolidarist and we will not allow it either. i thank the rapporteurs, all of you; there is a lot to do, we have to save money, but we have to save properly to make europe visible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been very well received by the committee on budgets. we have heard unanimously from all the political groups that we cannot accept the council's draft budgets in this way, and i would like to take up the crucial point made by mr lewandowski and mrs schreyer, the budget commissioner, that we must put the idea of solidarity and the spirit of solidarity in europe in the capital letters. for the first time, we have heard it, we are dealing with the budget for 2005, with the budget of the 25 member states, and therefore the budgetary approaches must also reflect this new historical situation - that we are finally overcoming the division of our continent. the draft budget as it has now been proposed does not, in our view, meet this great european challenge, and i would like to make this clear again by giving a few examples. the results of the european elections have shown that we have a big acceptance problem together, that we are not really reaching the citizens. it is therefore wrong to cut corners in information policy. on the contrary, we must be able to speak to our electorate in an offensive manner. the same applies to the cuts you propose in the european agencies, food safety, environmental protection or maritime safety. who else in europe is really going to make environmental policy if not us? so we also think that these proposals for cuts are not appropriate. a comment on the cultural budget. i have been second vice-chairman of the committee on culture and education for a very short time now, and if i find that the entire cultural budget is 1% - the same as for tobacco subsidies - that does not do justice to our continent, which wants to be the continent of culture and the arts. the same applies to our ability to reduce the traditional agricultural subsidies. if we really want to succeed with the lisbon strategy, namely the economic restructuring and economic renewal of europe, then we must take up space for action. because investing in youth and intelligence is the real resource of the future, and we must work together to achieve it. i would therefore like to make it clear that the letter from the six heads of government, which proposes to fix the budget at 1% for the financial perspective, is wrong in our view. we cannot meet the new challenges with that. there must be a correction, and we will fight for it in our member countries too.
commission. it gives me pleasure to reply to mr harbour. let me deal first with the question of safety. in markets where the repair market has been liberalised, as in the united kingdom, spain, italy or the netherlands, there have been no incidences of casualties attributable to the fact that third party providers have supplied some spare parts. the safety record in liberalised markets is as good – or, if you like, as bad – but no different from the safety record in markets where there is protection of the design. secondly, believe it or not, there are 90 directives, concerned with the safety of pedestrians, which apply to all cars and parts of cars, and therefore also to parts supplied by third party suppliers. the third point is that there is a so-called 'extended impact assessment' attached to the proposal, which deals with safety – it runs to 50 pages. i can assure members of this house, particularly mr harbour, that it is a very thorough impact assessment. he and other members of parliament that express an interest will receive it, together with the proposal. the extended impact assessment deals with the issue very thoroughly, but in order to still fears and apprehensions which exist, not only here but also at the commission, i have said that, now that the proposal has been adopted, i shall see to it that a further study is carried out into the safety aspects, so that we all can rest assured that the matter is being looked at. the extended impact assessment is a very thorough job and i have held extensive consultations with stakeholders, particularly with the car industry itself. members of this house will be able to read the extended impact assessment and form their own opinions. i look forward to a discussion on this proposal in parliament, even though i personally will not take part, but will be replaced by my successor, charlie mccreevy from ireland.
commission. mr president, firstly, who will control or supervise the car market and the spare parts produced by third parties? as i said earlier, there are 90 directives concerned with the safety of automobiles and these directives are policed, if you like, by the member states. the same will therefore apply to spare parts produced by a third party. those motor vehicles and those parts will also be supervised or policed by member states. so we can rest assured on that score. secondly, and this is something i put in the directive only last night, we realise that consumers need to be adequately informed. therefore, if the spare parts are not produced by the original car manufacturer but by third parties, the buyer must be informed accordingly. so to that extent the consumer will be advised that what he is buying comes from a different factory, which will enable him to say that he does not want that spare part, he wants the original, even though it may be somewhat more expensive.
the commission has already done so. i would like to make a preliminary remark: i do not think it is a good thing that this commission has yet to decide on this important matter. i think it would have been more sensible to leave this to the next commission, perhaps with a slightly different focus. in the explanatory statement for your decision you mentioned that a new market would open up there, that it could also create jobs. in another context you spoke of impact assessment. my question is: is there an impact assessment of this job creation, or is it not that jobs are being eliminated within existing industrial jobs because these things are now being forcibly liberalized for ideological reasons, and that we are moving jobs out of the european union to non-european countries through this directive.
commission. mr president, on the first question of whether this commission should have left the issue for the next commission, i wish to say that this whole issue goes back to 1998, when a directive was adopted on the protection of designs. at that time no agreement could be reached on the issue of spare parts for cars and the matter was put on hold. however, it was agreed that any change in legislation should go in the direction of liberalisation. that is what we have done today. secondly, in 2002 my colleague, mr monti, convinced the commission and others of the need to liberalise the distribution of cars, which is called block exemption. this was done, and this proposal is the natural concomitant of his proposal, which was adopted in 2002. therefore, it was of the essence that this commission should deal with this issue because, as i have said, it goes with his proposal. i therefore insisted that this commission should deal with it. moreover, i think the member who has just spoken would agree that it would not do for this commission - even though it is within six weeks of the end of its term of office - to pass on difficult decisions to the next commission. we are paid to take decisions - even though they may be difficult - and we should do that. the second point refers to employment. at the moment car manufacturers obtain spare parts beyond and outside the european union. they buy bonnets, headlamps and rear windows in countries like turkey, brazil and korea. in other words, at the moment car manufacturers have exported jobs to those countries. if we open the market for repairs and the secondary market for spare parts, it is more than likely that the jobs created by small and medium-sized enterprises - which, we all agree, are very important for industry in general and in particular for german industry - will more than compensate for the loss of jobs as car manufacturers have been outsourcing their components - their spare parts - to suppliers beyond the confines of the european union. although it is difficult to point to hard facts, i am confident that the net result will be positive for employment, since i expect these small- and medium-sized enterprises to become very successful in the secondary market for spare parts.
the next item is question time (b6-0007/2004). we are dealing with a number of questions to the commission. part i
question no 24 by linda mcavan (h-0231/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: statistics on unexplained sudden deaths among young peopleat the request of more than 100 members of the european parliament from all 15 member states, the world health organisation recently agreed to consider possible recommendations for improving the accuracy of national statistics on unexplained sudden deaths among young people. experts across europe lament that these deaths are recorded and classified with causes that are sometimes vague or incorrect, making it difficult to get an accurate picture of the true extent of the problem. can the commission indicate what possibilities exist for eurostat to contribute to the work of the world health organisation, in particular with regard to the training of forensic and pathological experts in the context of the statistical recording of unexplained sudden deaths?
the commission the world health organization is responsible for determining the exact classification of the items to be respected when certifying death and informing statistical authorities of the causes of death, with which we collaborate - as i mentioned in my initial reply - very closely. eurostat - the statistical agency under my responsibility as commissioner - has the greatest interest in having the most accurate information on causes of death, but what eurostat cannot do is change the current headings. the study i referred to earlier says that the headings can be improved because some of them are indeed confusing. but it is not the responsibility of eurostat, it is the responsibility of the world health organization. what eurostat does have a responsibility for - and is doing - is to facilitate the training of those who have to certify, and to that end there is a training package prepared by eurostat which basically has three elements: a basic certificate of certification at european union level, a website which serves as an on-line training tool for those who have to certify, and information on paper which is also accessible via the internet in the form of a brochure in pdf format which specifies and details for those who have to certify what the requirements are and how to collect the most accurate information possible, so that the users of that information - for the purposes you indicated and which we all share - can use it in the most effective way. so we're working on it, we're continuing that training effort, in collaboration with the world health organization. what we cannot do is take on the responsibility of changing those headings which may be causing some confusion.
question no 25 by mr athanasios pafilis (h-0249/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: major concerns over doping at the olympic games the use of anabolic substances by athletes at the olympic games in athens (doping) is a problem that has taken on enormous and worrying dimensions. the commercialisation of sport, the transformation of the olympic games into a stage where international sponsors and the international pharmaceutical companies that manufacture these substances can operate without restraint, the transfer of the task of setting olympic records to the multinationals and the current image of the super-athlete, and the fact that sport is moving further and further away from the requirements of a mass and popular sport - all these are the fundamental factors that are exacerbating and worsening this most serious problem. can the commission state what concrete measures it intends to take to eliminate the problem of doping and its causes, to combat the interests which fuel it, and to develop and finance mass and popular sports?
commission madam president, i cannot say more than i have already said. we have no legal basis for this. we are not in a position to take any action to harmonize or to put forward a directive to that effect. i would also like to point out that even if a new treaty is adopted, we can only be complementary to the action of the member states in this area, and i would draw the honourable member's attention to the fact that we have the case law of the court of justice. several court judgments in this area emphasise the responsibility and autonomy of european sports federations, provided that they comply with basic community law. i would be very happy if, in the future, more opportunities were offered to us to move forward. in addition, for example, as regards the fight against crime, i would remind parliament that in 2002 the commission and the spanish presidency organized a seminar in spain which brought together for the first time the heads of the anti-doping and border and customs police. it is a very complex problem, it is a problem of internal security, it is a problem of the labelling of medicines, it is a problem of sport, it is a problem of the protection of young people, it is a problem of public health. all these elements must be coordinated to give rise to concrete action, but it is also true that, except in the case of the labelling of medicines, we have no legal basis at our disposal to harmonize and to go on with giant steps, as we should. in fact, what we have tried to do by coordinating actions and by exploiting our moral strength in this matter was even more than what we could actually do. we have even exceeded our capabilities, but i thought it was the right thing to do and i think it was the right thing to do to take this anti-doping action, which is the only way to protect our youth and the only way to restore the sport to its noble letters.
question no 26 by mr czarnecki (h-0253/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: import of genetically modified maizein july 2004, the commission authorised the import and processing of genetically modified maize (nk 603) on the union markets for a period of 10 years. the american company monsanto had requested this. the maize is intended for animal feed and industrial purposes. but the commission has already announced that it will also allow its use in food! this is not only a matter of medical controversy but also of economic controversy, because it is a serious blow to the corn producers in the countries of the union. in view of this, does the commission maintain its intention to authorise nk 603 for use in the food industry?
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community's air transport policy. worry among workers was that this would lead to job losses, a drop in social conditions and lack of security. none of that happened. what's the matter? on the contrary, there is unprecedented dynamism at european airports. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have taken account of the concerns of the trade unions and have modified some of the initial proposals - as i said a moment ago - and have introduced and generalised the issue of permits, so that there is a public responsibility to ensure that all safety-related matters are respected, and standards are respected. it is also a guarantee that labour laws must be respected. so i think the concerns are unfounded. i repeat, this proposal is an opening, but what it must mean is above all more activity for those regions to which you referred.
questions nos 29 and 30 will be answered in writing.
i have to say, madam president, the other two commissioners have only one question to answer each. i'm sure it won't take 20 minutes. i think that is why we should do things differently. there is no point in spending 20 minutes on a question either.
i'm sorry about that. we shall proceed as is customary in question time. we now have further questions to put to the other commissioners. mr posselt, you are wrong, we have a great many questions, especially for commissioner dimas. i can only inform you that you will receive a written answer to your question. i'm sorry you had to wait in the hall, but there's no other way. questions to mr lamy
question no 31 by mr papastamkos (h-0274/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: textiles and clothing after 2005the eu is the world's leading exporter of textiles and clothing. the textile industry in europe is undoubtedly the 'industry of the future'. as is well known, the expiry of the textiles agreement (under the wto) provides for the abolition of quotas as from 1 january 2005. after that, all producers will have free access to the eu market. what measures will the commission take to ensure that european industry enjoys the same treatment as eu wto members in terms of access to third country markets? what strategy will it adopt to enable the european textile industry to maintain and develop its competitive position on the world market? questions to mr dimas
commission of course, there are many levels. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am thinking in particular of a number of technical measures concerning the composition of materials, protection against certain risks and specific characteristics which are sometimes imposed, particularly in the united states or in a number of important developing countries such as brazil, south africa, egypt and india. in reality, these are trade barriers which, under the pretext of protecting a particular local characteristic, have the effect of effectively prohibiting imports and protecting local producers. the whole 'non-tariff barriers' part, of which i have just given a few examples, is part of the multilateral negotiations as we are conducting them in the doha round, and what is true for textiles also applies to other sectors such as the automobile or electronics. so this area of non-tariff barriers is also part of the negotiations we are conducting at the world trade organization.
commission the commission is aware of mr rübig's interest in international trade issues, particularly small and mediumsized enterprises. it is true that the textile and clothing sector is more concerned with small and mediumsized enterprises than with multinational companies, which explains its sensitivity on this subject. i will answer him, in addition to my previous answer to the supplementary question by the author of the main question, by referring to the only remaining singapore topic, knowing that we have had to give up, at any rate for this round of negotiations and even if they do not leave the wto table, the singapore topics on investment, competition, public procurement and transparency of public procurement. so there remains, mr rübig, a subject which is very dear to you and which we decided to negotiate formally this time in geneva, namely trade facilitation, that is to say the elimination of a number of procedures, paperwork, authorizations, licences and administrative decisions which still too often accompany the crossing of frontiers by goods. trade facilitation is now a full-fledged negotiating topic and it is probably the most important one for small and mediumsized enterprises among the singaporean topics. in this respect, i am glad that our timetable and mr rübig's priorities have been able to converge to this extent. this was not the case for, again, investment, competition and transparency of public procurement, but the most important for small and mediumsized enterprises, and therefore for textiles tariff negotiation of technical barriers aside it was indeed trade facilitation and, in this respect, your wishes were heard.
question no 32 by brian crowley (h-0221/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the family at the heart of europe's social agenda in may this year, the european commission played an active role in the important conference on 'families, change and social policy in europe' organised by the irish presidency. what priorities does the commission now intend to pursue, taking into account the contributions made at the conference, to ensure that the family is placed at the heart of europe's social agenda, including the lisbon agenda?
commission. i would like to thank the honourable member for raising the issue of the family in the context of the social agenda. one of the conclusions of the irish presidency conference held in dublin in may 2004 was that family and family life remain among the top sources of individual wellbeing. therefore, they contribute to the social capital, although the treaty does not provide legal competence to pursue family policy as such. however, given that the issue of family cuts across many different policy areas in which the commission is active, it has already contributed to an evaluation of the interactions between various employment and social policies and the changing nature of families. these interactions are already having an impact on european union policies and will continue to do so in the future. for example, the objectives underpinning the union's social inclusion process, the open method of coordination on poverty and social exclusion, stress the need to ensure access to housing, healthcare and education for all and to develop policies designed to preserve family solidarity. the elimination of poverty amongst children is also emphasised. in this context, it is noteworthy that child and family poverty has gained increased prominence within the social inclusion process in recent times. for instance, one of the six key priorities agreed by the commission and the member states in the 2004 joint report on social inclusion is to develop a focus on eliminating poverty and social exclusion amongst children. also, in the recent commission staff working paper on social inclusion in the new member states, one of the key social inclusion challenges identified is to strengthen policies to support families and social networks, and to protect the rights of children. another important policy area in which the commission gives prominence to the family is in its emphasis on developing family-friendly policies in such areas as employment and childcare. more specifically, the european employment strategy, in line with the presidency conclusions of the european council in barcelona, addresses the problem of reconciling work and family life and provides quantitative objectives for increasing the availability of child-care provision. as to the future, the commission envisages that the family will continue to be an issue of concern in the european employment strategy and in the union's social inclusion process and thus for the further development of the union's social policy agenda.
commission. reconciling work and family life is one of the main concerns of social policy. most of our legislative measures or our policies attempt to achieve this. as an example, we are shortly to have a revision of the working time directive, the provisions of which are designed to ensure reconciliation between family life and work. flexible working hours is another instance of such a policy. we are working hard on this and i hope that we will have a more detailed policy in the coming months.
question no 33 by mr papadimoulis (h-0229/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: problems in the transposition of directive 1999/70/ecarticle 11 of presidential decree 164/19.07.04 which transposed directive 1999/70/ec into greek law oj l 175, 10.7.1999, p. 43. the court of justice has held that the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the labour market is not a fundamental principle of community law. you must have worked for 24 months, have had your employment contract renewed at least once and have an 'active contract' on the deadline (19 july 2004 date of publication) or three months before that. this scheme is contrary to the provisions of directive 1999/70/ec, since it applies only to workers who reach the age of majority in mid-2004. the extension of the transposition period is therefore not only detrimental to the interests of the workers but also to the transposition of the directive into greek law, which is delayed by two years. in a letter to the greek government of 13 february 2004, the commission expressed concerns about the measures taken by the greek government in relation to a 'possible abuse due to the use of fixed-term employment contracts in the period between the expiry of the deadline for transposition into national law and the entry into force of presidential decree (81/2003) '. can the commission therefore state what measures it intends to take to abolish this type of 'active employment contract', which is contrary to directive 1999/70/ec?
the commission. of course, the question is more internal to greece and concerns the various governments and agencies, but because mr papadimoulis is referring specifically to a provision on the subject of the active contract - because that is the meaning of the previous sentence - i would like to say that firstly, this specific provision of the presidential decree - and i am talking for now, i am not referring to what happened in 2002 - does not violate the directive, since there is no obligation to convert contracts into contracts of indefinite duration. the conditions for conversion laid down in the presidential decree are the responsibility of the greek government and any dispute arising from the application of these conditions may be settled before the greek courts. in so far as the condition of having a contract in force for the persons you mentioned, who were not appointed during the period in which the directive had not been transposed into greek law, concerns the mechanism for converting contracts into contracts of indefinite duration, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the conditions for the appointment of such persons are met. the commission is therefore not competent to take measures to abolish that condition, since such an obligation to convert contracts does not arise from the directive. as mr papadimoulis has rightly pointed out, the commission has in the past raised questions about the measures taken by the greek government to prevent abuses arising from the use of fixed-term contracts during the delay in transposing the directive into national law. the question to the commission concerned the previous presidential decree which, on the one hand, delayed the transposition of the directive and, on the other hand, transposed it poorly. if this situation had not been remedied by the new presidential decree, the commission could theoretically have initiated the procedures provided for in articles 226 and 228 to declare the member state in breach of its obligations under the treaty and to compel it to comply. in addition, because mr papadimoulis referred to the rights of citizens, the commission could indeed turn against the member state in the event of damage caused by the late and faulty transposition of a directive. there is a case law on this. in this way citizens are protected from the damage they may suffer from the inadvertent and unlawful delay in the transposition of a directive by a member state. in such a case, jurisdiction lies with the national courts and the award of damages is subject, first, to the existence of unlawful conduct by the member state - for example, late or negligent transposition of a directive into national law - and, second, to the existence of a causal link between the member state's conduct and the damage suffered. as regards the present case, since the new presidential decree does not appear to be contrary to the directive and, subject to the completion of the commission's examination procedure, there are no measures that could be taken against greece.
question no 34 by mr claude moraes (h-0236/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: transposition of the directives on equal treatment without discrimination of racial origin and equal treatment in employment and occupation into national lawwhat steps will the commission take to ensure that the member states fully transpose the eu directives on equal treatment without discrimination of racial origin and equal treatment in employment and occupation into national law?
commission. there are five member states which have either transposed only certain parts of the directives or have failed to transpose them in full conformity. for these member states, as i said earlier, the commission was quick to initiate infringement procedures. in the case of the employment framework directive, a reasoned opinion - which is the second phase of the infringement procedure - was sent in july 2004 and we are expecting an answer within two months. if no reply is forthcoming, the matter will be immediately referred to the european court of justice. we will use all the enforcement measures at our disposal in order to persuade these member states to move ahead with these very important directives.
as the time allotted for question time has been used up, questions nos 35 to 58 will be answered in writing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this is a time of mourning, not a time to lecture russia. that is a phrase that commissioner patten has just used here. i would like to express my support for this. no one who speaks in this debate today can escape these images. i think we can all easily understand what it means when there is a city where there is no family, no victim, no victim to mourn. and most of the families affected have lost children. you have to imagine it. there's one place in the world where no family has not lost a child. a grandchild, a nephew, a niece, his own children. this is a trauma beslan will live with for a long time. but not just beslan, we're all gonna live with this trauma for a long time. the media world we are at home in is volatile and frivolous. today, other images are relevant. i would therefore like to take up a phrase which i think is very wise, which was said by my colleague mr cohn-bendit. "a rubik's cube of terrorism has been crossed", he said. yes, as a matter of fact, that's true. for the first time, we experienced a quality in terrorism that was characterized by two elements. it is an unwritten but natural law of humanity that children are taken out of such files. the fact that children are not attacked has, as far as i can remember, been a fact not in war but in terrorism. for the first time, a quality has been introduced that says, "we don't care about that, we're taking an entire school hostage, no matter what happens to the children, we don't care". so the purpose also sanctifies the sacrifice of children. yes, a rubik's cube has been crossed, and we must fight back. and so i want to draw attention to this in this debate: because we all know what the mindset of these terrorists is, we should also look again at the fact that there are two leftists. there is clearly a link between chechnya and islamist terrorism and the strategic consideration of taking the conflict from a predominantly muslim region, chechnya and ingushetia, to north ossetia, where another religious community is at home. the aim is to double the conflict. but then when the hostage-taking of children was done, there was an effect that has been lost in our media world. for the first time in a long time, there was no demonstration in any islamic country, in any arab country, in support of this act of terrorism. there was no newspaper in the entire islamic world that did not condemn this act. even the most radical of islamic leaders have condemned and rejected this kind of terrorism. this element certainly holds a chance to revive a dialogue that we have lost. if we can identify the smallest common denominator - and i believe we can - it is that we reject this kind of terrorism together; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. and that is why we have also discussed in our group that the consequence to be drawn from this is that we should indeed avoid talking only about cultural confrontation, but that we should seize opportunities for cultural dialogue wherever they arise, and when they arise at such a moral low. the governments of our union, i would add to all the clever things that have been said here, must also be asked in this house, in this house in particular, the following question: the european parliament has broadly supported the countries which have said that preventive wars cannot be a means of international policy, cannot be a model for resolving conflicts. we are about to discuss iraq and the failure of this approach to preventative strikes to resolve international crises and conflicts. but then we must say with the same consistency that the undermining of the democratic system, the abolition of the rule of law, the reintroduction of authoritarian structures can hardly be a means of combating such crises. we cannot advise russia, but anyone who wants to reinstate the death penalty is outside the platform on which we are acting here, together with our colleagues in the council of europe. that too is part of honesty, and if you cannot tell your friends that, then in my opinion it is already too late. but since we have friends in russia and russia is our most important partner in europe, we have to say this clearly. preventive wars are as useless as the restoration of authoritarian structures. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we are appalled by the terrible terrorist attack in beslan. we despise and condemn him unconditionally. the brutality towards children, parents and teachers is unbelievable; these terrorists are not freedom fighters, they are cynical murderers. like all europeans, we members of the european parliament have the right to ask: how did this tragedy come about, was it inevitable? who sowed the seeds of this terrorism that so horribly kills so many innocent people - in beslan, a year ago in a moscow theater? who's behind the plane crashes in russia? such questions do not in any way diminish our solidarity with the victims and our horror at the hostage tragedy. there is no simple solution in the war on terrorism, because this war far surpasses all known forms of war, and it is also much more complex than the so-called cold war. there is no defined battlefield, there is no easily identifiable enemy, and that is why simple responses like military intervention are so ineffective. there is no question that terrorists must be relentlessly pursued, no one doubts that. but it is not enough to fight the symptoms, we must tackle the causes of this war. the russian government must learn from the beslan disaster to break this vicious circle of violence in chechnya. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. as long as there is no hope of a normal life in grozny, there is a perverse incentive for more terrorism. president putin is playing the tough guy, but he is not going to take the tough way, which is a political solution, because his government does not seem to believe that there is a possibility of a political solution for chechnya. so the lie of an unwinnable war remains. president putin announced changes to the russian constitution this week. this effectively removes democratic elements from russia's political system. this isn't a real war on terror. but this is putin's war on terror. a war against the political diversity that russia so desperately needs. and he's not actually enhancing security by strengthening the government. we, the liberals and democrats, are convinced that we have the right and the duty as representatives of the european people to speak about chechnya, about democracy and the rule of law. it is not enough to mention chechnya in small print. we therefore regret and criticise the fact that the socialist and christian-democratic groups have blocked a european parliament resolution on this important subject. we cannot accept rigged elections, a permanent violation of human rights. we cannot allow the principle of a pre-emptive war against terrorism to spread anywhere in the world. this road is a dead end. we believe in the universality of human rights and the rule of law. the european union is seeking a genuine partnership with russia, but this requires that russia be prepared to rethink its policy in chechnya and find the courage to take a new direction. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. mrs flautre, you have just said that the first question should be what is the russian information policy, what was manipulative, why journalists were kept away from the crime scene and so on. i have to disagree with you on that point. that's not the first question to ask. the first is sympathy for the victims, and in this respect it was a mistake on the part of the dutch presidency of the council to ask for reports on information policy and other matters from the netherlands instead of expressing concern at this dimension of terrorism. i would like to disagree with you on that point. secondly, if we analyse what is happening now, i think we have every reason to criticise putin's policy in chechnya in recent years. but the quality behind this attack has nothing to do with chechnya anymore. they are not ordinary chechens ... (interruption) it is not ordinary chechens who blow up a school and kill children in this way, because whoever says that is denying chechens their moral quality. it is ossetians, ingush people and international terrorists who are committing these acts, mr cohn-bendit, and that is why we must clearly separate this from what is happening in chechnya. we need other solutions for chechen policy. but we cannot equate these bandits and criminals who are gathering there and who have islamist entanglements all over the world with the chechen people. and in that sense we need differentiated responses here, we do not need chancellor schröder and chirac approving these sham elections. but we need... (interruption) we need, mr cohn-bendit, we need clear answers to this kind of international terrorism, because this terrorism threatens the whole free world, it threatens us, and it threatens the united states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. commissioner patten, i would like to thank you very much for your clear words at the end. you have made it clear that our debate today is not just about iraq, but must take a comprehensive political approach. it has become clear that europe's primary interest must be to find a peaceful solution for iraq - not just for iraq, but for the whole region. we must develop a coherent policy for iraq, iran, syria and, of course, israel and palestine. on the way to this difficult solution that lies ahead, we should also use this debate for clarity and analysis, even if we do not yet know the answers one hundred percent. we have seen in the last few months a complete delimitation of the violence in iraq. preventive strikes by the allies, guantanamo, abu ghraib with all these terrible attempts to justify torture, terrible terrorist attacks, the execution of innocent hostages, the holding of hostages to this day. i would also like to mention another news item which shocked me today, the report by an intelligence service that syria has allegedly tested chemical weapons on sudanese. all these are not merely acts of violence, they are acts which we all condemn with all our heart, which we oppose, and we have also written this condemnation into the european constitution. where are we today? after yesterday's brutal attack, which left many people dead, at least 60, the look on the press may also reflect the differences and the confusion in politics. the bernese newspaper says "get out of iraq", le figaro "the us must end the war", der kurier "iraq is falling apart under the eyes of the occupiers", and "bush has announced that he will use the money earmarked for security now instead of securing the water supply for the population". where is our responsibility, and where can we go? i believe that we must try to find a common political responsibility despite all our differences. we need to gain credibility. i believe that this will be necessary, because only with credibility will we achieve the support of the people and a strengthening of the united nations. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a party to the war in iraq, and we must not allow the iraqi people to continue to be a party to the war in iraq.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. without stability in the region, there can be no restoration of society, no security for investment, and without this in turn, there is no possibility of having a truly peaceful development. we all know that this can only succeed if the iraqi government has authority and legitimacy in the eyes of its own people and this is not an authority borrowed from american unilateralism. that is why the elections are important, that is why the united nations is important, and that is why i was so shocked by kofi annan's remark yesterday when he said: 'we cannot fully commit ourselves as the un, we cannot go back there until there is security.' it is like a circle: if the un does not go there can be no security, but if it does not go because there is no security, this expresses the entire helplessness of the international community in this matter. i think that for this reason we have to make it clear that terrorism can never be justified in any way and we are always against terrorism that is perpetrated by minorities here in iraq and that we have to support the majority of the population. but at the same time we must do this in dialogue so that the heads of terror are not beheaded in the hydra way and for every head beheaded several more grow. and we must not create a fertile ground in this matter. i think that we as the european union must do what we can for that reason. in the sense of political change, of aid, including the things that have now been addressed with the 200 million, to organise aid, to bring about dialogue, to build structures from which sustainable development will then emerge. this is not just a question of iraq, but it is a question of the stability of the whole region, and it is the stability of the whole region that will determine whether there is a clash of civilizations, whether we can prevent the great war between the cultures. we've come a long way from some of the failures we've had. let me say one last thing: i would like to thank commissioner patten very much for his cooperation over the past few years. maybe there's another chance. he has made it clear again today that we can only succeed politically as the west if our politics are coupled with moral integrity. i feel like our moral integrity is being compromised by guantanamo, by many more, by torture and all the things that happen there. if we fail to be morally upright, we will not have the credibility to conduct this process in a reasonable and peaceful manner. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the war in iraq continues, with cities being bombed daily by allied forces. the civilian death toll continues to rise. the daily life in iraq is clearly that of a war society. fighting, attacks, hostage taking, a vicious cycle of violence. the catastrophe we are witnessing today was largely caused by the war of aggression against iraq. and this disaster is getting worse by the day. mr bot said, if the translation is correct, "the occupation is over". this is obviously nonsense. we demand that the occupation be effectively ended, and that means that the occupation forces be withdrawn. what is nato doing, what is the european union doing? nato is increasingly involved in iraq. after the training of iraqi security forces by nato, will nato troops also come to iraq? the eu obviously does not want to be left out of the picture. the eu is trying to impose an open market economy system in iraq, in breach of international law, and more and more private security companies from eu countries are taking part in the war. the eu is also considering an eu force under a un mandate. we must say no to that. we cannot allow the eu to participate in the war in iraq and to support the occupation. (applause from the centre)
we now come to the vote on the appointment of members of the parliament to the acp-eu and euro-mediterranean assemblies - composition of delegations: see minutes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is one aspect of our debate that i find bitter. neither the council nor the commission has lost a word on the majority of the population in iraq, namely the women. not a word about exclusion in the transitional government or in the democratization process. yes, we want free elections, but is that not also true for the female majority in iraq? the committee on women's rights organized a hearing with the iraqi women, and there was a hope that we would help from outside, that we would put our finger in the wound, as in afghanistan, that women would be involved in the democratization process. we social democrats therefore want this aid for reconstruction to be combined with the demand for full participation of women. we must not let all the terror die hope - and hope lives through the women and children - the hope that they can work again as police officers, as politicians, as doctors, as university professors, as they could under saddam, this dictator. and that is why i think that, in all the calls for the immediate release of the hostages, we must not forget that the women in iraq must also be freed.
council. mr president, we had an interesting meeting in scheveningen. the discussion was based on three papers. first, a commission communication on the stability and growth pact; second, a court ruling on the excessive deficit procedure with reference to germany and france; and third, a statement by the european council on the stability and growth pact. ministers agreed that the commission communication offered a good basis for discussion. the discussion was held in two parts. first, we had a long discussion in the euro group with the 12. next, we discussed these conclusions in the group of 25, because the other 13 hope to become members of emu as soon as possible. the first conclusion we came to – contrary to some press interpretations – is that ministers are not seeking to water down the pact, but rather want it to be strengthened, clarified and better implemented. of course, the discussions could not be concluded in a single day, so we gave our collaborators some political guidance to enable them to work on the question in the future, together with the commission. the first thing we noticed is that, contrary to what is sometimes thought, the stability pact has proven its usefulness in anchoring budget deficits. if you compare, for example, the budget deficits in the member states during the current slowdown with earlier slowdowns, or with what is happening elsewhere in the world, it can be seen that the pact has contributed to lower deficit levels than we would otherwise have seen. if you also look at interest rates and inflation, we can be pleased with the effects of the combined budgetary and monetary policy. the second point we agreed upon is that we will not change anything as far as the 3% or 60% criteria are concerned – these are in the treaty, are of paramount importance and should not be changed. we also agreed that a rule-based system remains the best guarantee for ensuring that commitments are enforced for all member states in an equal way. we agreed that the treaty should not be changed at all and that changes to regulations should be kept to a minimum, if indeed they are needed at all, but we are not sure of that yet. in strengthening and clarifying the stability and growth pact, due consideration should be given to strengthening its economic rationale and its implementation. to ensure the credibility of the framework, rules should be kept both transparent and simple. we think the following elements should be analysed. firstly, the preventive arm of the pact should be strengthened. a more symmetrical approach to fiscal policy is needed through budgetary discipline during good times so as gradually to achieve budgetary surpluses when the upswing comes. secondly, we shall use peer pressure and peer support at an early stage of budgetary deviations, rather than waiting until a country breaches the 3% rule. thirdly, we need transparent budgetary figures and growth assumptions in order to identify and correct budgetary deviations in a timely manner. the second issue we discussed was debt and debt sustainability. the focus on these elements should be enhanced. firstly, more attention should be paid to the fact that a debt ratio should be sufficiently diminishing if it is above its reference value, approaching the reference value at a satisfactory pace. secondly, in assessing whether a member state has reached sustainable public finances, the costs of ageing should be taken into account. thirdly, we agreed to look further into the issue of debt sustainability. one particular concern centred on the possible statistical implications of pension reforms. thus concerns a few countries, but is something we should investigate further. a third important element is that when a country is subject to an excessive deficit procedure and we have to assess whether it is complying with the recommendations, we should make a clear distinction between measures taken, on the one hand, and economic forecasting errors. until now we issued recommendations on the efforts required and hoped for a result, but that result was in the same spirit as the written forecast. thus in future, when assessing whether or not a country has met the recommendations, we should make a distinction between policy mistakes and forecasting mistakes. finally, within the framework of the stability and growth pact, budgetary policies need to set the right priorities for structural reforms, innovation and competitiveness in support of the lisbon agenda to promote economic growth and create jobs. we asked the economic and financial committee and the commission to work these principles out further so we can have another discussion at ministerial level. we also agreed that it would be best to hold this discussion in parallel with discussions on france and germany and the excessive deficit procedure applied to them. (applaus)
the commission mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office of the council, i thank you first of all for inviting me to discuss the stability and growth pact. as you know, the european commission adopted on 3 september a communication on strengthening economic governance and clarifying the implementation and application of the stability and growth pact. i think it is very important to discuss not only in the council, as we did last weekend - and we will do in the coming weeks and months - but also in this parliament and in the national parliaments the economic governance framework and, in particular, the status and future prospects of the stability and growth pact. as the president-in-office of the council, mr zalm, said, we had a first debate on this subject last weekend in the hague, both in the eurogroup of 12 and around the table of the extended eurogroup of 25. the council has agreed that the commission's communication is a good basis for discussion and we now hope that in the coming weeks and months the work we are going to undertake at a more technical level between the representatives of the member states in the economic and financial committee and the commission will enable us to reach the november ecofin with a degree of agreement far more full of substance than we have been able to debate and reach on many points around the principles or the more general ideas among those contained in the commission's communication. as mr zalm has also said, the draft constitutional treaty adopted in june ratifies what is already included in the treaty and which we do not intend to change. these are the basic principles, the basic reference values for the evolution of government deficits and government debt and the excessive deficit procedure as defined in the current article 104 of the treaty. it is not a question of discussing what is not subject to discussion because it is subject to discussion in the present treaty and will be in the future constitution. the aim is to discuss proposals to improve, strengthen, clarify the implementation and improve the degree of compliance with the framework provided for in the current treaty and developed, among others, in the so-called stability and growth pact. this framework is based on national economic policies but coordinated in budgetary policies which must respect the budget deficit limit of 3% and the debt criterion of 60% of gross domestic product. on this basis, the commission's ideas in the communication cover both economic policy coordination and budgetary coordination or the monitoring of budgetary policies. as regards economic policy, we believe that there is an obvious need to coordinate our actions in the field of structural reforms better and to strengthen our efforts to implement the lisbon agenda. europe needs to increase its growth potential and create more jobs and we cannot rely exclusively on one instrument - the stability and growth pact - to coordinate our economic policies. we must therefore make more effective use of the broad economic policy guidelines, an instrument which is by its nature more flexible than the stability and growth pact, and at the same time we must improve the implementation of the stability and growth pact by applying more and better the preventive measures or aspects of the pact by reinforcing peer pressure, and particularly during the favourable economic cycle. as regards budgetary coordination, the commission's proposals to strengthen and adapt the stability and growth pact are based on four main issues. first, the need to place greater emphasis on the level of indebtedness and the sustainability of public finances throughout the process of monitoring and surveillance of the development of public finances in each of the member states. in principle, compliance with the 3% ceiling for the maximum deficit should ensure an appropriate reduction in the level of indebtedness and the sustainability of public finances in each country. in practice, however, in many countries the debt situation has not developed as expected because of the application of exceptional measures or the emergence of implicit debts. we must therefore pay more attention to the evolution of debt as a complement to a close monitoring of the evolution of the public deficit. it should be clear that the sustainability problem does not only affect countries which already have high levels of debt, above the 60% reference value, but also other member states where the percentage of their debt to gdp is increasing or which, without increasing at the moment, already know that they have to face very important and very difficult challenges in the future. among others, those arising from demographic trends and the ageing of the population. secondly, the commission is aware of the need to take greater account of the different national situations when monitoring the budgetary developments in each country and, in particular, when determining the medium-term objective. in a union of 25 countries, it is not a question of creating a pact to the letter - as some have said - and the commission does not intend to do so - but of applying the economic logic which does not advise establishing a uniform medium-term objective for the development of public finances in each and every one of the countries of the enlarged union. at the same time, country-specific medium-term objectives should ensure that the 3% of gdp rule for government deficits is in any case met. this therefore ensures equal treatment for different member states, irrespective of their different sustainability situation of their public accounts. thirdly, the debate should address, in the commission's view, the need to implement measures quickly, to strengthen the use of the preventive measures of the stability and growth pact. we all know that in the late 1990s and early 2000s not all member states took advantage of the good economic situation in their economies, the good state of the business cycle, to consolidate their public finances sufficiently. as a result, in times of economic difficulties, it is not possible, or very difficult, to comply with the 3% rule at such times. on all these points - these first three blocks of ideas - there was, as the president-in-office of the council, mr zalm, said, almost immediate favourable reception by the council. the corrective part of the pact has already been the subject of further debate and will be in the future. in order to be consistent with our preventive measures, we also need, in the corrective part of the pact, in the excessive deficit procedure, to take account of the circumstances of each country and the point in time at which the economy of each country is in the cycle. how can this be done? by two possible procedures. first, the current definition of exceptional circumstances in the stability and growth pact can be improved, allowing a country to be excluded from the excessive deficit procedure, even if it is above 3% of the deficit, if it has been in a prolonged situation of growth below its potential level. in order to distinguish between periods of low cyclical and structural activity and to avoid weakening the supervisory framework, the other two requirements contained in the current exceptional circumstances clause should in any case be strictly applied. the deficit must be temporary and the deviation from the 3% threshold must not be too great. a second consideration is the need or possibility of adjusting the deficit correction path, the rate at which a country above 3% should bring its government deficit below that reference value. the differences between the cyclical situations of the different countries in this situation justify this approach. in any case, the principle of a rapid correction of an excessive deficit is maintained in the commission's communication, but the influence on budgetary results - as mr zalm has said - of other economic factors outside the intensity of the effort being called for, which the country concerned is developing, must be considered. in any event, there is an interrelation between these two elements included in the exceptional circumstances clause. there is, as they say in english, a trade-off. we cannot bet on the uncontrolled expansion of the margin of manoeuvre in both simultaneously. if more emphasis is placed on reviewing a country's entry into the excessive deficit procedure, the adjustment path will have to be more rigid. if the current rigidity in the opening of the excessive deficit procedure is maintained, the possibility of adjusting the timetables once the country has been brought into the excessive deficit procedure to restore a situation in accordance with the treaty may be considered. i am convinced that these improvements will underpin a strengthening of the economic governance framework for economic and monetary union, that these ideas and the debate we are going to undertake from this weekend onwards will not only not weaken the pact but strengthen it, because the weakness of a pact, the weakness of a fiscal framework does not only come from the theoretical brilliance of the rules which we all respect a priori or in theory, but also from the ability to apply those rules and, as the recent judgment of the court of justice of the european communities says, the decisions are for the member states meeting in the council. the commission retains its right to propose, but it is the council and the member states which have to apply the rules which they themselves have adopted when they adopted the treaty and the subsequent regulations. the member states cannot be asked to adopt rules which they themselves do not believe in. and if there is a feeling based on experience that some of the rules need adaptation, it is better to adapt than not to respect them, to keep them unchanged and then to break them, which has been the unfortunate situation, at times, of the stability and growth pact. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are faced with a difficult debate which is important for the future of europe. the credibility of the european union, its institutions and the governments of the member states is at stake. our experience so far with the common currency is good; it is stable and is the decisive, the most important currency in the world, alongside the dollar. but the strength of a currency depends not only on the independence of the central bank and price stability, but also, and especially, on the fiscal and budgetary policies of the government. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the maastricht mechanism and the stability pact and the corresponding regulations exist to prevent this. and this has been violated in the past. the budget deficits have not been reduced in good economic times. we are in favour of making more flexible policies in difficult economic times, and of ensuring that they are. but we see the great danger that with a reinterpretation of the criteria, in better economic times the debt will not be repaid. that is our great fear that this will happen. we strongly welcome the decision of the european court of justice on the relevant procedures. we welcome the decision taken last weekend, mr president-in-office, to give the commission a new mandate. i also very much welcome the fact that you said: 'we will stay within the 3% debt ceiling, we do not want to go beyond 60%'. but we see that in some member states the total debt already exceeds 60% and that is why i believe that there should be no change in the interpretation of the treaty and the stability pact, as this would encourage more new debt. the council's approach can, in our view, ensure the continuity of the present budgetary procedure and encourage a number of member states to return to the budgetary discipline required by the treaty and necessary for the future of europe. i would encourage the commission to put forward a new proposal within the framework set by the council, and i would ask the commission to make sure that the impression is not given that we are now pursuing a new debt policy in europe through reinterpretations, perhaps even changes in legislation, which we will all have to pay dearly for. how can there be investment if interest rates rise and we have to service the debt and then there is no money to invest in the economy? i therefore recommend that we remain within the framework of the treaty, using the necessary flexibility which the treaty offers, in good times as well as in bad, in order to ensure the stability of the european currency in the future. (applause from the right)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have noted with pleasure that there was obvious movement in the council over the weekend. and if i am addressing you, mr zalm, it is because you have been a very strong defender of the interpretation of the stability pact as it has been up to now. i have sometimes had the impression - and i hope you will not be offended if i say this in a somewhat more pointed way - that you and some of your colleagues have a rather manichean interpretation of the stability pact. there's only either/or. there is now a movement in the debate because it is becoming clear that if we want to save the lisbon strategy, if we want to defend it, if we want to promote it, if we want to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy, we must bear in mind one thing: all the instruments - including the stability and growth pact - must be mobilised to achieve the objectives of the lisbon process. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the introduction of a single currency, the single currency, is a step in the right direction. and i believe that was done over the weekend. no one - and this is a very important point made by commissioner almunia here - wants to give up the 3%, no one should give up the 60%. but the crucial point is that if we maintain this guideline - and it is indispensable, and this is clear in our own ranks - then the statement made by the commissioner here is that each country must be enabled to cope with its difficulties within the framework of its specific conditions, that there can be no uniform objective imposed because the conditions vary from country to country to achieve the objectives again if you have problems - then this is also a step in the right direction, because those who want to save this pact will be enabled to do so. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the new treaty, and it has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the new treaty. the reference to demographic developments made by commissioner almunia shows that we have to respect and take into account developments that we were not aware of at the beginning of the debate on the stability pact. that is to say, to modify it, to modernize it and to adapt it to the present situation is to secure it, to guarantee it as the long-term basis of a stable currency. you have shown courage, mr almunia, and we say to you as the socialist group: we are backing you on this road. (applause from the left)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. there have been several attempts in history to introduce a single currency in countries that were not united in a political union. all these attempts have failed sooner or later. the euro was spared this fate. the stability and growth pact was concluded to commit the members of the euro area to criteria which are intended to ensure the stability of the currency. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, in which it called on the member states to take all necessary measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is brought under control. the reality is different. germany and france are failing to meet the 3% deficit criterion for the third consecutive year. however, the sanctions mechanism has not yet taken effect. the pact is in danger of being exposed as a paper tiger, and confidence in the euro is in tatters. in this context, the liberal and democratic group welcomes the fact that commissioner almunia has developed rapid and decisive proposals on how to save the pact. we welcome the fact that the 3% deficit criterion is in principle maintained. we believe that it is right that the total debt of a state should be monitored more closely. we accept that account should be taken of demographic trends in the member states and their budgetary effects, which are mostly negative. we welcome the fact that it is a matter of course that member states must have surpluses in good times in order to build up reserves for bad times. despite this positive assessment of certain elements of the commission's proposal, our overall assessment is critical. in a very general way, we could say that since reality does not conform to the rules, the rules are adapted to reality. germany and france have prevailed politically, at least for the time being. as long as the offenders themselves are involved in deciding whether a violation has occurred, it remains to be seen whether the sanction mechanism will ever be effective. the difficulties of a country like germany are not due to the stability and growth pact but are structural and self-inflicted. in good years, reserves were not created, necessary reforms were not undertaken with sufficient determination and public finances were not consolidated. only a simple, attractive tax system, the deregulation of labour markets, the renewal of social security systems and education will help to increase competitiveness and generate sustainable growth. our criticism of the commission's proposals is that the criteria for assessing whether a country is in compliance with the requirements of the pact should be those which allow a wide margin of interpretation, such as unfavourable economic conditions, special circumstances for long-term weak growth, country-specific factors in the correction of excessive deficits. we doubt the positive effect of peer pressure on the behaviour of the member states, on the contrary: the danger of political camaraderie under the motto 'if you help me today, i will help you tomorrow' will increase. the evaluation criteria must therefore be clear and easy to understand. we welcome the commissioner's intention to make the budgetary policies of the member states more transparent and binding, not least by regular reporting to the european parliament and public debates. last weekend jean-claude juncker was elected president of the eurogroup for the next two years. we hope that it will succeed in increasing the identification and responsibility of the member states for the stability and growth pact. the euro is a unique success story; the euro must remain stable in the interests of europe and its citizens.
i am not going to go into detail. the stability pact has not brought stability and growth to europe, but the opposite. in most european countries, growth rates are lower than in previous years. instead, poverty, unemployment, low-wage jobs and the bankruptcy of small and mediumsized enterprises have increased. do you really want to convince the europeans that this is stability? no one wants inflation, but price stability bought at the expense of employment and quality of life, such stability benefits only the european money elite and is to the detriment of the vast majority of europeans. the commission's proposals for reforming the stability pact are not, unfortunately, a re-thinking of the pact, but merely cosmetic corrections to make an obsolete concept viable again. those who criticise the commission's proposals as a softening of the pact have clearly failed to realise that the original stability pact is simply beyond salvation. after all, six european countries have now so successfully saved themselves in the crisis that they are no longer able to meet the so-called stability criteria because of the crisis, and not because of expansionary spending policies. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposals. if we really want stability and growth in europe, we must bury the neoliberal dogmas. budgetary consolidation is not an end in itself. public investment is the future and the future of employment. a prosperous internal market requires a mass purchasing power which cannot be achieved without a return to rising wage rates and social spending. speaking of deficits, if european corporations were finally properly taxed by harmonizing corporate taxation at the highest level across the eu, and if a new constitution obliged europe to disarm rather than arm, that would be a more effective contribution to the fight against the growing public debt than all the rabid austerity programmes that only make the problems worse. we would support a stability pact for europe that really deserves the name, a pact that would commit the european states to reducing poverty and unemployment instead of blindly pursuing deficit targets and that would impose sanctions on those states that fail to achieve these targets. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. two or three years ago your predecessor, mr solbes, a fellow countryman and friend of the party, was here and he reacted to the remarks of mr prodi, which have been quoted several times today. the pact is flexible enough, you don't have to change it. that is why the question now is why we have to change it all of a sudden two years later - with a new face, but from the same party family. i think it is in your interest - and this is my interpretation - to make the final attempt to save the pact, because we have seen, simply and painfully, that the finance ministers, especially those of germany and france, create european law but do not comply with it. i remember that finance minister zalm was on the committee with us and among other things he demanded that everyone be treated equally. i would like to stress that everyone must be treated equally and justice must be done for all. i also welcome the fact that you do not want to change the contract and that the 3% and 60% will remain. you speak of flexibility. there are economic reasons for flexibility. but i say to you very clearly: these reasons must be made concrete. it is a kind of free-letter, so that anyone who has a piece of national specificity wants to include it and then gets an à la carte presentation from the commission. it is necessary that you in the commission improve and give concrete details. i am particularly concerned about the commission's failure to address the problem of the pact itself. they must also be strengthened in this procedure. i do not see that they will suddenly save because the commission says so - that is, reduce debt - but that when the revenue situation improves, they will want to make their election promises. the role of the commission in relation to the council must therefore be strengthened. we in parliament on the epp side support you. i hope that the finance ministers will do this, at least in part. finally, i would like to make one comment: it is not possible that the stability and growth pact should already be blamed for the foreseeable failure of the lisbon strategy, which is caused by national governments. this is legend-making, and there's no way that's gonna happen. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. strengthening economic governance and clarifying the implementation of the stability and growth pact are important matters, if only to put the basic idea of the pact back into the forefront of the debate and to consolidate the basis for stability of monetary union, but also to avoid undermining the confidence that the citizens have placed in us in 1997 when we discussed the introduction of the euro, also in this house. the stability and growth pact is a requirement of equity and sustainability. it is therefore necessary to maintain it and to preserve and strengthen its orientation and application in accordance with the spirit of the maastricht treaty and the european constitutional treaty. the stability pact reflects the simple but economically fundamental insight that today's debts are always tomorrow's taxes, and are borne by future generations. the com munity's budgetary position is not in line with the budgetary position of the member states. the rules of the pact allow and permit the temporary accumulation of deficits during the recovery, as has already been said, but these new debts must then be offset during the next recovery. in this context, the european commission's communication rightly raises the question of long-term sustainability and calls for a better link between the broad lines of economic policy and the stability and growth pact. the commission's recommendations, however, are critical of the commission's emphasis on the economic cycle, which is the subject of the communication. in total, the european commission's communication contains five key proposals, of which i can only evaluate one below for reasons of time, namely improved budgetary coordination and enforcement. a closer link between the commission's recommendations on the broad economic policy guidelines and the stability and growth pact is welcome, and has enabled the european commission to reinvigorate systemic competition in the europe of 25 and to make an important contribution towards achieving the objectives agreed in lisbon. in this respect, the proposals put forward here again for more transparency and accountability in the budgetary policies of the member states are to be fully supported, and it must be in the particular interest of all participants in monetary union to support the credibility of the stability and growth pact through transparent data.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. the financial policy of the european union must above all provide a sound basis for the economy. it must be stable, it must be predictable, but it must not become ideological. i am very surprised that it is argued in this house that confidence in the euro is being shaken. where do you get an economic date to say that confidence in the euro has been shaken? quite the opposite. the businesses i speak to are more concerned about the strength of the euro against the us dollar. they are more concerned about the fact that we have a flat economic development, and the people i talk to are concerned about the high unemployment in the european union. i am sure that commissioner almunia will have an opportunity to address the question of confidence and the international view of the euro in his reply. in any case, we are in a position to continue this discussion here. mr pöttering, i was interested to see the wide range of discussions on this subject in your group. this is an exciting debate, and it seems to be happening within the epp as well. our offer is: let us be reasonable, let us not be ideological, let us support the commission with its appropriate ideas to make the pact more effective, to turn a stability procedure into a pact for stability and growth. it's high time we got on this.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european constitution has successfully completed the first two stages, namely the convention and the intergovernmental conference. the third stage is now due to take place in the next two years: ratification by the 25 member states of the european union. this third stage could prove to be the most complicated and difficult obstacle to the historic project of the constitution. we must see that the work on the solemn signing of the 29 october on the capitol in rome is by no means done. on the contrary, the work is continuing and everyone must carry this project through with the same energy, the same enthusiasm and the same discipline. i see the danger, and our committee sees the danger, that the european spirit which was very much alive at the convention, which had already been weakened at the intergovernmental conference, but which was still there, will be lost in the national debates and internal political controversies of the next months and the next two years. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and it is therefore right that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. this must make us think that populism, opportunism, is turning against the constitution, even if the motives have little to do with this project. we must not allow this historic project to be watered down or even destroyed by internal power games and power struggles. the european parliament, the commission and the council were active participants in the convention and the intergovernmental conference, and i believe that the three european institutions also have a special responsibility in this ratification phase. we must be lawyers to defend the compromise reached. it is not possible, therefore, for individual articles to be torn out of the overall compromise and used as a pretext for rejecting the entire constitution. this can 't happen . so here, a global compromise has been reached, and we need to look at the forest, not just look at individual trees, to visualize it. the european institutions have the particular task of explaining and informing the 450 million people in the european union of the main aims and content of this constitution. we therefore ask the commission and the council whether there is a communication strategy and whether appropriate activities are being prepared to inform the people of europe about this project. the house also asked the council whether there was any strategy to coordinate the ratification procedures in the 25 countries. we are well aware that ratification must be done in accordance with national law. it is also clear that some countries need more time than others. but it would be completely wrong not to make the attempt at coordination. the commission has already done so with the 10 applicant countries when they ratified the treaty of accession, and it has been successful, as you can see. the commission, the council and parliament cannot sit back and be content with being spectators. on the contrary, i said that the same drive, the same ambition must guide us over the next two years to get this project over the final hurdles. the 2004 constitution must not suffer the same fate as the 1984 and 1994 drafts; because they ended up in the archives and were just paper, but never reality. this 2004 constitution must become a reality, because only then will the progress made towards greater democracy, greater transparency and greater efficiency be of use to the european union and thus to the people of europe. that is our aim and we must work for it.
i am very pleased, mr president, that constitutional referendums are taking place in more and more member states, and i also expect the government of my country to clear the way for this as soon as possible. however, everything must be done to ensure that there is a real debate on europe and, in particular, on the text of the constitution. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we must face the danger that the constitution will become a playground for domestic political or party intrigues. the main problem in the various public debates that have taken place is undoubtedly the lack of knowledge of the actual contents of the constitution, and in some cases one hears quite a lot of nonsense. therefore, more needs to be done for targeted information; the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. perhaps it is not enough to publish facts, but also to show the difficulty of the debate, the pros and cons of certain arguments, tax policy ... the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have noted with interest that the council is considering the possibility of coordinating the ratification process in time. what if the deadline was may next year? it would have a high symbolic value. this is the 60th anniversary of the end of world war ii. the aim was to set a signal here for peace and stability on our continent, for greater integration. that would be a workable approach.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. women on waves is making waves in the european parliament too. why is that? the portuguese government has been preventing the dutch ship borndiep from entering a port on the west coast of portugal since the end of august. this dutch ship belongs to the organisation women on waves, which came to portugal at the invitation of portuguese women's associations to give information on abortion, contraception and the most gentle method of abortion, the abortion pill ru 486. the portuguese government therefore considers that there is a great danger for women in portugal. otherwise, she wouldn't have taken this massive step. the portuguese government has accepted that it is violating two fundamental freedoms of the european single market: the right to information and the right to free movement within the eu. this is a serious political incident; there has never been a case of a violation of the right to freedom of movement for purely political reasons. we cannot accept this as the socialist group, and that is why we are asking the council and the commission: what are you going to do to prevent this unique event in the history of the european union from happening again? i think that is also an important question which must be put to the future commission, and we want to see a clear sign here that this cannot be accepted. the incident has made waves across europe, and the media is full of it, because of course it goes a step further in the background. the point is that women in the european union are really being restricted in their freedom, and we cannot accept that there is a sneaking rollback here. if we look at the treaties, restrictions on freedom of movement at the national level are only possible if they are based on a threat to public security, for example terrorism. but is that the case here? are women here threatened in their health by an epidemic? an epidemic of free thought, free choice, perhaps? i say this with a certain irony, because we had quite different views on this matter in the committee on women's rights. the christian democrats wanted to "lower the case". but i think it is a very important matter which needs to be dealt with here in the european parliament. we want all women in europe to have the most gentle access to information, the most gentle use of contraceptives and abortion, and then to be free to decide what they want for themselves. so we can see here that this is ultimately a case that also goes very deeply into the decision of individual women, and that this is also a highly political process. and we cannot accept that two of the four fundamental freedoms are being violated. we want mr barroso to show his colour here, but i would also like to ask commissioner wallström to put her weight on the scales for women. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include women in the workforce. we want to prevent that, and that is why we are having this debate today. i hope that there will be a clear statement from the commission and a clear statement from the council. otherwise, i think the ship borndiep or the women's organisation women on waves should have sent a letter of thanks to the portuguese government, because this gives us the opportunity to discuss the principle that women should have access to free choice about when and how they want to receive information about abortion and how they deal with it, and ultimately also free choice about when and how they want to have a child. that is a basic question that needs to be discussed here. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there are different opinions on how to handle the issue of abortion legally. but when i listened to some speakers, i felt that they considered abortion to be progress. i think we should at least agree on one point, that every abortion is a disaster and a failure. abortion is a catastrophe for the unborn child who is killed. abortion is a disaster for the mother, often with lifelong emotional damage. an abortion is a failure for the father, who often cowardly walks away. abortion is a failure of the state and society to create the conditions necessary to promote life to a sufficient degree. that is why we should approach this matter very carefully and responsibly. how to handle this legally varies from country to country. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the council. it is not some obscure conspiracy that has created portuguese law, but the portuguese people. and the portuguese people in a democracy have decided that they want to fight abortion through restrictions and also through criminal law. poland and many other member states are doing so, with some success. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. but i find it unacceptable to pretend that this is about information. there is no portuguese citizen who cannot inform himself or herself freely about everything. it is pretending that the portuguese are backwoods people who are not properly informed. the portuguese are well informed and have access to all sources of information. this is agitation and an attempt to undermine the right of a member state to undermine an important principle of the european union, namely the principle of subsidiarity, and the most important principle of our charter of fundamental rights, namely the right to life. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i fully support this resolution. our ultimate goal is to preserve creation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. secondly, it means preserving the endangered and precious biodiversity. thirdly, animal welfare, both in terms of the trade in animals and in terms of natural habitats and, of course, the keeping of animals in human care. i therefore believe that we must approach the phenomenon of animal trafficking in a very different way, as mr davies has done. of course, we must be restrictive in our approach to the eradication of endangered species. but some species would not exist without the trade. some species would not exist at all if they had not been bred in zoos, and some species would not exist at all if they had not been preserved for future generations outside their original ranges because of the war, civil war, natural disaster or other events that have affected their ranges. i would therefore like to make it quite clear that i am in favour of this resolution, but i think that we must not throw the baby out with the bath, but must of course continue to regard animal trade as something reasonable within certain narrow, restrictive limits. our zoos are doing a tremendous job. our geozoo in munich, for example, has reproduced valuable species that would otherwise have disappeared from the face of the earth long ago. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. but when it comes to elephants and the ivory trade, the trade in rhino horn and other things, we have to take very strong action. i am in complete agreement with the colleagues. the fact is that there is, of course, the phenomenon mentioned by mrs isler-béguin, namely that in this area, with relatively little effort, enormous profits can often be made on the black and illegal markets. europol must also be involved more closely in this area. (applause from the centre)
in writing. the epp-ed coordinator on the transport committee, mr georg jarzembowski, said on behalf of the epp-ed group on the vote on the icao meeting: 'the epp-ed group will abstain on the vote on the joint motion for a resolution because the demands in the resolution are too undifferentiated and a properly differentiated debate on these demands with the member states responsible within the icao and the business and consumer circles concerned could not be held for reasons of time. the epp-ed group strongly believes that further steps are needed at global and european level to reduce environmental pollution, including from air transport. the epp-ed group also believes that the possible impact of such steps should be carefully discussed with the business and consumer circles concerned. it will also take into account that european airlines are already economically strained by the aftermath of 11 september and the dramatic increase in oil prices. parliamentary quick-fire does not do justice to the importance of these questions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the burmese people have been fighting a long struggle for democracy. in 1990, there was a glimmer of light when the national league for democracy won the elections with 82%, led by aung san suu kyi, the nobel peace prize winner who was awarded the nobel peace prize for her efforts to bring about nonviolent change. since then, the country has been ruled by a bloody military dictatorship, the nobel peace prize winner is under house arrest, she is being harassed, there are over 1,000 political prisoners. we have reports from organizations that the military, for example, is also systematically using rape against ethnic minorities. there are human rights violations on a large scale. since then, international institutions, including the european parliament and the council, have repeatedly condemned this military dictatorship and three specific demands have been made: freedom of political activity for the nld, freedom for aung san suu kyi and the opening of a political dialogue to promote democratization in the country. it was a major breakthrough that at the last asem meeting in kildare in 2004, the asian countries agreed to these exact demands as a minimum condition for burma to be able to participate in asem meetings in the future. there is a broad consensus in the international community that these conditions must be met, and this parliament has repeatedly and clearly underlined this consensus. it is therefore incomprehensible and regrettable that the foreign ministers of the european union have now decided to simply abandon these political conditions, based on their own criteria, and say: 'no, we agree to burma's participation in asem meetings without these conditions being met'. and there is no reason to believe that conditions in this country have improved in the last few months or so. quite the opposite. this is a completely incomprehensible turnaround. it is a threat to the credibility of european politics. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a full answer. who is to take the resolutions of the council of foreign ministers seriously when they say for 10 years: 'this is the condition that must be fulfilled for such participation to be possible', and then, in the concrete situation, say: 'it was not quite meant to be, we will leave it now'. we all know that behind the scenes there is, of course, a discussion of economic interests. we all know that there are arguments in the business community, "we need to be more careful now with burma. china wants to take over the burmese market. the competitiveness of the european union is at risk if we do not take a softer line towards burma.' that is the background music to such a decision, and i think we as the european parliament must also be quite clear: the credibility of the value-orientation of european foreign policy is at stake. we must make it quite clear that such a value orientation is the guiding principle of european foreign policy, that we stand by our own decisions. we must make it clear that this was a wrong decision by the foreign ministers and that this parliament maintains its criticism of the burmese government.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in vojvodina, after the turkish wars, a sort of flourishing little europe has emerged. a good dozen nations have lived there for centuries in relative peace, to a very peaceful degree. it is not just poles, ruthenians, germans, hungarians and czechs, but also croats and slovenes who have lived together there for a long time. it is precisely the serbs from vojvodina - i should like to say this - who have contributed much to tolerance in this region. the problem is quite different: the problem is that milosevic at the time violently destroyed the autonomy of vojvodina in order to organise the majority in the collective presidency of yugoslavia, and that whole waves of uprooted displaced people from other regions of serbia were settled there, which disturbed the complicated ethnic balance and until today could not take root because they were also socially and politically marginalized. so we must distinguish clearly between cause and effect. we will not solve the problem unless we strengthen democracy and the rule of law, autonomy and coexistence in vojvodina. we must support the hungarians here, but we must also support all other minorities. but we must also tell the long-established serbs in vojvodina that we know from their merits for this multinational region that this is not an anti-serbian policy that we are pursuing, but that we are concerned with restoring coexistence in this colorful multiethnic world of vojvodina as it has existed for centuries. the only way to do this is to confront the extremist elements clearly and also to tell the belgrade government that we will use this as a measure of belgrade's european maturity. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the image of the maldives as a dream holiday paradise must be contrasted with the political reality: riots, arbitrary arrests, solitary torture, restrictions on freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly and religion. for over 26 years, a president has dictated the island group; only his party is allowed to vote, he is the chief justice, he appoints one sixth of the members of parliament, he controls the media and his family controls the entire economy; my colleague deva has pointed this out. two years ago, after international protests, he promised democratic reforms. the eu commission's report has proved that the announcement was made but no action was taken. expensive public relations campaigns should give the impression of effective change. let's not be fooled by that. to secure his power, the president declared a state of emergency in august. the supporters of the democracy movement were arrested, including the former president of saarc. the epp-ed group calls on him to release the opposition prisoners and finally launch democratic reforms. otherwise, the financial assistance from the european union and the member states must be stopped. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the maldives. we are obliged to open their eyes to non-paradise conditions. to prevent possible travel warnings for the maldives and, conversely, a ban on government and civil servants entering the eu, there is a simple recipe for the president: let democracy happen!
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! this is an important debate and it deserved the presence of the presidency of the council and the entire commission. i hope that in future the whole commission will be here in the plenary not only when it needs our confidence but also when we take stock of the situation, because our future depends on the balance sheet. that is why i would have liked to see the full commission, but also the full council, here today. this commission, chaired by romano prodi, was a commission - and this is normal political and human life - with light and shadow. we have a dual role in communication: on the one hand we are allies of the commission because we defend the community model, but we are also the commission's controller, and we will continue to play this role with determination in the future. i agree with the outgoing commission president when he says that the interinstitutional agreement has strengthened democracy and parliamentarism, and we also consider the new commission to be bound by what we agreed with the prodi commission. we have been very successful in a historic endeavour - enlargement - together. our group has always been a driving force behind the accession of the central european countries, including malta and cyprus, and the fact that we have colleagues from the ten new countries in our parliament today in this debate, since the last european parliament elections in june, is something we can all be proud of. ladies and gentlemen, the outgoing president of the commission has used the term 'intelligent' for something he has called stupid, namely in connection with the maastricht criteria. we have not yet seen the light of day in this statement by romano prodi. but we expressly acknowledge the work of the outgoing member of the commission who was responsible for monetary matters - i do not want to name any names here, because i would have to name many names - and the way in which the former commissioner defended the stability of the european currency. i hope that the new member of the commission responsible for this and the new commission as a whole will defend the stability pact and the stability of the european currency. we have not been entirely satisfied with the proposals on chemical policy - they will now occupy us for the next months, possibly years. i do not want to go into details, but it is important that we make this europe competitive and that we do not pursue a policy which will end up in deindustrialising europe and losing jobs in europe. we need a sensible balance between ecology and economics, and the best social policy is to preserve jobs and create new ones. the commission's proposal is a good one, but it is not enough to make the necessary adjustments to the existing rules. in the implementation of the internal market we had concrete objectives and concrete data, and we should learn together from this that if we want to strengthen europe's competitiveness in the future, we must set strategic objectives, including data, so that we can improve europe's competitiveness. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would have liked you to have concentrated all your manpower on european policy, on your work as president of the commission. but all in all, i want us to leave with a positive attitude. i would like to thank all of you, and if i mention one name, it is that of the vice-president of the commission responsible for relations with the european parliament, mrs loyola de palacio. i would like to thank all the members of the commission for their efforts and i personally wish them well. the commission's proposals are not intended to be a political statement, but rather a statement of the commission's intentions, and i would like to thank the commission for its efforts in this area. in this context, a heartfelt word of thanks and good wishes to you personally. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president of the commission, on behalf of my group i would like to thank you for the work you have done for the european union over the last five years, together with the whole of your commission. the president of the european parliament and mr poettering have already mentioned some of the milestones of this mandate. you took office in a difficult situation; the commission has been in a position to take a number of decisions, including the adoption of a new regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. you've relaxed her! and you have relieved them by approaching this parliament, by making it clear, through your own conduct as president of the commission, but also through the conduct of your entire commission, that you have respect for this parliament as the representative of the european peoples in the interinstitutional context. we thank you for this, because you have thus set a milestone in the history of the european union. your successor will be measured by the standard you have set in dealing with this parliament. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. (applause from the centre) there is a second point, mr president of the commission, which you can be proud of and for which we thank you. in a very difficult period in european and international politics, you have taken a position which i would like to quote again. romano prodi has said here in this house that the use of arms must always be the last resort of politics. we must not resort to arms until all the alternatives and all the political instruments have been exhausted. the only legitimate framework for decision-making is the un. the consequences of war would be disastrous and unpredictable. you gave a visionary speech back then. on the question of the false war in iraq - and i say this with gratitude on behalf of our whole group - you, as president of the european commission, have drawn the right conclusions. (applause from the centre) the introduction of the euro has been mentioned. the fight you and your commissioners have fought for the constitution - which is a continuing fight, because it will be signed in rome on 29 october, but it has not yet been ratified - has been a cause you have stood for. and in connection with enlargement, you and commissioner verheugen, whom i would like to mention here, have worked in an exemplary way. i believe that in the final analysis romano prodi can be proud of his term of office, which, as with everything, has had its ups and downs, and we do not want to hide that. we have also had occasion to criticize as socialists. but if i compare mr poettering's speech at the beginning of your term with the one he gave today, the euphoria has subsided a little in the five years since. but that's the way it is in politics. mr prodi, you are now going back to italy, and you have not yet made any final decisions about what you want to do and will do in italy. but i say to you on behalf of the socialist group: whatever you decide to do - and i hope you decide to do the right thing - the socialist group will continue to support you not only in mind and heart but also in political will in whatever you decide to do. thank you for your cooperation over the past five years. (applause from the right)
high representative. mr president, before i go into the agenda, since this is the first time i have been in this parliament which was elected before the summer, i would like to repeat once again what i said five years ago - the first time i was in parliament - that the members of this house will find my full support and cooperation in the matters which are within my competence. i also wish you all the best and hope that with the work of all of us, of all the institutions together, we can realize the dream of all of us: a better europe at the service of the citizens and a better europe, also, at the service of the world. i am sorry, mr president, that my first appearance before you is about a subject which has raised so much emotion, so much frustration and so much passion over the last few years. the middle east issue is at the heart of every citizen of europe and the suffering of the people of those lands close to us is our suffering . last monday, 11 november, in luxembourg, the council of ministers of the european union examined this matter very carefully - as you know - and adopted a resolution which i shall not repeat, because i hope and am sure that you have all read it. i would like to deal with three very clear and precise points in the short time the presidency has given me, so that we can focus the debate on them, if you wish. the first point would be our view of the recent events in the area; the second would be to analyse the political situation in both palestine and israel; and the third would be to look at the current situation from the european union's point of view and how we could all find a way to accelerate the peace process and thus break out of the spiral of violence in which we find ourselves. as regards the first point, the recent events, i will refer, mr president, to the last meeting of the quartet, which took place in new york on 22 december. i would like to stress four points in the document that emerged from that meeting, because some of them are important for the subsequent debate. some of these points may have seemed forgotten or to have fallen into a state of dormancy, but fortunately, thanks to the quartet meeting on 22 december, they have regained their place in the hearts of the people. of these four points, i shall mention the following: the need for reforms within the palestinian authority - we all agree with this - and also a total and absolute condemnation of terrorism. but that resolution also says that the settlements must be stopped, that the members of the quartet take note of the decision of the international criminal court on the wall and that the members of the quartet want the process of withdrawal from gaza that has been launched in israel to be a process that is part of a wider political process and that really leads to the resolution of the problem as a whole. from that moment on 22 september, the situation, unfortunately, has worsened on the ground in gaza. what we have seen in the last few days and weeks around gaza has made us all suffer and, above all, has made us all reflect on the meaning of some actions on the ground. it is true that there was a time when violence began with the launching of qassam rockets into the northern part of the gaza strip by palestinian terrorists, but it is also true that israel's response has not been what european democrats expected. it was a response which went beyond what we thought a proportionate response should be: 119 dead, a third of them under 18, on the palestinian side; 5 dead, on the israeli side, including two children. it is impossible to continue living in this spiral of violence, where people die, senselessly, people keep dying, senselessly, and this whole process of violence does not advance the peace process by a single millimeter. how do you stop it? how can we stop this violence from continuing? on behalf of the european union, we have done everything possible in recent weeks - in constant contact with the authorities in israel, palestine, egypt and jordan - to see if it is possible to achieve a comprehensive peace, a comprehensive ceasefire. it was impossible. we have not succeeded, and we have not even succeeded in having a kind of pause to resolve humanitarian issues. so we feel frustration, excitement and sadness at the events of these last days. furthermore, to complicate matters and the situation, the terrorist attack that took place on thursday night in taba was also something terrible. terrible for the sense it had, for the people who died, people from israel who were on vacation, people from egypt who were tending to the hotels, some european citizens who were on vacation there. i therefore express the strongest condemnation of this act which had a meaning for the terrorists: to try to destabilise a country, egypt, which is cooperating admirably for the peace process. so once again i appeal to all those who can hear us through this european parliament for common sense, for peace and for an end to violence so that the process of israeli withdrawal from gaza can be carried out in peace and quiet, without further casualties on either side. the second point i wanted to make is the situation in palestine: you know it very well; you know very well what the position of the european union is. we need a government, a palestinian authority, at this moment, which has the capacity to act as such, as a government, and for this we have asked and we are doing everything possible to have the rules that have been more or less agreed by president arafat signed by him, to make them real through a prime minister who has real powers to operate in what are fundamentally the elements that define a palestinian state: security on the one hand, and the economy on the other. as regards the economic part, mr president, i think our good friend the minister of finance is doing an admirable job. everyone is aware of it. but in the field of security much remains to be done, and it is the responsibility of president arafat to give his prime minister a real delegation of security functions, which can and does act through his minister of the interior. as long as this does not happen, it will be more difficult to fight terrorism, to control the situation with regard to terrorism, to maintain peace and order in the occupied territories. i would also like to say that it is very important that there is a clear interlocutor on the part of palestine. israel continues to claim day after day that it cannot find an interlocutor with whom to discuss the peace process. this can become an alibi for those who do not want to move forward, and the palestinians should be able to organise their own political life in such a way that this alibi is not used by those who do not want to move forward in the peace process. i therefore want to call once again on behalf of the european union - as my personal delegate, mr marc otte, is doing in palestine at the moment - for a palestinian authority capable of meeting the responsibilities it has to face in terms of its internal reforms. but such things do not only happen in palestine. i would like to say that israel is also going through a period of political instability; this may also have an impact on some of the measures being taken at the moment. the negative vote in the knesset two days ago raises a political problem for prime minister sharon as regards the next decisions to be taken on the gaza exit plan: the fundamental vote on the financing, on the disengagement process - gaza exit - seems to me to be creating difficulties within israeli political society as well. we are therefore in a situation where new political realignments in israel are very likely to take place in the coming weeks, possibly even leading to the formation of a coalition government. but in any case, it is also very likely that the elections which were due to take place in 2006 will have to be brought forward to 2005 for the reasons i have just mentioned. in any case, we are interested in the peace process not going any slower than it is going. ladies and gentlemen, the roadmap spoke of a peace process in which there should be two states by the end of 2005. in 2005 we will have, at most, the withdrawal of israeli forces from gaza, we will have no more. and that is a huge failure on the part of everybody and very specifically on the part of israel and palestine and on the part of the quartet and the international community. i would also like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the latest statements made by some political figures in israel are statements which the european union cannot accept. these are the statements of a really unconscionable brazenness, at least for us. what has been said about the meaning of disengagement - the exit from gaza - the meaning of a total and absolute rejection of the roadmap, which the israeli government has signed, seems to me to be something that we must denounce in the clearest possible way. we cannot accept that way of working in politics. such statements create a lack of trust, not only in us, but in the entire arab world, in the neighbouring countries, in the palestinians themselves and in a good part of israeli society, and we cannot continue in this way. to say one thing and then say the opposite in the newspapers is not honest in politics. and it's not just anyone who says this, it's a person of weight, a significant and important person, one of the people closest to the prime minister of israel. that said, the question we all ask ourselves is: what to do? what can we do from a european perspective? ladies and gentlemen, mr president, the european union has a clear direction, set out in the roadmap, which is also the result of the efforts of the europeans, the americans, the united nations and the russian federation. we are defending it from the beginning to the end and we will not agree with those who do not defend it from the beginning to the end. we do, and therefore, whatever we want or can contribute at the moment, we want to do within that framework which is the roadmap. what can we do to speed up this process in the short and medium term? in the short term, i think we should work on four lines so that at the next council of ministers in march, and certainly at the european council in march, we can ratify them and put them into effect. the first is safety. the european union is ready and has a plan and a concept to help the palestinian authority improve its police conditions so that it can play its role in a serious and rigorous way, in law and order and in the fight against terrorism. we're willing to do that. we have the plan to do it, we have the people to do it and we have the will to do it. secondly, there are the reforms. the european union will do all it can to help the palestinian authority to complete the reform process it has begun. the palestinian authority leaders can be convinced, they can be sure that if they want to move forward on the path of reform, they will always find us by their side. thirdly, there are the economic actions. commissioner patten will speak about this in more detail, but in any case you should know that we are prepared to continue helping to ensure that this peace process does not suffer from a lack of resources from the european union from an economic point of view. but it must also be made clear that european citizens, who pay taxes in europe, cannot be paying money all the time if the operations financed do not lead to the desired goal, which is peace. and i would like to say that if the disengagement process, or the process of leaving gaza, is aimed solely and exclusively at gaza, the citizens and leaders of israel can be sure that they will not be able to count on the money of the european union. the gaza process must be part of a longer process, a process that really leads to the two states, which is the fundamental objective of the roadmap. and finally, fourthly, i think we have to work seriously on the electoral process. we must help to establish an electoral process in the territories, and that the palestinians can lead it; that there is an electoral commission that is reliable and that has the confidence of the people, so that the electoral process can result in a leadership - the one that the citizens of palestine want - that can put that country on the path towards its golden dream, which is the dream of many of us, the dream of two states. i said that about the short term, mr president. can we continue with just an incremental, step-by-step approach, or is it time to do something else? or is it time to take a longer leap, to play a much riskier role, if possible, but one that leads much more quickly to the final solution? we believe that the step by step, the small step by small step, is surely coming to an end and that, within the roadmap, progress can be made and progress can be made more rapidly if there is political will. we have it and, once the elections in the united states of america are held, we will try to continue working with them, with our russian friends and with our friends in the united nations, to see if it is possible to accelerate the roadmap, so that this slowness which generates suffering and frustration - without anything positive for the palestinians, for the israelis, for the region, for the neighbours, for ourselves and our societies - is ended and begins with a much faster progress that will lead us to the dream of all of us, which is - as i said before - the two states. we have talked a lot about the two states, but we have never defined what we want the palestinian state to be, what borders it will have. all these issues remain open and have not been closed. i would like to say again that from the point of view of the european union, some of the elements which form part of the final debate on these parameters are clear to us. for us the borders of that palestinian state must be the 1967 borders. we have said it very clearly, we said it at the foreign ministers' meeting on monday, we have said it through the european council and we are solemnly repeating it in this house today. and, from those 1967 borders, the two sides can negotiate any territorial exchanges they deem necessary. but that must be the basis of the negotiations and from there we should move - and i hope we can do so before the end of the year - on how to move more directly and more rapidly towards defining the final parameters, which can make this dream of so many people a reality and a political process which contradicts some of the statements made in recent days by responsible and respectable people on behalf of israel. after speaking as we have done in the past few days with the leaders of jordan, egypt and saudi arabia, i want to say to them that they all have the same feeling that, without knowing exactly where we are going, nor what the borders of the new palestinian state are, nor when that leap forward is going to take place, the stability of their own countries is at a certain level of risk. jordan is, in principle, a country whose borders are still undefined, which does not yet know what its neighbour will be and which wants and has the right to know what the borders of its new neighbour, the palestinian state, will be. mr president, the situation - as i said - is sad, frustrating for those who have devoted many hours of their lives to trying to find a way to peace. it is important that it be resolved, because the whole middle east - not just the peace process, but the whole middle east - is in a deep crisis and that deep crisis is something we all want to get out of. but we have to start by coming out very likely through a faster, more effective peace process, with more involvement from the international community and the key players, which are israel and palestine. mr president, i have little more to say to you this afternoon, but i want to say with all my heart that we will continue to work from now until the next council of ministers to see if we can put in place a small plan which, within the roadmap, can speed up the process in the way i have expressed myself to you. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the sadness, the frustration and the emotion that all these issues arouse in the speaker - and in all of you - i say again that we will continue to work day and night to achieve this goal.
commission. mr president, divine intervention notwithstanding, i imagine that this will be the last speech - certainly on the middle east - that i make in this house. i have lost count of the number of debates on this subject there have been since i took office. on a sensitive issue like this, it is only natural that our exchanges have sometimes been a little difficult. i hope that they have been of some use. i certainly hope they have not done any damage. as i approach the end of my term as a commissioner - i underline ‘as a commissioner’ - i have started going to the theatre again. i recently saw a new interpretation by that admirable irish playwright, frank mcguinness, of hecuba by euripides. the classicists and theatregoers among you may recall that this is a bleak and bloody drama of death, hate and revenge. perhaps all too suitably for this production, the backdrop to the stage was a tall black wall inscribed with the names of the israelis and palestinians who have died in the last few years - hatred, revenge and blood. it is certainly true, looking back, that despite the heroic efforts of my friend and colleague the high representative and others we unfortunately have scant progress to report. just the other day, as the high representative pointed out, we saw the dreadful massacre of israeli tourists in egypt. time and again one hope after another has been dashed. we had camp david, taba and the understandings reached there, and excellent reports from mitchell, tennet and zinni, all of which were to no avail. indeed, since taba the sombre balance is that a total of 4 360 people have died: 1 026 israelis and 3 334 palestinians. an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth - after which, as gandhi said, everybody ends up blind. innocent children for innocent children. the latest initiative is prime minister sharon’s proposals for unilateral disengagement in gaza. any steps towards withdrawal from occupied territory - albeit limited - are to be welcomed. however, there are, as the high representative pointed out, many questions that need to be clarified, not least in the broader context of the roadmap. although we have our reservations, this initiative does foresee the beginning of the removal of settlements - an important aspect and one in line with what we have been saying for a very long time. therefore, we are prepared to give it a try, although we have to be clear, as the high representative said, that the parties will factor in the five elements which the european council has identified as being essential for the plan to work. we must insist that those points are respected. the scepticism that has undoubtedly surrounded this initiative has increased, as the high representative very diplomatically said, as a result of the extraordinary remarks made recently by the israeli prime minister’s chief of staff and senior adviser, which have been deeply damaging. i hope that despite such remarks the two-state solution continues to be recognised as the only hope for an end to the conflict. to be realistic, we should not expect too much - except, alas, perhaps more death and destruction - until after the us presidential elections. even then it would be unwise to expect miracles. however, at the very least the international community should engage boldly with the israeli government to establish its commitment to the two-state solution, and with the palestinians to establish their commitment to security and reform. that is the only way to end the conflict. the roadmap shows how to do it, so the challenge for the european union is to steer the parties and others in the international community towards the roadmap. otherwise people may come to believe that mr weisglass was right and that his only mistake was to let the cat out of the bag. during the course of my mandate, i have tried with the support of the majority of parliament to build a reformed palestinian authority capable of governing palestine in due course and of negotiating and reaching a settlement with israel. during that period the israeli government has been seeking to marginalise president arafat himself. however, at the end of the day president arafat is still there while, unfortunately, the palestinian authority itself has been battered to pieces. i accept that president arafat might be part of the problem, but he is not the only problem. what i have always been clear about is that a reformed palestinian authority is part of the solution. it is not clear whether, under the current internal and external circumstances, the palestinian authority is in much of a position to deliver on a two-state solution. the deadly combination of too little action on the palestinian side and what has perhaps been too much action on the israeli side, has quite successfully destroyed most of the authority that the palestinian authority might otherwise have had. we need to find a way to give the palestinian authority more political room for manoeuvre and to do this in return for cast-iron guarantees on security and reform. the high representative noted the general work that we have done to support economic development as well as institutional development and humanitarian relief in palestine. this union has done far more than anyone else. this parliament has voted for and supported far more assistance than anybody else has provided. i expect that this parliament will now start asking itself some searching questions about the continuation of assistance on the present scale. let me make one obvious point. we are the biggest supporters of the world bank's palestinian development fund. to say we are the biggest supporters is in fact an understatement. hardly anyone else is contributing any money to it at all. we want to see that money used to lay the foundations for an economy in the palestinian territories that can provide jobs, revenues and at least a modicum of economic growth so that people can live a better life with greater dignity, have a better chance of a job, and so on. we are all entitled to question whether that money will be nugatory expenditure, and whether any expenditure will be worthwhile unless we can obtain certain guarantees from israel on its withdrawal from gaza, on the way that is going to be handled, and on gaza's medium- and long-term prospects. i am sure parliament would not want to feel that we were simply footing the bill for the consequences of whatever the israeli defence forces did. we have to make it clear that our role – the role we want to play in helping to support reconstruction – must be dependent on a real political dialogue with the israeli authorities. otherwise the money will simply be wasted, in the same way that too much of what we have done already has been wasted. i repeat that, working on the basis of the report by the council on foreign relations, working on the basis of the work initiated by mr rocard and his colleagues on that council, we have done more than anyone else to put in place reformed institutions in palestine. i salute the work of people like mr salam fayyad, who has bravely tried to ensure that palestine has a decent and transparent government. it must be said, however, that without political progress, without an improvement in the security situation and without a more effective dialogue with israel, it is going to be incredibly difficult to continue to justify that sort of help and that sort of expenditure. there is no more important problem facing the international community than this one, not only because of the bloodshed that it continues to produce, unresolved, but also because of the damage it does to the relationship between the west and the islamic world. nobody should be in any doubt at all about the impact of the struggle between israel and palestine and about the impact that it has on attitudes in the islamic world. we must work even harder to try to shape the parameters of a solution to this bloody conflict. if we do not succeed in that then to return to what is – i think – the last line of euripedes’ hecuba: ‘fate compels and none can resist’. bloodshed after bloodshed after bloodshed, revenge after revenge after revenge, unless people in washington, in europe and, above all, in israel and palestine, have the political courage to try to deliver what their people deserve and what the whole world requires. (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. you said that this was your last speech in this parliament, and i think many of us feel - including myself, despite some differences of opinion - that you were one of the most important and outstanding figures in this commission and that you have given foreign policy a very special profile in your field, and for this i would like to thank you very warmly on behalf of our group. (applause from the centre) the reason we are talking about today is one we always talk about in emergencies, namely an escalation of violence. we have seldom good news to tell the middle east, but often a very serious situation. the hamas rockets on israeli cities, the exaggerated military actions and then the attack in taba, in a place like taba, which was the subject of so many peace agreements and negotiations and terms. this new dimension of terrorism, in a neighboring country like egypt, against innocent civilians, europeans, egyptians and israelis, makes us aware of the whole drama of this situation. and that is why i share what the high commissioner said here today: the only way is and remains the roadmap. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. this is the position which unites us with the council, the commission and parliament. and the roadmap is a two-state solution, ultimately a palestinian state and an israeli state. what must happen in the next few weeks? i am very grateful to the high commissioner for reminding me today in very clear terms of the responsibility of arafat. for reminding me that the prime minister must now be able to work independently. that the security forces must also be removed from the authority of mr arafat and placed under an independent police authority with all the powers that go with it to combat terrorism. then you talked about money and economic cooperation. in recent years we have had the impression that the more the situation has escalated, the more money europe has given to stabilize the social situation. but it would be good if the police forces were reformed and if europe then gave more money for reconstruction, so that the people there would realise that if there is peace, then there is also european aid, but not unconditionally and not at any price. the steps you have proposed are therefore supported by our group and we wish you every success in implementing them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the citizens of europe ask, when it comes to foreign policy debates: why are we interested? what do we as citizens of europe have to do with this? the feeling of not being involved is often a feeling i experience when i meet visitors who are listening to our debates here in our house. what's it to us? i want to take up a sentence from commissioner patten: the unattainable or hard-to-reach peace in the middle east, and the growing radicalization of people that accompanies this unattainable peace, is also destabilising the security situation in our country in the long term. there is a causal link between this regional conflict and a global radicalization. that is why we europeans are directly concerned and why we are part of the road map to which - as everyone has said - there can be no alternative. it is good that the israeli prime minister said on monday that he was prepared to do so. commissioner patten, you reminded me of hecuba. i do not want to go into the dramaturgy, but i will quote a sentence that i never forget, which deals with terrorism and torture. it reads: "at the end of a certain process of cruelty, it is no longer important where it comes from, it should just stop". this is the feeling of many people who are affected, and it is understandable. but that's not enough. this statement alone is not enough, because those who commit atrocities need limits to be shown. those who only know the language of violence must be isolated, and they exist on both sides. it is true that the reform of the security forces is linked to this phenomenon. the security forces, reforming the police, bringing them under control, means helping to ensure that violent criminals are limited in their operational capabilities. one of the ways to contain the radicals is to work with the moderates. the offer by egypt and other moderate arab states to work with the israeli side now to bring about a ceasefire is a good signal, but the israeli side must also take it up. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we europeans therefore need the courage to encourage and openly support those in the region who are willing to engage in dialogue with each other, if possible without preconditions. this is a major contribution which we as europeans can and must make. this includes a commitment to the two-state model. i would add that the two-state model cannot be shaken by the withdrawal from the west bank alone. the guarantee of a viable second state must also be given, and to that end - as mr laschet rightly says - we must also mobilise funds for reconstruction, which we must then commit ourselves to in our own security interests. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, frustration and disorientation are high in europe in the face of the lack of progress in the middle east peace process. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. on the way there, we call on israel not to build new settlements and not to expand existing ones, and the west bank wall should not create political facts for future border movements. but when i consider that this ugly structure has substantially reduced the number of suicide attacks and thus saved lives, i cannot really criticize israel for building it, or at least for not building it along the recognized border. the wall will have to remain until the palestinian authority is willing to arrest the bombers with its own police and security forces. mr arafat is standing in the way of such an effective reorganization. another point is gaza. it is inexplicable to me that, after an unconditional israeli military and civilian withdrawal, the kassam missiles are being fired at israel. it is clear that certain palestinian circles are almost afraid of israel's withdrawal there, because then the palestinians in gaza would have to finally organize themselves and begin the civil construction of a city and its surroundings. until now, israel has always been used as an argument for not really making progress with all these necessary measures because of the fight against the occupation. this withdrawal should also open the way to the implementation of the roadmap, as called for by the quartet on 22 september. but when i look at the fact that on this tiny piece of land in gaza, thousands of palestinian police and security forces are apparently unable to stop the launching of these qassam rockets, then i really suspect that israel's presence in gaza is being provoked. let us not let this go unchallenged, because there are people in israel who do not even want the withdrawal from gaza, and these forces should not be strengthened either. it is in everyone's interest that we start implementing the roadmap as soon as possible. everyone has signed it and must implement the commitments.
high representative. madam president, i shall begin briefly by replying to the final reflections of my good friend mr swoboda. the four points i have mentioned must undoubtedly involve both sides, not just the palestinian authority - which must do so - but also israel. that's why we're working in that direction. but we honestly believe that to make the request made by mr menendez del valle a short while ago come true, words are not enough, we must take initiatives and try to act. that's what we're gonna try to do. what i have presented to you this afternoon is a small programme - small not because of its length but because of its depth - in the sense of advancing what is our fundamental objective: the roadmap to completion and in good time, not within a century. rest assured, we will put in place the measures we can. i would also like to stress that the withdrawal from gaza, if it is done within the framework of the roadmap process, is something we support and that would be good. it would be good if there was a law passed by the knesset that the settlements were removed and the people who occupy them were funded to leave. they used to be funded to open settlements. if it is true that we get a law passed within two weeks that does the opposite, it will be a success for gaza and for the future of the west bank. we'll see if we can get it in a few days. will there be enough votes to do that? i think so because i think the labour party will support prime minister sharon in that case to get that bill through. but i repeat, these four points i have mentioned require and need the contribution, support and understanding of the palestinians and the israeli government. but i would also like to stress that i have spoken of something else; we cannot go on with an incremental process alone. i think we have to take a bolder leap forward and start defining the final parameters on which the two sides have to agree. for that, of course, it is essential that there be a dialogue acceptable to both sides. that is why it is so important that we support the palestinians so that they can really develop, in the conditions they are in now, the possibility of finding the formula for establishing a solid, representative palestinian authority, capable of being a viable interlocutor with israel. that's what rationality would tell us. irrationality would tell us otherwise. at worst, unfortunately, irrationality prevails against rationality. unfortunately, we've seen this on multiple occasions. we, the political men and women, must continue to support the rationality of action. if, unfortunately, the people who are in charge of the management of other countries do not feel the same way, we would have to see what is the best way to operate in those conditions. i would like to say three things. the first is that i have not tried to avoid talking about the regional issue. it seemed to me that with the time that had been set aside in the debate there was not enough to talk about all the regional issues. the issue of iraq, iran and all the issues raised by the honourable member are certainly top of our agenda. it seemed to me that it was not the day to enter them and therefore i have not done it. the second point is that i would like to say with all my love to my good friend that i have not made any calls or appeals of good will. we're not among people who belong to charitable organizations. we are political men and women who want the problems to be solved. i have made a moral appeal at the end of my speech, but the rest of it was full of concrete, specific measures which should lead to positive results if they are put into practice. finally, i would like to defend my personal representative and the representative of the whole european union, mr marc otte, and i would ask mr menendez del valle to read the statements in their entirety. madam president, if i may, and off the record, i think this is the last time i will be in this house, in the european parliament, with a good friend, commissioner chris patten. we've lived together for five years. a lot of people sitting here today thought we were going to be two catastrophes, him and me, and doubled down on doing it together. it has been proved quite the opposite, that two plus two is not four but can be six. that, i think we owe to the cooperation and particularly the intelligence of chris patten. (applause) your common sense and your intelligence have been a lesson in good deeds for everyone -- at least for me, chris -- and i hope that from oxford your advice keeps coming through the airwaves, the internet, the word, the books, whatever, but keep coming. thank you, chris, for your cooperation over the past five years. we won't forget you. (applause) i would like to thank
i shall conclude the debate on this subject at this point. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the next item is the council statement on the situation in georgia.
high representative. madam president, i am going to talk about georgia, a very important subject, and i am sure that the majority of the people here are very concerned about the situation there. from the outset of political change in georgia, the european union has been fully engaged with the new government and the new political leaders who have been in georgia since the so-called ‘rose revolution’. i would like to tell you what we have done so far. firstly, we have appointed a special representative, mr heikki talvitie, who represents us in the region, and particularly in georgia. the role he has played has been greatly appreciated by everybody, by president saakashvili, by the minister for foreign affairs, by the government as a whole, and by the countries of the region. he has been able to act as a link between georgia and russia, which, as you can imagine, is a very important element in the situation today. secondly, and very importantly, we have included georgia and two other countries in the region, azerbaijan and armenia, in the neighbourhood policy. this has been the most important way in which we were able to help these countries move closer to the european union. we did it rapidly, and you can imagine the happiness this decision has created for the people and leaders of georgia. i would also like to say that the european union has already organised a donors conference for georgia. it was a success, right after the change in government. in july we launched the first esdp operation for the rule of law in georgia. it is working very well. it is an innovation, one of the many operations and actions the european union can carry out among the whole panoply of capabilities we have for helping countries in transition. the situation in georgia is not good from an economic point of view. gdp has decreased by almost 60%, which is of very serious concern. 60% of the population are probably below the poverty line and there are still around 300 000 displaced persons as a result of the wars in georgia. i cannot finish talking about georgia without talking about the conflicts and the problems facing the country. georgia has solved one problem through the autonomy of ajaria, but there are still two big problems which will not be solved so easily: the problem of south ossetia and the problem of abkhazia. the oecd has a role to play there. mr talvitie, representing us, will continue to work on that. but the solution of those problems will not be as simple and easy as the one i mentioned before, which was resolved quite smoothly through the autonomy process. this is going to be more difficult. it is going to require a good understanding of russia. we are ready to play that role if necessary, but we have the impression that these two issues are going to take more time and will be more difficult. but in any case they have to be resolved. without the resolution of the problem there, georgia's integrity will never be a reality. i would also like to say a word on regional cooperation. georgia cannot be isolated from its two other neighbours in the southern caucasus: azerbaijan and armenia. we have a relationship with the three countries. we would like to construct a relationship with the three countries which is vivid, which is important and which is close to the european union and the european union dream. i therefore want to say that president saakashvili has the support of the european union. it was clear from the very beginning that he had enormous problems in front of him. we are going to help him with the reforms he has to make internally and in georgia's relations with neighbouring countries, in particular its relations with russia, which will be highly important. as you know, there are still russian troops in georgia. president saakashvili has said he will not accept forces from any other country in his territory and therefore he will give guarantees to the russians that they can leave without the risk of any forces from any other country appearing in georgia. georgia has a difficult time ahead and needs the help of its friends. here we are. we are friends of georgia.
commission. mr president, let me briefly address three questions. how far has georgia come since the 'rose revolution' eleven months ago? how have we tried to assist georgia in this process? what are the challenges ahead in eu–georgia relations? first of all, georgia's achievements. most importantly of course, all observers judged georgia's presidential and parliamentary elections in january and march of this year to be the freest and fairest in georgia's post-soviet history. georgia now has a president and government with a very strong popular mandate to carry out the profound political and economic reforms which we all know are so necessary. a good start has been made in addressing the structural problems facing georgia, tackling for example endemic corruption, which has harmed every facet of life in georgia. georgia's state finances have been put on a more stable path to recovery. revenue collection has increased, allowing the georgian government to pay salaries on time. reform of the law enforcement agencies has begun and a new tax code has been presented to the parliament. it is only a start, but georgia has done well in the last eleven months. how have we helped since november last year? firstly, we have offered consistent political support to the new leadership and we have encouraged it along the path of reform. we have been in close touch with it and with the special representative, who has done such an excellent job. only recently president prodi visited georgia as well as armenia and azerbaijan. it was the first visit to the south caucasus by a commission president and it visibly demonstrated earlier this month the commission's support to georgia. we have also helped to mobilise significant international financial support for the reform agenda of the georgian government. colleagues will be aware of the very successful conference that we co-hosted with the world bank in june. it went very well. in june we doubled to eur 137 million our commitment to georgia over the years 2004 to 2006. so we have made a substantially increased contribution to supporting reform in georgia. the third way in which we have assisted georgia is the inclusion of georgia, armenia and azerbaijan in the european neighbourhood policy. that has been widely supported throughout the house. what are the challenges that lie ahead? firstly, georgia has got to keep up the pace of reform. turning reform commitments into realities on the ground is, of course, the hardest job, particularly for a country such as georgia whose state institutions have been so hollowed out, so weakened over recent years. secondly, we have to work to exploit the possibilities opened up by the inclusion of the south caucasus countries in the neighbourhood policy that i referred to. as far as georgia is concerned, the onus will be on that country to demonstrate genuine commitment to achieving political and economic reform, which is the only way of guaranteeing georgia’s long-term stability. that will be at the heart of the action plan which we hope in due course to negotiate with the georgian authorities. the other challenge is the conflicts on georgia’s territory. we welcome - and this point was made by the high representative - president saakashvili’s statement at the un general assembly confirming georgia’s commitment to solve the conflicts through solely peaceful means. our position in the eu is clear: we support the sovereignty and territorial integrity of georgia; we call on all parties to work for solutions to the conflicts through negotiation, confidence-building and exclusively peaceful means. our rehabilitation programmes in south ossetia and abkhazia can help to build confidence between the communities. it is essential – if we are to solve conflicts and secure georgia’s long-term stability – to see a serious improvement in the relations between georgia and russia. we hope that the presidents and governments of those countries can work to find solutions to the bilateral differences in full respect of each country’s sovereignty. from our perspective, the south caucasus is an extremely important part of the common neighbourhood of the european union and russia. we will continue to place this region high on our bilateral dialogue with russia. our view, as you know, is that strong, stable and prosperous neighbours make the best neighbours. that is what we mean by working for a better common neighbourhood. i hope that is also the view of the government of the russian federation. that is the most sensible way of looking at methods of securing a peaceful europe and european neighbourhood for the years that lie ahead. finally, i wish to express my gratitude to my friend, the high representative, for what he said which – to borrow a remark – my father would have greatly enjoyed and my mother would have believed. it has been a great pleasure working with javier solana over the last five years. it is true to say that even the most scholarly pedagogues and phd students would have some difficulty in finding any issue on which it was possible to slip a piece of tissue paper between what the high representative has said in the last five years and what i have said. it has been a pleasure to work with him. there is a lot of cynicism about politics, but i just want to underline that he has been a friend through these five years, he will remain a friend for the future, and i wish him the very best of luck as the constitutional treaty comes into place and he takes up the responsibilities of foreign minister. i wish my successors as european commissioners responsible for the portfolio which i have enjoyed the best of good fortune as well. finally, i wish to apologise to honourable members for the fact that i cannot stay for the whole of this debate. i have a medical appointment which involves manipulation of my neck - though not in as permanent a way as some members of the house might have wanted from time to time! (applause)
well, mr. patten, i can only wish you the best for the doctor's handling of the situation and suggest that we join in the discussion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. i am not going to go into the details of the situation, but i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its work on the subject. in his report, mr bourlanges rightly calls for the charter of fundamental rights to be made the cornerstone of future policy and, to quote the rapporteur, for 'they', the fundamental rights, 'to be applied with the same rigor in every place and at every time'. however, these lofty principles are already being ignored by many members of this parliament when they take decisions in their own house. freedom of speech? however, it must be in accordance with the individual opinion of the member. if not, then it is best to ban all dissenters from working in this european union. the only thing they will have to do then, in the words of our president, josep borrell, is to look after sugar beet. freedom of religion? of course, it's one of our basic freedoms. but they should be shinto, confucian, muslim, buddhist, or wahhabi. you are christian, you are catholic? then social democrats, liberals, greens and communists will say that with such antiquated ideas you are not able to implement the values of the european union. fight against discrimination? you can't be a cripple, not a christian. if that's not discrimination, what is? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the good report by mr bourlanges should be an incentive, because we can ask for a lot, but it is up to each individual to act according to his own standards. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. how can we shape the future of the area of freedom, security and justice in a way that meets the needs of citizens, of europeans in the 21st century? we must ensure that the eu remains open to the world, liberal and tolerant. we agree that we must take decisive action against international terrorism and organised crime. but we must take the appropriate measures. we are very much in favour of the european arrest warrant, for example. unfortunately, this is not the case everywhere. we are not, however, opposed to blind activism and the wild zeal to collect all kinds of data from citizens, store them indefinitely and distribute them to all sorts of places. this is supposed to lead to greater security. the long and hard-won civil liberties and the protection of the individual must not be sacrificed for this. these values must be the foundation of all action in the field of justice and home affairs. we have made this clear with tampere i and we must stick to it. we need to continue to have a common policy on asylum and a policy which allows us to control illegal immigration and to stop trafficking in human beings without diluting or even abandoning the principle of solidarity. what image of man, what image of women and what image of freedom should europe now shape in the future? the 19th century one or one that meets the needs of the 21st century and its citizens. we social democrats are for the 21st century. mrs klamt, you made a brilliant speech, but there is a bavarian footballing wisdom: 'a little miss is a big miss'.
mr president, i have a request to make. the conference of presidents decided yesterday, in my presence, and in the presence of mr watson, to instruct the president of parliament, mr borrell, to forward the letters from the various committees of our house, which contain the results of the hearings, to the president-elect of the commission, mr barroso, so that he can take note of these letters and draw his conclusions from them. i am now reading in yesterday's evening press and in the news from the agencies that although mr barroso does not yet have these letters, he is already commenting on the results of the hearings, to the extent that he says: i am not interested in everything that is in them; i am not interested in the outcome of the hearings. i think that the commission's statement is perfectly appropriate and i am not prepared to make any changes. i would ask you, mr president, to make sure that mr barroso knows that my group is no longer prepared to be talked to in this way. if mr barroso wants to have the confidence of the socialist group in this house, he must deal with this parliament in a different way. it is not just mr buttiglione, mr barroso himself is also involved. i would ask you, mr president, to ensure that when mr barroso receives these letters, he also receives this message that we expect a different approach from the commission president-elect.
mr president, commissioner, madam president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very important one. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. what surprised me in the debate is this: if you want to change systems of preference, and we want to change them, you have to have an analysis first. trade is not an end in itself, trade is used to promote economic and social development in countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. has it increased or reduced poverty in the countries? did he promote industrial occupation or not? has this improved health care in the underdeveloped countries or not? has the qualification, the training of the young people there increased or decreased? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'm afraid i didn't see any analysis at all. mr lamy said today that there was an analysis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the new regulation is implemented. let me make two further remarks. firstly, when dealing with preference systems, we must assume that there will be different assessments for certain countries. so perhaps we need to protect markets in developing countries, too, so that they can develop themselves. that's part of it. i cannot open every market if i want to promote development in countries, especially in terms of food security, agriculture, etc. secondly, it is not just about trade, but it is also about: if there is production there, if we want to promote social measures, then these must also be decent and decent jobs. i think that's part of the analysis. (applause from the centre)
the debate on doping in sport will now continue. we have to clear a few speakers from the list of speakers before we can start the vote. that's why i'm asking for discipline.
commission mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am in full agreement with parliament. the only way to fight doping is to have zero tolerance. to save sport, to save sportsmen, to save the values of our european society, we must join forces. the fight against doping, mr president, is a matter of will, a will which translates into concerted action between member states, sports federations and the european union. together with parliament we have already come a long way in terms of efficiency and i think the athens games are a good example of this, because there were more doping cases detected during the athens games than in all the previous games combined. that's a sign that the controls are starting to work. but this is only the beginning and we must continue this action until we have more powers and more possibilities thanks to the new treaty. we have a duty to protect young people, to protect professional and amateur sportsmen, to protect public health and on this subject i would like to stress that all the members who have spoken about laboratories, labelling and controls and prevention are absolutely right. so, mr president, my successor, mr figel, is awaiting this initiative from parliament, this hearing, which will be welcome because, in the end, we have a common responsibility towards sport, towards our citizens, towards our values, and only together will we be able to put that responsibility into practice.
thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. approval of the minutes of the previous sitting: see minutes.
we shall now proceed to the vote. appointment of members of the standing committee on the political challenges and budgetary means of the enlarged union 2007-2013 - appointment of members: see minutesreport (a6-0009/2004) by joseph daul, on behalf of the committee on agriculture, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1268/1999 on community support for agricultural and rural development measures in preparation for accession to the european union by the applicant countries of central and eastern europe during the pre-accession period (com ((2004) 0163 - c5-0178/2004 - 2004/0054 (cns)) parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12.35 p.m. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in 1993, the european parliament adopted a resolution commemorating the victims of national socialism. last year, on the occasion of the tenth anniversary, an exhibition on this subject was also held here in this parliament. the remarks allegedly made by mr gollnisch have also caused outrage in the german public. perhaps we should ask the front national and mr gollnisch not to say that he did not say that, but to ask him to make a statement that clearly dissociates himself from historical nihilism, that clearly and clearly says that he condemns fascism, that he recognizes the holocaust, that he accepts the historical research as it currently exists as fact. i believe that in this european parliament anti-fascism, the fight against anti-semitism and anti-racism have always been a value, and we should continue to uphold them. (applause from the centre)
president of the ecb. mr president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all say on behalf of the european central bank, on behalf of my colleagues in the governing council, how much we share your concern to maintain fruitful relations, the relations which our institutions, as the rapporteur said just now, have developed over the last few years. i look forward to continuing this dialogue with the european central bank in this spirit of openness and cooperation. as i have just said, i have the honour to present to you today the annual report for 2003, which is one of the main tools of the ecb for reporting on the monetary policy and activities of the european central bank in its fields of competence to the citizens of europe and to you, the representatives of the european people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the ecb's annual report 2003 has a new format. it is clearer, it is more comprehensible, it has more detail, it has greater transparency even on the critical points of the current policy. this will give the reader, the public, better access to the ecb's policy in this report. we think that the ecb has done a good job overall. there are criticisms of the ecb in the original report by my colleague mr lipietz which we do not share. first of all, the interest rate policy. we do not think it is right to criticise the interest rate policy as a whole. we know that interest rate policy is a balancing act, but on the whole the ecb has managed to keep things in balance in 2003: the economy is developing, the euro is stable and we have low real interest rates. the second point of criticism, which we do not share, is that we believe that the ecb's responsibilities are clearly and well regulated, namely, first and foremost, price stability and moderate inflation rates. if that happens, then important conditions for economic growth and employment are in place, of course not enough, but we should not put the ecb in charge of full employment or economic growth. this would be a total burden on the ecb. this is a matter for national governments! president trichet has pointed out that budgetary policy is important and that national governments have failed to live up to their responsibilities in this area. we cannot correct this by overloading the ecb. we also believe, as mr trichet has said, that the individual votes of the ecb in the committees should not be published. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we have successfully implemented the lisbon agenda, we have a different situation, and we can talk about it again. we are in favour of the ecb publishing a grey book every year, like the federal reserve, but we are also in favour of a summary report being published at the appropriate time, not individual votes, and then sticking to it. in conclusion, we should leave the ecb free to act as it is required to do under the maastricht treaty on european union. the draft lipietz report was successfully rewritten in the committee on economic and monetary affairs by adopting the amendments tabled on these points, so we are still surprised that the rapporteur has not withdrawn his name. we believe that this report is balanced and good and we approve it in this form. we do not think that amendments are necessary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to congratulate you, mr president trichet, on the positive continuation of the work of your predecessor, mr wim duisenberg. you have, through your previous governance, helped to safeguard and further enhance the credibility and independence of the european central bank. with the annual report 2003 and the monetary policy dialogue with you and members of your executive board, the ecb has fully complied with its accountability to the european parliament. the report is convincing in its format, its clarity and its wealth of valuable information. we welcome the fact that the safeguarding of price stability is highlighted in the ecb's annual report as a priority objective and as a key task of the ecb. the liberal and democratic group in the european parliament recognises this central task of the ecb, and moreover we expressly support this priority. we share the view of the european people's party on this point. we are also aware of the independence of the ecb. the european central bank does not need instructions on what its policy on interest rates should have been in the past or what it should be in the future. the weakness of the eurozone economy is not due to a lack of confidence in the euro, nor simply to a weakness in demand that could have been avoided by an aggressive rate cut. the main factors are the lack of confidence of many citizens and businesses in the economic policies of their respective countries and the slow pace of reform, especially in the large euro countries. i am thinking here of the necessary reforms of the tax system, the labour market, social security systems and health care, which have been delayed for too long or only half-heartedly tackled. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on this matter. the european parliament, as the only directly and democratically legitimised institution of the european union, will not fail to play its role as an advocate of transparency this year either. we therefore suggest - and i know that you have a different view, mr president - that the ecb publish a summary of the minutes of the meetings of the governing council, including the full voting result, but without naming the individual votes. we also think it would be useful to produce an annual report on economic developments, similar to the federal reserve's beige book in the united states, as the epp has called for. this would enable citizens to obtain firsthand and actionable information on the economic situation in their own country or in all the countries of the euro area. the transparency would be promoted and such a book could also strengthen the identification of citizens with the european union. in conclusion, i would urge the european central bank to continue to monitor the stability and growth pact with the same critical and attentive eyes and to press along with eurostat to ensure that the euro countries report reliable figures. cases like greece must not be allowed to happen again. we look forward to your feedback and to further close cooperation in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. there are economic theories that are surprisingly resistant to reality. these include the assumption that a central bank that seeks price stability is a priori also making the best possible contribution to full employment and growth. it is undeniable that we have had price stability in the euro area for years. if we take the effect of oil price increases and indirect taxes out of the equation, the inflation rate in the euro area is currently just over 1%. that's hardly on the verge of deflation. is that why we have less unemployment and more growth? of course, the crisis is not just due to bad monetary policy. it is mainly due to a profit-seeking so-called reform policy which is destroying workers' rights, encouraging wage dumping, privatising social benefits and, by all this, contributing to the strangulation of mass purchasing power and growing poverty in europe. but monetary policy too is partly responsible for the late and inadequate rate cuts. to say that the ecb has supported the goal of full employment is cynical in the face of the millions of women and men who have lost their jobs in recent years. many because small businesses have been bled dry by expensive loans. because that 's part of the job of a central bank: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the ecb has failed in this respect too. the history of the european monetary union is a success story, and this only shows once more the interest-oriented perspective through which we view political developments in europe: from the point of view of the european moneyed elite, with regard to gold-plated corporate balance sheets and growing profits, monetary union is an unbeatable model of success. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to begin by thanking the president and emphasizing that for us in the epp-ed group you are now the institution in europe which stands for a stable euro, not only for low inflation but also for compliance with the stability and growth pact. this is particularly evident in the developments of the last few months, in which the problem for the euro is the finance ministers and in which we in the european parliament have seen, in part with great regret, that the commission has not taken a position to the extent and as clearly as you have said today in parliament with regard to the handling of the stability pact. they are the guarantors of the stability pact in the european monetary area! i refer in particular to the case of greece. we need more european control here, and unfortunately i still hear too little about this. i could imagine, for example, that in the future there would be a reversal of the burden of proof, that in the future the commission and eurostat would have to critically examine whether the figures are plausible, and if they are not plausible, they could then ask for more. otherwise, they are not considered as reported. that would be a first step, and we are likely to have to debate it during this parliamentary term and decide whether to add more currencies. i will ask eurostat and the commission, and i will also ask the ecb: do you think the figures that have been provided are correct? i find it intolerable that to this day no answer can be given as to whether the figures presented are correct or not. i would like to comment very briefly on what you said about cesr. the bad thing about this process is that the administrations in the nation states are already creating facts, and it's becoming increasingly difficult to circumvent and redefine this in the legislative process. make sure these overseers don't act without a legal basis.
commission. mr president, we have all seen the latest news about the large-scale job cuts that were announced a few days ago by a major automobile manufacturer. the commission fully understands the worries and sympathises with the workers in rüsselsheim, bochum, trollhättan and elsewhere. we are following these developments very closely using the community competences that are available to us to facilitate better industrial conditions for the car industry in europe. the sector's difficulties stem partly from the general economic downturn over the past few years. the low gdp growth rate in the eu has had its repercussions on the car industry too. thus we have seen a decline in sales of motor vehicles and a decline in employment in the automotive industry. therefore, improving general consumer confidence and economic dynamism is also crucial for the demand and sales of cars. competitiveness, economic reform and new industrial policy are now high on the political agenda of the commission and will receive even more focus in the new commission. we shall also soon learn how mr kok proposes to revise the lisbon strategy to put more weight on higher growth and better job creation. in order to be able to better assess the competitiveness of the car industry the commission has launched a study that we will publish in a few weeks time in the context of our annual competitiveness report. the study shows that the automotive industry contributes 6% to our manufacturing employment and 7% to manufacturing output in the union, making it a major driver in the european economy. its added value and employment have, however, declined between 2000 and 2002. a similar development in employment took place in the us and japan. our analysis of europe's strengths reveals that, due to the large home market, the european motor vehicle industry is well positioned to exploit economies of scale. moreover, due to the sophisticated demand, eu manufacturers get advance feedback from their customers, which helps them improve product quality. furthermore there is a high innovation capacity and research and development spending amongst the european automotive industry is at least as high as, or higher than, that in the us and japan. in terms of weaknesses, eu productivity is still lower than that in the us and japan. furthermore there is slow growth in the european home market, which means that as other markets continue to grow the demand advantages from the large european market may diminish over time. compared to the current level of productivity in the union, the level of labour costs presents a serious challenge for the car industry in some member states. labour costs per hour in the european union are still somewhat below those in the united states but significantly higher than those in japan and especially korea. we can best compete if we can offer better quality, better technology and better services that come with a car. this underlines the importance of innovation. as has been shown by some manufacturers, an agreement can also be reached with the workforce, aimed at reducing costs. for this to happen there has to be a common understanding between management and the workforce as to what objectives are to be achieved. such agreements make sense if they can be used to save employment, to keep manufacturing locations and to make the car industry more competitive. with regard to threats, our studies see a danger that major innovations are not stimulated by european regulations. future regulation must therefore take into account the long-term competitiveness of the car industry and the need for manufacturers to be able to sell their products and similar products in europe and on the whole world market. this must be addressed by policies of better regulation, which is a major challenge for both of us, the commission as well as for parliament. the commission is currently considering setting up a high-level group to analyse major challenges affecting the automobile sector and to identify ways and means to improve the industrial framework conditions in the sector. this high-level group should also focus on the cumulative impact of legislation on the sector's competitiveness. it is up to the new commission to take a position on the setting up of such a group. commissioner verheugen, or rather vice-president-designate verheugen, said at his hearing in front of you in the european parliament that he is considering setting up such a group. i will certainly support him if he chooses to do so. in conclusion, the commission is doing its utmost to offer the best possible industrial and innovative framework conditions for the car industry, for the european automotive industry. we need to further develop dialogue in the sector with the main stakeholders involved. moreover, we must revise the lisbon strategy of growth and employment to revitalise economic dynamism and to strengthen consumer demand on our continent. growth and employment must indeed be put centre stage in all union activities.
did the europe site fail? the european commission has recently published a report on the implementation of the european union's energy strategy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is a key industry! if she's being maneuvered into a crisis now, i can only say: in germany, a hundred thousand new jobs have been created in this sector since 1990. or did the location fail germany? the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i met with people in my home constituency who were affected. fear is everywhere! the commission has already worked for years to reduce costs in the olympia concept. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed, and has recently introduced a new system of working hours. if the ceo of adam opel ag changes six times in five years, if trends are missed and model series are demanded as not innovative and attractive, if quality is sacrificed to reduce costs in the short term and thus a good reputation is risked, then this is a serious mistake of the management. if the restructuring of the automobile industry is now being used as an excuse to abolish participation in decision-making, i call that a provocation. the involvement of the employees, especially in difficult times, has led to a consensus, has ensured peace of mind and has brought both sides forward again and again. the epp-ed group can only hope that the workers' representation and management will negotiate a european future contract together. in my experience, workers are always prepared to take harsh measures if it means securing their jobs in the long term.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the socialist members of the european parliament support the workers of the european subsidiaries of general motors in their demand that no plant closures or redundancies be allowed. what are the causes of the crisis? the cause of the crisis is years, if not decades, of mismanagement at the top of the group. there was no european strategy, and perhaps that is the biggest mistake: there was no strategy for the european single market, no strategy for european consumers and no strategy that took into account the knowledge, skills and knowledge of the people working in the companies concerned. this shows very clearly that we need a change of course. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. we believe that it is a good way to discuss the possibility of merging the subsidiaries of general motors into a european joint stock company. but we also call on the commission to become more active, to enter into a sectoral industrial policy dialogue capable of promoting innovation in the relevant sectors which are important for europe. we are only beginning to look at the future of european industrial policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do not understand at all that in this debate today the liberals and the conservatives have prevented us from reaching a joint resolution. you'll have to learn, ladies and gentlemen! (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to express, on behalf of my group, our solidarity with the opel workers throughout europe, but in particular i would like to support the workers in bochum who went on strike. we believe it is right to react in this way to a contempt of management, because what is it but a great, deep contempt when a company planning mass layoffs no longer has to be at the top of the planning to communicate these plans directly to its employees who were working in highly productive locations, but when the employees have to hear about it from the press. the commission has already said what it needs to say about the management's mistakes. let us talk about the future of work, including the commission in this area. if the commission is elected, which i do not believe it will be today, mr verheugen will have to take over the task within the framework of the lisbon strategy as early as next week. i don't know if we're really prepared politically for what's ahead. i share the doubts raised by mr bullmann. i think we are a long way from having sustainable concepts in the automotive or mobility industries. in the last few decades, a great deal of innovation has been lost. mr rehn, you have mentioned research policy and development policy. i would very much like to see the new energy crisis now lead to european research policy actually going in the direction that we will someday be able to actually produce one-litre cars, so future-proof cars, in german factories, in european factories, in the foreseeable future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as a lower saxonian, i would like to address a particular problem of the lower saxony automobile industry, the german and european automobile industries. the commission has repeatedly attacked the vw act in recent years under mr bolkestein. the vw group is a group in which innovative corporate culture has been demonstrated. the future of participation, what can it look like? vw, thanks to vw law, has shown that: share the work, waive the wages, 5,000 times 5,000. these are concepts that other companies could learn from. however, this constant attack on the vw law, which in our opinion does not violate the internal market, is also an attack on this exemplary corporate culture.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we social democrats are in favour of a common strategy for all gm sites in europe. we are always in danger of being pushed into a corner to take care of social responsibility. sometimes we get caught up in it too easily. but it also deals with points which have something to do with economics in the very classical sense. some points still need to be added to the list of mistakes made by management. these errors were brought to the attention of management on several occasions by the workers' representatives. for example, that no opel cars are sold outside the european continent, for example in the united states, like the vw, like the japanese do. i am not talking about the luxury brands that are sold in europe. or there were bargain shopping with the consequence of expensive weekend rework. new working concepts were introduced abruptly and there was a degree of over-centralization within the group. it is necessary to point out these points because it is precisely in these days - and i expressly agree with mr mann - that representatives of industrial associations and the ideologues they support are working to tear down and declare obsolete the forms of co-determination which we have introduced in europe as part of our social model. i agree with most of what you said. but why has your group refused to put a resolution on the agenda with its majority? perhaps they did not want what you have put forward to be decided in substance in parliament this week. this is a point which must be made very clearly, because we social democrats can largely agree with what you have said. it is only embarrassing that your colleague in the bochum group, for example, is raising the question of whether the crisis could not have been overcome by regional or local economic development. these are petty answers. we need others here! (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it 's nothing new . the management of global companies always responds to crises by laying off employees. but management errors must be brought to the attention of those responsible, not the employees! if we are dealing with a crisis caused by overproduction and problems of distribution, it is absurd from the economic point of view to give in to the demands of the business community for wage cuts. it is good that the workforce is resisting being just pawns on the board of global players who no longer assume that there is also a social responsibility of companies. general motors should remember henry ford, who said, "cars don't buy cars", and used this as a justification for doubling the wages of its employees to stimulate demand. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union has some instruments, such as the directive on collective redundancies and the directive on european works councils, which are very important, but unfortunately they are always aimed at correcting something once the child has fallen into the well. what we need are preventive measures that do not leave everything to the market, all the more so if we are to take the gothenburg agenda seriously and bring about sustainable development. that is why we welcome the commission's idea of setting up a working party. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this includes increasing its attention to research and innovation of new products.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not want to go into the management errors - they have been sufficiently described - but to talk about what we can do, the commission, the council and parliament too. we must get away from the fact that we are partly making environmental legislation - very extensive, then safety legislation (pedestrian protection and the like), then mobility legislation - but have failed in the past to devise a really coherent, unified strategy for this sector. it is urgently necessary if we are not to stand by and watch european industrial jobs being destroyed. i believe that we can be optimistic about the statements made by mr rehn and mr verheugen at the hearing. the establishment of such a high level group can only be welcomed. but high level is not just the ceo of a company, it is also the representation of employees, and it is also the european parliament, along with the commission. i think this has its role models in shipbuilding. i just want to say one last thing: the old commission has not only made a name for itself with regard to industrial jobs in the automobile industry. the vw law and the design directive are just two examples of areas where we urgently need to make changes.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, mr president of the future commission, ladies and gentlemen! on 22 july, the european parliament voted by a large majority in favour of the future president of the european commission. you are here today with your team, which has been proposed to you by the governments. you, mr president-in-office of the commission, have expressed your willingness to work very closely with the european parliament. we welcome this, but we will continue to take your word in the future. we welcome the fact that you have made further commitments today. we welcome your desire to be the president of a strong commission, and you have spoken on several occasions of the policy powers you will have as president. this is also in our interest, because we need a commission with a strong president, as we have had in the history of the european union. our group has tabled a motion for a resolution. unfortunately, we have not been able to agree on a joint motion for a resolution between the groups, but our motion for a resolution will be the standard by which the commission will be followed. we expect the new commission to coordinate its political and strategic programme closely with the european parliament, and that the commission is not only here today - and it is impressive that they are all here - but also to be here permanently in parliament and in the committees during its five years in office. do not forget your responsibility to parliament when they are confirmed tomorrow. we expect the commission to take the principles of subsidiarity very seriously. we want a strong europe, but we also have the identity of our nations, the identity of our regions and, what we must not forget, the identity of our cities and towns. what are our values? the basis of our free society is respect for the dignity of every individual, tolerance, pluralism and the rule of law. everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. (applause from the centre) the strength of our european cultural identity lies in our acceptance and tolerance of cultural differences. if we stop doing this, europe will fail, i am deeply convinced of that. and that means that no one in the european union, no one in europe, no one in the world should be discriminated against, not even because of his or her religious beliefs. (applause from the centre) we want a commission with different characters, not just from all the countries of the european union, as the treaty provides. we want characters with different cultural backgrounds, with different religious beliefs, or even non-religious beliefs and convictions. if we accept this - and i have the impression that the commission team is representing this - we will have a good european future. everybody here needs to know: if this college doesn't get the confidence tomorrow, it's not about replacing one, two, three or four members, but every member of the team who presents himself to us today will be on the test. it's not about one person, it's not about two or three people, it's about the whole college, and we need to know that. on friday we will have the signing of the european constitution. we all know how difficult it is to get agreement among the peoples where the referendums are held. and please think about it, if we had a result tomorrow - i don't think it will happen, but if it did - that created the impression in the european union that we don't accept our cultural pluralism, it would be even more difficult to pass the constitution in the 25 countries of the european union. (applause from the centre) we need to know all this. i am not going to be too frank with you, ladies and gentlemen: it is a moving moment for me to see here today figures from 25 european countries. when i was elected to the european parliament in 1979, i dreamed of the day when we would have commissioners from estonia, latvia, lithuania, poland, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, slovenia, malta and cyprus. we see these personalities before us and among us today. it is our responsibility tomorrow to give this commission the confidence it needs to ensure that europe has a good future. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. it's a very impressive image that's on my right. the council of the european union feels sufficiently represented today by queen beatrix. we should take note of that. i am not saying that the commission has not done so. i am not saying that the commission should be the only one to have a problem with the council. parliament is present, and so is the commission in its entirety. well, the council may be coming. you have made remarks, mr barroso, which we all know. you have added some initiatives today, but you have not taken up an essential element of what my group has been trying to convey to you for days. the point is that we expect you to draw conclusions from a six-week process that took place here in this parliament. we have spent six weeks listening to commissioners and we have come to conclusions in five different committees - one highly controversial, concerning a single commissioner who did not have a majority in a committee, and four others where serious comments were made, serious comments which led to proposals and suggestions to you. and the answer we get again today, mr barroso, is: i am not changing anything, it remains the cut in the portfolio. that's a tough one. (applause from the centre) that's a hurdle. i can only appeal to you once more, think about it! i want to tell you that i'm gaining an impression that i want you to think about again this morning. i have the impression that you are confusing the vote of confidence in your commission with that in a national parliament. the european parliament does not know how to form a majority in opposition. the european parliament is, as you say, heterogeneous. it's made up of different currents. it is also within our groups - you have had this bitter experience - that there are very heterogeneous currents. and if you want a large majority in this house, you have to take account of these different currents and try to include them as widely as possible. the concept has been the same for weeks: i have a commission, i have distributed the portfolios and i will not change that! if this continues, then the cosmetic changes announced in the form of initiatives will not help. if this continues, it will be very difficult for us to express confidence in your commission. (applause from the centre) it's also about trust. we know that we are voting on the commission as a whole, not on individual commissioners, however controversial they may be in the end. if so, then the question of a basic trust arises. in the end, in the light of all the facts and all the perceptions associated with all the individual personalities, do we have a basic trust in this commission as a whole, as a collective body, or do we not have this basic trust? that is the question. since we cannot pick out individual points, but must decide on this basic trust in the collective, we shall be weighing this very point in the group tonight. is there this basic trust or is there not this basic trust? i have to tell you, after your speech this morning, i couldn't have gained more trust. i want to take up a point you made. you referred to the american election. yes, my group hopes that john kerry will become president. we hope he becomes president because he's someone who says the iraq war was a mistake. we want to have a president at the head of the united states who says, yes, this was a mistake. we also want someone at the top of europe to say that this was a mistake. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if this parliament expresses its confidence in your commission, you have won. then you must respect that! but if you do not have the confidence of this house tomorrow, then this is not an institutional crisis, but a normal process. a normal right exercised by a freely elected parliament over an executive. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i voted for you in july because i believe you could be a good commission president. i also voted for you because you made three promises to us, namely that there will be more women in this commission - you have kept that - that there will be no supercommissioners - you have also kept that - and you have made the promise that you will dismiss commissioners from their responsibilities, from their portfolios or altogether if they do not have the confidence of parliament. these commitments will again form the basis of our vote tomorrow. i therefore ask you, mr barroso, to take this matter very seriously once again. i am glad that you are taking a very clear economic liberal course with your commission. i am also glad that you are making human rights a top priority, but parliament is the representative of the people, the representative of the citizens of europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. this is a good step for europe and a good step for democracy. (applause from the centre)
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to emphasize that mr buttiglione's rejection has nothing to do with our desire to return to the days of prohibition of occupations, nor does it have anything to do with our desire to abolish civil liberties. for us, subjective religious freedom is something we would always defend as a constitutional right! but mr. buttiglione has turned into an agent provocateur. the agent provocateur in the new commission. he is acting on behalf of berlusconi and is thus attacking enlightened europe, and this parliament must defend itself against that, mr barroso. but we need not only talk about mr buttiglione today. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. i am a green person, and i don't want us to think that more than 20 years after the first report of the club of rome or 10 years, more than 10 years after the first climate change conference in rio, that we have learned about the ecological (the president withdraws the speaker.) (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament is becoming more political and has more political power than the treaties show. the european parliament has often been ahead of the treaties in the european constitutional reality, which is another sign that the treaties have not yet understood the development. that is why, mr barroso, the cdu-csu group, all 49 members, want you to take office, to work closely with parliament, closer than the constitution requires. now the socialists want to stop you from taking office. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's just that it's so 'normal' that it's never happened in europe before. why would you do that? there is only one reason for this, and it will remain in the public consciousness. that is the circumstance that a candidate for commissioner dared to express a religious conviction. and since that is the point of the matter, i want to clarify our position once again. we are indeed committed to non-discrimination. the state has no right to pry into such matters. and no one should be discriminated against on the basis of sexual orientation or gender. it's in the charter and the constitution. i thought you'd applaud me for that finding. at least i see a nod of approval. that's why i can tell you that i quoted. i quoted mr buttiglione's words at the hearing. and you're arguing about it. it's a laugh, ladies and gentlemen! (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, we will not be able to approve the new commission in its present form tomorrow. there are too many question marks. it begins with the president who wants to dance around on the nose of the freely elected parliament. the public eye continues to shine with mr buttiglione, who has disqualified himself as commissioner for justice and home affairs with unspeakably discriminatory remarks, and it continues to shine with other names. i would like to take the one proposed by latvia, mrs udre: it is not the european union that is the problem, but the european union. at the hearing, she promised to make amends, but that's not enough. the commissioner who is supposed to be in charge of customs and taxation is not very careful about the money. there's the veil over the funding of your party. there is a strong suspicion of dirty links with the russian oil industry, which sends much of its oil to the west via latvia, and in doing so lubricates it heavily. the citizens expect us to admit only those members of the commission who are above suspicion. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i am not sure that it will be possible to take a decision on the matter in the near future. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. two things have become clear to me in this debate. firstly, there is little doubt about the competence of commission president barroso. second, in some things, the emotions are so strong that we can't listen anymore and we can't read in full text. for this reason, we must see that mr buttiglione has expressed his support for non-discrimination, for respect for the charter, for making a distinction between morality and law, as i believe each of us can sign. i have also noted in this debate that the incompetence of some commissioners in this matter, which has been noted here, does not matter at all to many of them, if they have the right political colour. in any case, this has been completely overlooked in the debate. the conclusion i draw from this is that there are a number of colleagues who are concerned with a choice of values: political correctness instead of attachment to values that come from religious conviction. i think that is a position which we as a parliament are not entitled to adopt. we are to judge on the expertise of individuals, not on their personal religious beliefs. i think that is an important and crucial point that we should keep in mind. i therefore believe that we must introduce a little tolerance and liberalism here again, and not the dictatorship of a single, up-to-date opinion. (applause from the centre) i think that the commission should be very clear about this, and i think that since the barroso commission is approaching parliament, since it is doing a good job in the fields of foreign policy, the constitution, enlargement, which must be brought to life, the rights of the european parliament and the lisbon process, i would appeal to my colleagues: do not let them fail because of a difference of opinion on the orientation of values! (applause from the centre)
thank you very much. ladies and gentlemen, i need your attention for a moment before mr barroso has the floor. the solemn meeting with the dutch queen at 12 noon means that we cannot finish the debate, although we have tried to push for the time. that means that after the formal sitting with the dutch queen, the last three speakers will be speaking. we shall then begin the votes. i ask for your understanding. i now give the floor to mr barroso.
i am not going to go into detail. we now interrupt our debate for the formal sitting with the dutch queen and then continue the debate with three other speakers.
we in the epp group have approved the overall report, as we have just voted. we would like to point out, however, that we voted against the disclosure of individual votes at the ecb. in spite of this one vote against, we have nevertheless adopted the overall report. we are against the disclosure of the individual vote.
in writing. i have just voted in favour of the report on the ecb, on which mr lipietz has withdrawn his name. i was opposed to all amendments which would have led to a dilution. the ecb has done a very good job of maintaining price stability and has always maintained its independence. this has won the confidence of citizens and overcome some of the obstacles to the euro. we have reason to thank the then president, wim duisenberg, jean-claude trichet is on his way. the autonomy of the ecb's executive board must be preserved - i think it is wrong to publish the results of votes by name. there is sufficient transparency, since the public and parliament are directly informed of its monetary policy decisions. the quarterly 'monetary dialogue' with the economic and monetary committee and our visits to frankfurt deserve to be known by a wider public. the ecb's commitment to the stability and growth pact is exemplary. it rightly points out that the weak growth in the euro area was not caused by the pact; it leads to sustained, non-inflationary growth because of its commitment to sound fiscal policies. the 'intelligent reinterpretation' sought from within the eu commission is an unintelligent manipulation of the principles of the pact and gives tax evaders an inadmissible alibi. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the committee on the environment is a committee with a great deal of legislative power, but it is also a committee with a very small budget. and the only financial instrument for the environment, the life programme, has even been cut in the 2005 budget compared with 2004. so we're very frugal there. we are not spending even 0.25% of the european budget, that is to say, not even a quarter of a percentage point, on the environment. we also have the impression that the staff in the environment dg are not sufficient to implement the policies we want. this is also true of the directorate-general for health and consumer protection. and when we think of health, we naturally think of tobacco. i can see that. we spend more than 950 million euros on subsidies for tobacco farming. that's more than five and a half times the total for the entire environmental title. but we are only spending 14 million euros to develop alternatives for tobacco farmers. that has to change!
adopted on 16 february. the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the authorisation for the placing on the market of the medicinal product concerned to the period from 1 january 2002 to 31 december 2003. i am very grateful to mrs schreyer, ladies and gentlemen. i would like to make my contribution to the most modern parliament in the world, albeit a modest one from the point of view of the committee on the internal market. we have set clear priorities in our budgetary deliberations, particularly with regard to the lisbon agenda. it is more important to promote the lisbon agenda here in the budgetary procedure with very concrete initiatives, rather than always making frivolous declarations, whether it is the heads of state or government, or whether we ourselves are sometimes like that. we still see the single market as the core of our competition strategy and we see that there are still a number of obstacles. that is why we have proposed that we should provide the means to hold a new internal market forum to discuss with the various stakeholders the various minor obstacles which still exist in the internal market, so that we can draw up the appropriate forward-looking legislative instruments. the committee on the internal market also considers eastern enlargement to be an essential element that can promote growth, prosperity and employment, but we also note, of course, that there are still difficulties in the crossborder integration of economies. we therefore propose a pilot project for the formation of clusters in the border regions, so that strategic alliances can be forged there. we also believe that the single market still has a considerable potential for consumers to increase our competitiveness and have used the appropriate funds for food safety and animal diseases. i would like to thank you very much for your cooperation, ladies and gentlemen, and mrs schreyer for her cooperation. indeed, those who are responsible for the household create many enemies and resentments, but sometimes they also make friends. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thank you very much.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am speaking on behalf of the committee on regional policy and i would also like to express my thanks on behalf of this body to the rapporteur and the commissioner for the good cooperation they have shown over the past five years. as regards the structural funds and regional policy, the 2005 budgetary procedure has three main features. first, 2005 is the first full budget year for the europe of the twenty-five. secondly, the overall amount of regional policy appropriations in the preliminary draft budget was increased, with the increase in payment appropriations being larger than the more modest increase in commitment appropriations. thirdly, the allocation of funds shows that the transition from the pre-accession instruments to the cohesion fund support for eight new member states is continuing. the council has made cuts to the preliminary draft budget which are unacceptable to us. in the context of the budgetary procedure, the committee on regional policy has merely exercised its right to propose amendments to ensure that the amounts cut by the council are reinstated - naturally with regard to the overall level of budgetary expenditure. in short, every amendment we have requested and adopted merely restores the budget line to the draft budget and thus prevents the budget for regional policy from being cut.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. as rapporteur for the committee on culture, i would like to stress first of all that we europeans, who are so proud to be a continent of art, culture and cultural diversity, should make a joint effort in the coming years to take this into account in our budgetary policy. it is therefore not by chance that all the colleagues in the committee on culture felt that we should reject the reduction in the council for cultural policy, because we cannot make a convincing cultural policy in the europe of 25 if we make cuts in this area in 2005, the first year of the common budget. the committee on culture has therefore called on all the political groups to reinstate the commission's budgetary appropriations, particularly for the urban partnerships and information policy, in order to win the acceptance of the citizens, and for the youth programmes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. we should do something to show that we are also fighting for our wonderful europe culturally.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the legal affairs committee is also one of the modest committees on the budget. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i would just like to draw attention to one aspect which is therefore of particular importance: the european court of justice and the court of first instance shall be the subject matter of the legal committee. there is a very common complaint from the public that the procedures take a long time and that decision-making processes are concluded very late, often on matters of great importance to the citizens. the reason for this, and i can say this very clearly, is not the judges but something else entirely, namely the inadequate capacity for translating documents and papers. if this budget can make a contribution to the adaptation of the equipment of the european court of justice to the needs and circumstances of the present time, it will be a great success, and will benefit many citizens in europe, namely all those who seek justice in disputes. finally, there is no doubt that the court of justice plays a prominent role in the further development and integration of europe. i therefore think it appropriate to equip it with the necessary equipment to enable it to do its job. if this budget contributes to that, then we in the legal affairs committee will be satisfied, because one of the essential objectives has been achieved. if not everything can be achieved this year, but at least there is a continuous development in this perspective, then that too is progress. i shall conclude my remarks to the legal affairs committee.
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and gender equality. the commission is not i would also like to thank the commissioner for her support of the committee on women's rights in its efforts to promote gender budgeting over the last few years. we do not have so many budget lines to manage in our committee, so this cross-cutting policy is of particular importance to us. however, i may have to agree with commission president prodi that success is not so clear-cut everywhere. as in the lisbon strategy, we have also embedded gender budgeting and gender mainstreaming in the structural funds, but only 6% ultimately goes to gender-centred projects. that is why we have been very concerned to make progress here, also with the amendments, to establish minimum margins which should not be undermined in the major programmes, in meda, in the major cooperation programmes, also with other countries, in aid for afghanistan and for iraq. unfortunately, the committee on budgets has not followed this line; it has said that part of these sums should be used for gender-centred projects, but it is not really brave enough. if we really want change, we must set minimum standards. i think we need to discuss this and find the courage to do so. the point where the committee on women's rights has responsibilities is the framework programme on gender mainstreaming. however, we are constantly finding that we lack reliable data on how the union's funds are allocated to women and men. that is why it is a great concern to set up the gender institute. the council has also decided to do so, but it is to be budget-neutral. that means it's free, and the women can do whatever they want, as long as it's free. that cannot be the case, which is why we want to at least get a pm for the gender institute on the road. i would also like to mention one project from the daphne programme, the european year against violence. there are many ways in which the commission can help. there is no good unless you do it so let's decide the year against violence!
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. i would like to begin by expressing my great respect for the work of the outgoing commissioner. i have had the privilege of working closely with you as the spokesman for my group for the last five years and i can say that i have the greatest respect for the work you have done. because this is not an easy file, you have moved through it, and you have not always had an environment that was constantly supporting you, but you have often had to work very hard. that's why we have the utmost respect. i would also like to pay tribute to my two colleagues who are now rapporteurs. salvador garriga for the budget as a whole and anne jensen in particular. she only took on this reporting job a month ago. to do it all from scratch with such excellent quality is remarkable. that's why i have so much respect for her. the budget we are facing, ladies and gentlemen, is not an abstract figure in which only numbers are floating around, but it reflects what we want to do with policies and what we have decided to do with how the european union should develop and what it should look like. we must always bear in mind that what we spend is taxpayers' money and we have an obligation to handle it very carefully. i think it is fair to say that this parliament has always been a very careful steward of european taxpayers' money in recent years. the council has not yet taken a decision on the budget, but it is not yet in a position to give its opinion on the budget. i think we have to make sure that the resources we need to shape the policies we want to make are really available. i want to illustrate this with two or three examples. we have seen in recent years that the categories have narrowed. in category 4 it was just said that it was getting tighter and tighter. mrs schreyer rightly pointed out that in recent years we have added to category 4, foreign policy, afghanistan, we have added to iraq, we have added to the balkans. all this should be financed by the same means. the council wanted more money for its common foreign and security policy. but with us, with our cause, he cancelled. these are resources that would have been available for democratization or conflict prevention, for example. you can't do that! we cannot finance new promises for the future with the resources of past promises. it only creates confusion among the citizens. they can no longer understand what the european union really stands for. we will not be part of that, we will always put our finger in the wound. in the other area, in the field of internal policy - it has just been mentioned - we have created several additional agencies. they are agencies that do administrative work. but they are being put into an area where we want to make domestic policy, where we want to make environmental policy, research, development, education policy. all this stuff is being added in. the council is not going to be able to do that, and i am not going to be able to do that. we shall be thrifty, including in this year's budgetary procedure. we'll take a look at what we need. we will therefore take a position in the budgetary procedure, make our point and make it clear to the citizens that we will also respect and implement what we have announced in the past. we're not going to be handing out blank checks. we are not doing that in the 2005 budgetary procedure, and we will not do that in the future financing of the european union. we shall be able to count on a solid parliament. we will tell people what is necessary and also tell them where we can save. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank you once again on behalf of our green group for your work. as regards the green women's policy, i would also like to add that i am very proud and pleased that you, as the commissioner responsible for the budget, have represented us so courageously and decisively, with such a willingness to dialogue and with such competence in the so-called hard policy area over the last few years. it was a great success for us greens, but it was also a success for the whole of the european union. i'm proud of that. i wish you all the best for your future. the commission has also had the courage to raise the big question of what is going to happen to the structure of budgetary policy. you have always made it clear today, as the rapporteur, mr garriga, has, that budgetary policy is an eminently political task, that it is not just a matter of numbers that we have to manage, but that it is a matter of expressing the priorities of our political work and thus of our political identity in europe. i would like to begin by saying that we generally support the general line of our rapporteur, mr garrigas. i would like to emphasize this, as have some of my predecessors, by referring to a number of policy areas. the structural policy is getting better, the implementation is getting better, it is about solidarity and real cohesion in europe and about reducing the wealth gap. it is also self-evident that we must approve more money if things are going better. my colleague, mr walter, has just made it clear that if there are more agencies, which we wanted, the council must also be prepared to provide new money, because we cannot introduce this policy of decentralised agencies into european politics as a political competition for political advantage. the third point i would like to make is that - and i very much agree with many of the opinions of the committees - we need to give greater weight to information policy. only if we really reach the people on the ground with our projects and if we campaign for the constitution in the coming months will we be able to win more people in europe to this politically rational european project. the majority of our group supports this very approach of making european work more transparent and of arguing for europe quite openly. then foreign policy was brought up. we also believe that we must make a decisive contribution to the reconstruction of iraq. but this is not possible with the present budgetary structure. we must use the flexibility instrument. i would also like to stress - mr garriga has also said this - that there is a political will on the part of the house and the committee on budgets to oppose terrorism, the growth of fundamentalism and totalitarian thinking. we support this approach in principle, but we believe that it is absolutely necessary to argue for individual measures that are really meaningful. and as a final point, everyone in this house is always talking about the lisbon strategy. we think it's right too. but it is clear that some colleagues have different views. we are deeply convinced that growth policy cannot be separated from sustainable development. even with green ideas, with environmental measures, you can write black numbers. this is the real modern economic and innovation policy, rather than falling back into the spirit of the 1960s and decoupling economic and environmental policy. i hope that in the discussions with the other groups we shall also find compromises.
i am not saying that the commission has not been consulted on the matter. i would like to thank the commissioner for the five years of cooperation we have had with her. it was not an easy time, if you look at the beginning: the negotiations, agenda 2000. it was not an easy year either in terms of combining the various wishes and drawing up a common european budget. i would like to thank you very much for your cooperation, which has been based on trust, and i hope that you will soon be able to resume your activities at the freie universität berlin during the winter semester, so that when a new commission takes office tomorrow, you will be relieved of the burden of european work and can return to your research activities. i should also like to thank the two rapporteurs, who have managed to put together a very good package in a difficult environment. and that is what we have to discuss today, namely the question of where europe can become visible, where we can create european added value that is also recognizable to people, where our priorities lie, and where europe contributes to moving forward. i would like to make a very clear statement on the lisbon strategy. i wonder whether this strategy of establishing a competitive economy throughout europe is merely a matter of redistribution through the european budget, or whether some member states have special tasks to perform, especially when i think of the country, dear commissioner, from which you and i come, and where your party shares national responsibility for government. can we not do much more for europe's competitiveness by breaking down structures and thus helping to create real growth? that is why we should not just say that lisbon means distributing more money among the people by bypassing the european budget. we must start on the ground to make the necessary reforms possible. in this respect, lisbon - and the federal government - have already made many proposals, and i hope that they will be implemented. but to come to the budget: the administrative apparatus of the european union has grown as much as ever in the last five years, which is not only due to enlargement but also because the council has become very resourceful in building up administration, namely the agencies. i wonder if we are paying for all this from the policy areas - mr walter has raised this - where it does not belong. the council is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. foreign policy: i am tired of foreign ministers running around the countries of the world in their spending pants and then we are expected to make the new priorities appear budgetary again and again. that too has been addressed and the old priorities no longer matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner schreyer, i would like to thank you for your reply. you've done a good job and earned the respect of the house. i think we could have worked together here for another five years if there had not been a change in the composition of the commission. i'm very sorry about that. you have left us a small legacy in your speech on the size and structure of the future budget. i am in agreement with you on the substance of the matter and i thank you very much for also opposing the ideas of your own government on the need to reduce the budget. we cannot transfer new policies to the european level and refuse to provide the money. you have pointed out - and i must be careful - that the agricultural budget is substantial. that's right, you're right. but we must resist the tendency to use this budget as a quarry for the new tasks that are coming. we want a reorientation, and you have spoken of the lisbon objectives and economic development. i mean, this is rural. they say research, education and innovation. yes, we need them in the countryside. i would remind you that at the time of eu enlargement, on the basis of the agriculture committee in this parliament, we decided to allocate the funds raised for the per hectare premiums as structural aid for rural areas. it has not been followed up, and i think we will have this debate again in future years when it comes to turkey's accession. it is important to invest money in rural areas. the money is worth even more here, and the surplus value should remain in these countries too. this is sometimes more sensible than investing in certain large industrial projects. i believe that we must and will take this into account in the structure of budgets in medium-term financial planning. i hope this high house follows. i'm afraid we can't continue this cooperation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope we can ensure that this develops in the way that parliament wants. thank you very much, mrs. schreyer, for your work. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already done so. it has been said that the european union has set itself the objective of becoming the world's most powerful economic region by 2010. this requires, however, that the serious differences between member states and also the differences within the regions in the member states be eliminated. this means that - if the gothenburg strategy is taken seriously - it is not just about the economy, but that a balance is struck between economic development, social development and environmental development, all while taking into account the idea of equality. the european union is not only a single market project, it is also a solidarity project! in this respect, i cannot understand why, in the face of the expanded tasks of an enlarged european union - i recall the many clever speeches made by all sorts of government representatives - the budget should now be limited to 1% of gdp, and the budget is even lower. you have no chance of ever realizing that idea. that is why i say to the council: this is opportunistic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is unacceptable! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. once we have started down this road, we will hardly have a chance to say at some point: 'this is it, we are not going to do this anymore! the council's proposal must therefore be met with a categorical 'no' so that we can have the chance to establish a reasonable relationship between the member states for development in the most diverse policy areas between 2007 and 2013. first, you have to think about what you want to achieve and what policies you want to implement, and then you have to make the money available, not the other way around.
ladies and gentlemen, a lot has already been said about this year's strategy for parliament's 2005 budget. it has also been said that the decentralised agencies play an important role for us in the negotiations with the council. i would like to make it very clear to everyone once again that we are not against the agencies, quite the contrary: we believe that they are doing a great deal of excellent work for our common european cause. but let us be clear about one thing: the creation of new agencies has accelerated considerably in recent years. in 1990, there were only three agencies, in 1995 six, in 2000 seven and in 2005 there were already 23. we have always supported the commission in its intention to concentrate on its core competences and to transfer certain areas to agencies. but we want to do this on a case-by-case basis and under very strict political and budgetary control. the council is always in favour of the creation of new agencies. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. this applies in particular to agencies which implement european legislation. the preliminary draft budget for 2005 provides for eur 281.303 million for the agencies. this is eur 53.7 million more than in the 2004 financial year. but we must bear in mind that all but four agencies are financed under category 3, internal policies. but now the funds are running low. so there are only two possibilities: either we finance everything that is provided for the agencies without complaint and we cut appropriations from other budget lines of our priorities to collect the money; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. that's what we want. i would like to thank mrs schreyer again, as i thank all those who have gone before me. all the men who have spoken here know much better how to compliment than i do. but you know that my thanks are sincere, because michaele schreyer has led her colleagues in the commission to make really forward-looking proposals. so forward-looking that i don't think they can be implemented in my time as a member of parliament. you know what i'm talking about. it is the general correction mechanism, and it is the own resources report, with the 'window to the future' of a successive revenue system to be changed. that was very brave. all your predecessors failed to do that! at least not the two men who preceded her. i thank you very much for that. dear mrs. schreyer, women can do that! (applause from the centre)
the next item is question time, and we shall now consider the questions to the commission (doc. question no 34, by eoin ryan (h-0307/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: missing children website a missing children website, part of a global network, has now been launched in ireland. similar sites have also been set up in the usa, brazil, argentina, chile, south africa, malaysia, costa rica, mexico, canada and australia, as well as at eu level, including in ireland, belgium, the uk, the netherlands and spain. can the commission state whether eu support is available for such sites and, if so, why so few eu countries are participating in this global network? what measures can it take to ensure that each member state has its own website and actively participates in the objectives of the network, which allows the public to provide information on unsolved missing persons cases?
commission. let me say at the outset that the commission very much appreciates the work of the international centre for missing and exploited children. i greatly welcome the fact that six member states of the european union are connected with this global network on missing children, which has been set up on an american initiative. existing funding programmes, especially agis and daphne, and previously stop - which has now expired - continuously addressed the issues of child-trafficking, sexual exploitation of children, child pornography, violence against children in general and, in this context, the issue of missing children also. in particular, both stop and daphne have been used to support financially the childoscope project of the belgian organisation child focus, and also the institute for international research on criminal policy of the university of ghent, in line with the council resolution of 2001 on the contribution of civil society to finding missing and sexually exploited children. programmes, such as agis and daphne, however, focus on cooperation among eu member states. the global network on missing children, on the other hand, is a worldwide initiative and is not limited to the member states of the union. in principle, the creation of websites in the eu member states that could be used to search out and find missing children could be an appropriate subject for funding using one of the relevant funding programmes. the commission can only encourage relevant governmental administrations and civil society organisations in the member states to set up websites in the framework of the global network on missing children and submit appropriate project proposals for the relevant programmes.
commission. in reply to the first question, i am afraid the only thing we can do is to make intelligent if rather gloomy guesses about the number. it is very difficult to be precise and the accession of ten new member states to the european union does not make it any easier to give a general figure. whatever the figure is, it is far too high. that is therefore a strong argument for us to develop the website proposal which the honourable member has mentioned. i will make certain that my successors - i hope, my successors! - in the european commission are made aware of his proposal and take it seriously. this is a very worrying problem and we should, as the honourable member has said, use every possible resource, including modern technology, to try to cope with it.
question no 35 by mr proinsias de rossa (h-0339/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: human rights violations in burmait is now clear that, despite the agreement of the eu foreign ministers to burma's participation in the asem summit, the human rights situation in burma (myanmar) has not improved and aung san suu kyi has not been released. the eu foreign ministers have therefore stated that they will step up action against the burmese military leadership. what concrete steps are planned/taken to ensure that the burmese regime will release aung san suu kyi and fulfill the other demands made at the gymnich meeting in tullamore, ireland? how does the commission intend to implement these measures and the proposal to increase european aid to the burmese people?
commission. my experience over the years, not only in the case of burma but also in other cases, has been that when the commission is asked to police a sanctions regime it does so as diligently as possible. the diligence with which we pursue these policies is not always as popular with some member states as it might be. sanctions can be sometimes a rather pavlovian foreign policy reaction: what is important is to examine the credibility of sanctions and to ensure that, where you put them in place, you apply them as rigorously as possible. i was unable to give the honourable member who asked the first question all the information he would have liked, but i have tried - as i am sure that my successors will try - to be as open on this as possible. it is perfectly legitimate for parliament to want to be absolutely clear about these matters: about what is being done in the name of human rights policy in burma and about how we are trying to make a success of an objective which we presumably all share both in principle and in practice. that is, to secure the release of an extraordinarily brave woman and those who, with her, have fought not just for democracy, better human rights and civil liberties in burma but also for a better deal for an extremely talented people who have been impoverished by totalitarianism.
question no 36 by mr von wogau (h-0352/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: review of the financial regulation and the external action procurement procedure will the commission, in the light of the forthcoming review of the financial regulation, submit a proposal to simplify the external action procurement procedures, in particular as regards military and non-military crisis management measures?
commission. first it should be stated that operations having military or defence implications cannot be financed from the community budget – i have spent too long looking at the provisions of article 28(3) – and are therefore financed on an intergovernmental basis. as regards the financing of non-military crisis management operations, the rules referred to in the question are laid down not only in the financial regulation, but also in its implementing rules. the implementing rules already offer simplified procurement procedures for crisis situations in external relations, such as the use of negotiated procedures. it should be recalled that such simplified procedures constitute derogations from the normal procedures. moreover, parliament monitors their use by the commission and a special report on their use is presented every year to the budgetary authority. arrangements for crisis management operations under the cfsp are currently being reviewed in the light of the functional needs of these operations, which it should be possible to accommodate within the existing framework of rules. for the longer term, the financial regulation provides for a review every three years, or whenever necessary. the commission undertook to report on its experiences after the first two years of application of these new rules, that is, by the spring of 2005. this review will cover both the financial regulation and its implementing rules in order to see if, in the light of experience, any modifications to the rules are necessary, including the procurement rules for external actions in general and for crisis management operations in particular. i hope that is relatively clear.
i'm not going to tell you. i am of course in agreement with you that military operations are excluded from the financing of the european budget. but my question relates to the police action in bosnia and herzegovina. i have received reports that equipment has arrived here very late, so that between the identification of the need on the one hand and the arrival of the equipment on the other hand, six to eight months have passed. we in the european union have decided that we want to give ourselves the tools to deal quickly with crises, especially in our neighbourhood. but if the equipment doesn't arrive until the crisis is over, then that's certainly not what we're aiming for. i would therefore urge the commission to review this procedure, and perhaps we can do so together.
commission. i have some sympathy with what the honourable member says in relation to both bosnia and macedonia. at present, each time there is a crisis-management operation, all the necessary supplies and equipment have to be procured from scratch. however, the contracting, which obviously takes some time, cannot begin until the head of mission has been appointed and has engaged his own staff. therefore we have to find some way to allow the procurement to begin before the crisis-management operation is formally adopted so that the supplies are available as soon as the operation starts, or very shortly thereafter. we could obviously provide technical assistance with this preparatory work, but i am sure this is one of the factors that will be taken into account in the review of the implementing rules which i mentioned earlier. in my experience it is not always possible for us to operate as rapidly as we would like, and that is because of the rules which have been put in place, usually with good reasons - greater transparency, proper budgetary procedure, etc. unfortunately, when people draw up those rules they do not always think about the real world in which we have to operate.
we are now in the second part of question time. i welcome commissioner verheugen and will now turn to question no 37 by mr ferber. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities for the protection of the environment. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
question no 37 by mr ferber (h-0275/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: turkish accession to the eu: impact on the populationdoes the turkish-speaking population in turkey's neighbouring countries and the turk republics of central asia automatically have a right to turkish citizenship if they are resident in turkey?
the answer to your question is no. there is no such automaticity.
i would like to ask you this question: in your proposal for the opening of negotiations with turkey, you have provided for a complete suspension of one of the four fundamental freedoms of the internal market. do you think that this will stand up to scrutiny before the european court of justice?
commission. i cannot answer that; i do not know.
question no 39 by philip claeys (h-0311/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: torture of prisoners in turkey during his recent trip to turkey, commissioner verheugen was confronted with complaints about torture allegedly still taking place in turkish prisons. human rights watch also pointed out in a recent report that such practices are still being carried out in turkey, although not on the scale they used to be. during a press conference on 23 september, commissioner verheugen informed that an investigation team sent by the commission had concluded that there was no reason to accuse turkey of systematic violations of the rights of detainees. could the commission's observers visit prisons of their own choosing without being announced? does the commission intend to send observers regularly if the number of complaints does not decrease?
the commission. those are two very different questions. the answer to the first question is a resounding yes. the commission will continue to do all that is necessary, firstly, to help turkey in its fight against torture and ill-treatment and, secondly, to monitor developments. if necessary, special missions will of course be sent to turkey. i would like to point out that the sources you refer to in your question, mr president, who speak of systematic torture in turkey, come from a political camp which you would not normally refer to. it's diametrically opposed to your political viewpoint, and you wouldn't normally agree with judgments coming from that part of the political spectrum. i'm just pointing it out so you can sort it out. the other question is that turkey, as a candidate country, is of course obliged, like everyone else, to meet the political criteria in full. the commission considers it to be its most important task in relation to turkey to ensure that this continues to happen in the future.
question no 40 by mr czarnecki (h-0369/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: turkey's accession to the european unionthe author of the question takes note of the european commission's strategic decision to open formal negotiations with turkey on its accession to the european union. in view of the contradictory reports on this subject, can the commission say what impact the possible accession of turkey in 2014 or 2015 will have on the financial resources for the 10 new member states of the european union, in particular in the area of the common agricultural policy and regional policy?
the commission. first of all, thank you for the compliment. as in the case of poland, the question of balancing regional disparities will of course play a major role in the case of turkey, should it join. but it is really not possible to say at this stage how this will be financed. i would just like to point out that there is a ceiling of 4% of gdp for the transfer of resources to new member states and also to old member states. that means there's not an infinite amount that can be easily forwarded. but for large member states such as spain, italy and poland, this 4% threshold has never been reached and will never be reached. it is therefore reasonably safe to assume that the case of turkey, when it comes to that, cannot be compared with estonia or lithuania, but that turkey must be compared with spain or poland. then we're going to be on a whole different scale.
question no 41 by mr bernd posselt (h-0300/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: administration and justice in romania and bulgariawhat measures is the commission taking to improve the functioning of the administration and the judiciary in romania and bulgaria?
the commission. - mr president, this is a very complex subject. the commission attaches great importance to the ongoing reforms of the public administration and the judiciary in both countries. these reforms must ensure that both countries are not only able to meet the membership requirements, but above all that they are able to effectively fulfil their obligations as member states after accession. romania has made recent concrete progress, for example with the formal adoption of a strategy to accelerate public administration reform and a 2003 strategy on judicial reform, and the adoption of three basic laws on judicial reform in june 2004. however, romania has yet to ensure the successful implementation of these measures. in bulgaria, after much pressure, i myself adopted a strategy for the reform of public administration over a year ago, and its implementation is also progressing well overall in bulgaria. however, i must make it clear that considerable efforts are still needed to improve the organisation of work, the administrative capacity required to implement the acquis and, in particular, the management structures of the bulgarian administration. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the eu's new strategy for the prevention of corruption and organised crime. the commission will closely monitor further developments in this area. the commission has supported these reforms with pre-accession assistance and in close cooperation with other donors, including the member states. public administration reform and judicial reform are among the top priorities to be promoted under the phare multiannual programming for 2004-06. in addition, informal committees on public administration reform and judicial reform have been established to conduct a structured dialogue with both countries on these issues and to monitor and support the development of operational capacity in both areas.
i'm not going to tell you. thank you. thank you. i have received massive requests from citizens in my constituency after the summer holidays, relating to this issue, particularly the extremely slow progress of the bulgarian-romanian and bulgarian-turkish borders, which were often interrupted for up to 12 hours at a time. the issue of corruption was also raised in a very substantial way. i would like to ask you about both, both the border checks and the question of corruption, because of very specific complaints.
the commission. i am, of course, familiar with these complaints, and i am sure that some of us have the same complaints. in all cases, the commission will investigate these complaints. as far as border clearance is concerned, we are working with both countries to improve this system - not always successfully, as it turns out - and the programmes are not yet completed. but overall we think we can see an improvement. as regards corruption, you know that i have raised this issue very often here in parliament and that in all our progress reports we have called on romania and bulgaria to be more forceful, more transparent and more decisive in the fight against corruption. there are signs in both countries. but overall, i must make it clear that i am not yet satisfied with the level of anti-corruption in both countries and that this was at the top of the list of areas in my talks with both regions where the commission expects significant improvements to be made. in any case, i would like to make it clear that we must see effective legislation and effective institutions to combat corruption before romania and bulgaria can join.
question no 43 by mr papastamkos (h-0333/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: community action for border regions - greece the community action to combat the effects of enlargement in regions of eu member states sharing a common border with the candidate countries also included five greek regions. the commission itself has taken the view that (western, central and eastern) macedonia and thrace are by far the most disadvantaged in terms of income, labour market dynamics, infrastructure and human resources. can the commission therefore state what its assessment so far is of the use of community funds for these regions? what will be the direction of community action after 2006 in view of the prospective accession of bulgaria and romania and the start of accession negotiations between the eu and turkey, especially in view of the fact that greece borders all three candidate countries? what measures have been taken with regard to crossborder infrastructures aimed at integrating the territories?
commission. - thank you very much, mr president, for your kind acknowledgement. let me try to explain this in my own words. greece has three different programmes in its north. we have the programmes relating to crossborder cooperation with bulgaria, a future member state. as soon as bulgaria becomes a member, this programme will expire and instead there will be a normal interreg programme on the border between bulgaria and greece, as is the practice between member states. but that doesn't mean it's less money. it's just a different program. greece has a joint programme with the neighbouring countries of albania and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which are not yet candidate countries. that is why we have a different programme. the commission plans to combine these instruments into a single neighbourhood programme for simplification. this will be the case throughout the next financial year. i do not feel that we are going to have less resources at this frontier, quite the contrary, considering the high priority given to the western balkan countries in our strategic considerations. thirdly, we have the border with the candidate country turkey, where, as a result of the intensive cooperation which is now being established with turkey, resources are being made available in an increased scale in this border region as well. in general, it can be said that the situation in the greek border regions will change in some cases purely technically, but that it is not necessary to expect that there will be a loss of resources, rather the opposite.
question no 44 will be answered in writing. question no 45 by mr sjöstedt (h-0313/04) subject: the commission's proposal to the council on the future of the european union subject: future of the alcohol monopoly companyin spring 2004, advocate general phillipe leger of the european court of justice argued that the state pharmacy monopoly was contrary to the community competition principles. the judgment in the so-called hanner case is expected later this year, but in general the european court of justice follows the opinion of the advocate general. in view of this attitude towards pharmacies, how does the commission assess the future of the swedish alcohol monopoly?
the commission mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although the court of justice may adopt the opinion of the advocate general, it must be stressed that this opinion is not legally binding, either on the commission or on any other party. the same applies to the opinion delivered on 25 may 2004 by advocate general léger in case c-438/02 åklagaren v krister hanner, concerning the compatibility of apoteket, the monopoly for the distribution of medicinal products in sweden, with certain provisions of the treaties relating to the free movement of goods and the right of establishment (articles 28, 31 and 43). as regards systembolaget, the distribution system for alcoholic beverages in sweden, the court of justice has already ruled on the compatibility of that monopoly with article 31 of the treaty in its judgment of 23 october 1997 in franzén. the structure and operation of state monopolies must be organised in such a way as to exclude any discrimination between nationals of member states as regards the conditions of supply and disposal, so that trade in goods from another member state is not disadvantaged de jure or de facto in comparison with a national product. after a thorough examination of the systembolaget system as regards the points of sale, the choice of products and the promotional activities, the court decided that the monopoly sales structure of systembolaget was compatible with article 31 of the treaty. as things stand, the franzén judgment provides the commission with legal guidance in assessing the compatibility of systembolaget with eu rules.
commission. i have nothing to add at this stage.
question no 46 by mr willy meyer pleite (h-0319/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: situation of shipyards in spain the workers of the ten spanish state-owned shipyards, which are grouped together in the izar company, are currently organising numerous demonstrations and strikes in various spanish cities in protest against the industrial restructuring plan of the state industrial joint stock company sepi for this sector, which provides for the separation of military and civil shipyards and the privatisation of the civil ones. this situation is due to the fact that the former aznar government granted 'illegal' aid to the state shipyards amounting to eur 1.1 billion, which must now be repaid to the european commission. does the commission intend to negotiate the repayment of this illegal aid in order to prevent the spanish yards from being broken up and closed down? does the commission not consider that these aids should be declared 'legal' in order to ensure the viability of the spanish yards?
commission. it is rather unusual to talk about the policy intentions of the commission when - this parliament permitting - the term of office of the present european commission is only seven more days. they will be very intensive days, at least for competition policy. as far as the question on shipbuilding is concerned, and without, of course, committing our successors to a policy along the lines i have just described - namely, rigorous control of compliance with the existing, fairly generous rules for this sector, as well as active measures to promote, in cooperation with the industry, the sector's development - i would expect this kind of policy to be pursued.
question no 47 by luciana sbarbati (h-0328/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia the scheme of tax relief, which was 'illegally introduced by italy' because it had not been notified in advance and which was 'incompatible with the common market' because it was in breach of european state aid rules, was introduced in 2002 for the benefit of 1600 municipalities in northern italy, some of which had never been affected by a natural disaster. why was the measure not examined until two years after the entry into force of the decree and one year after the last date for implementation of the measures? why was the rejection of the tremonti-bis law announced before the interdepartmental consultation was completed? what measures does the commission intend to take to ensure that the amounts wrongfully recovered by the state actually revert to the state, at least in so far as they exceed the damage suffered by the beneficiaries?
the commission i can simply thank mr sbarbati very much for his words, thank you.
commission. unfortunately europe, like every other area of the world, is no stranger to national disasters. there have been a number in recent years. i am sure that some of us will remember the huge floods in germany and austria only a few years ago. with the support of parliament, the commission has tried to put in place appropriate mechanisms, within the limits of the financial resources available. these included the monitoring of state aid - subsidies or contributions from national budgets - and also direct contributions from the community budget. as regards the 'tremonti bis' law referred to in mrs sbarbati's oral question, the commission was not questioning whether companies suffering the consequences of natural disasters should be helped. the issue was whether the way the law was formulated enabled that objective to be met.
question no 48 by mr staes (h-0331/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: inquiry into the market for ink cartridgesin its reply to written question e-0699/03 oj c 33 e, 6.2.2004, p. 71. the commission states that it has recently initiated proceedings concerning, inter alia, ink cartridges and printers. it is currently examining the behaviour of several undertakings on the markets concerned in the light of the community competition rules. can the commission state what progress it has made in this matter and whether the cartridge and printer market has passed the examination for compatibility with the community competition rules? if not, can it provide any reasons for the termination of the investigation?
commission. thank you for that observation. i can assure you that the commission will make public all the relevant elements. we are not yet in a position to find out whether there has been an infringement. you will certainly be aware that the commission does not have the role of a price regulator. we live and work in a social market economy and it is of paramount importance that the commission ensures that the conditions for competition are in place, pursuant to european law. these may or may not lead to consumers perceiving prices to be high. it would not be right in an efficient market economy for the commission to set prices. this is not an option. but i am sure that just as this commission did, the incoming commission will closely monitor all the phenomena which might violate competition rules, causing adverse effects for european consumers.
i thank you very much, commissioner monti. i shall conclude my questions to you here, so that questions nos 49 and 50 will be answered in writing. we're moving on to the next complex of issues. questions to commissioner byrne
question no 51 by mairead mcguinness (h-0287/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: global food safety standards at a time when food markets are becoming more globalised, a trend that will intensify with the growing role of the wto, many countries outside the eu do not have the same standards as the eu in terms of animal welfare, food safety and environmental legislation. does the commission therefore not also consider that greater emphasis should be placed on the labelling of foodstuffs from non-eu countries with regard to country of origin and production methods, in order to ensure clear information for consumers? does the commission not think that it would be fairer for food producers in europe and more in the interests of european consumers if the same food safety standards as those in the eu were applied in these other countries?
i'm sorry to interrupt you, sir. from what i've heard so far, that doesn't apply to the question, and you can only ask specifically about the subject here. question no 52 by catherine stihler (h-0288/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: reaction to recent studies on foetal alcohol syndrome (fas) the extent of fetal alcohol syndrome (fas) and the best recommendation for expectant mothers remain controversial. a recent study by dr. raja mukherjee, london, has found that the intake of any amount of alcohol can be harmful and that one in every 100 newborns is harmed by their mother's drinking during pregnancy, but the dark figure is very high. studies in the united states, south africa, and scandinavia show that 1 in 300 infants is affected by fas. affected children may have problems with memory, concentration, hyperactivity, physical abnormalities, and a decreased iq. further research on fas is necessary. however, high levels of alcohol consumption are known to be harmful to the unborn child, and some eu governments recommend a limit of 1 to 2 units of alcohol per week for pregnant women. does the commission therefore intend to introduce eu legislation requiring that alcoholic beverages be labelled with a warning about the potential harm to unborn children?
commission. thank you for that supplementary question and for your kind words, mrs stihler. i appreciate that. as you may know, dg sanco is at present preparing a community strategy to reduce alcohol-related harm, as called for in the council conclusions in 2001. several areas for action have been identified as key areas. one of them is consumer information, to improve awareness of the risks connected with the consumption of alcoholic beverages. at the moment the draft proposals concern the legal and practical feasibility of having health warnings on the containers of alcoholic beverages, as well as at points of sale. these would include information on, for instance, pregnancy. if the public health authorities do not move in and occupy the field, it might well be occupied by industry. that is not entirely satisfactory, because the information being made available by the industry might not be consistent with best public health practice. i look forward to further discussion of this important issue in the future.
question no 53 by mr papadimoulis (h-0298/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: situation of slaughterhouses in greecethe commission's food and veterinary office carries out regular inspections in the member states to check, among other things, whether the community rules on hygiene in slaughterhouses are being complied with. following the recent inspection visits to greece, can the commission state to what extent greek slaughterhouses and meat markets, such as the rendi meat market in athens, are in line with european standards? does the commission consider that the modernisation measures are satisfactory or that there are still shortcomings in the control of food safety in greece? what measures has it taken or will it take to ensure that greece complies with its obligations under the relevant community legislation?
commission. two inspections carried out by the commission's food and veterinary office in greece, in july 2003, march and april 2004, revealed breaches of community requirements with regard to procedures for licensing abattoirs and respect of hygiene requirements. these findings confirm the results of earlier fvo missions. based on commission recommendations, commitments were received from the greek authorities on action to rectify these deficiencies. as regards the new rentis market, there has been slipping in the timetable notified by the greek authorities for its construction. according to our latest information, the construction works are scheduled for completion in mid­2006. despite the fact that the commission has had a number of high­level contacts with the greek authorities in recent years about the food control system, progress has not been satisfactory. this relates to the specific issue of insufficient staffing levels in the greek veterinary service to ensure effective implementation of eu veterinary legislation. that is why, in may 2004, the commission sent a letter of formal notice to the greek authorities urging them to remedy this situation. in the absence of appropriate assurances from the greek authorities, the commission sent a reasoned opinion to greece on 18 october, asking the greek government to address effectively the problem of understaffing in its veterinary services within a period of two months. failure to do so could lead the commission to bring the case before the court of justice. the commission is also considering similar action in relation to the control systems in greece for the approval of red meat establishments. the commission has been keeping the situation in greece under close review and intends to continue to ensure that the necessary corrective actions are taken.
question no 55 by mr bowis (h-0342/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: mental health policy and bed netscan the commission confirm that the 2005 work programme places greater emphasis on mental health? does it also confirm that respect for human rights and humane treatment are essential prerequisites for good practice in the field of mental health in the european union? does it welcome the declarations by hungary and slovenia that lattice beds must be abolished and will it pursue their further use in the czech republic and slovakia? will it also honour dr jan pfeiffer, who was named one of the european heroes of 2004 by time magazine for his campaign for the humane care of mentally ill people without beds in the czech republic?
commission. i should like to respond to my friend john bowis' kind words to me by saying how much i have appreciated working with this parliament over the last five years on issues relating to public health, and not least with one of the leaders in parliament on this subject: mr bowis himself. it has been a pleasure for me to work so closely with such experts in the field for the benefit of our citizens here in the european union. i accept his invitation to repeat what i have just said in relation to this issue, that the protection of those with disabilities, particularly those with mental health disorders in the european union, is of paramount importance. their human rights and dignity ought to be respected by all member states. this is something that i believe is appropriate, i believe the commission believes it is appropriate, and i am happy to hear that this house takes the same view.
thank you very much, commissioner. i would like to join you in your remarks, and also to thank you for your work.
commission. i should like to respond very briefly to my old friend, mr crowley, and thank him very much for his kind words. we have worked together and i now look forward to a deep friendship in the future.
thank you very much, mr crowley. we'll take what you said to the record. i should like to conclude the question time at this point. questions 56 to 93 will be answered in writing.
i have two minutes to think about it, but i would like to say this: the demand made by mr mote is of course contrary to the legal position of the european union. i say this to make it clear in the minutes that mr mote has made a claim which is unlawful.
the council, the president-in-office, let me begin by expressing in particular how pleased i am to be here in your midst, especially in the light of the questions which were raised during the very important debate on the commission which i attended yesterday. the reason for my absence was also specifically asked. it's simple, i was to escort the queen of the netherlands here and be present at her nomination. but above all, please be assured that we are following very closely everything that is said here on this very important point of parliament's decision-making on the new commission. we, as the presidency, are in close contact with all those involved and do not miss a word. you can be sure of that! this does not mean that we as the presidency are not a party to this important debate between you as parliament and the new president of the commission. as much as we feel involved in this, it is a matter of mature democracy that you, as a parliament, are discussing the new commission president. i would like to make it clear that no one, not even the presidency, would deny you as a parliament any right to take decisions as you see fit. that too is consistent with the mature democracy that is europe. you have that right and i trust that you and parliament will take a wise and well-considered decision as soon as possible. i would also like to thank you for the encouraging words which many of you have addressed to the presidency and the forthcoming european council, and for the agreement you have expressed in many cases with the subjects and the way in which they are being discussed. of course, then you can disagree about the content, and that's exactly how it should be. the only general criticism i have heard of the role of the presidency is from the dutch socialist member of parliament, mr van den berg, but otherwise i feel generally strengthened by the way we are going as a presidency. as regards the forthcoming european council, many of you have called for attention to be paid to the lisbon strategy. i would therefore like to point out formally that the spring council, as you know, is the crucial council, the decision-making council, in the whole of the lisbon strategy, and that you should regard the activities which the european council will now be carrying out in november as preparation for this spring council under the luxembourg presidency. nevertheless, there is a great deal at stake and i very much agree with everyone - mr verheugen was the first to say so with great emphasis - that it is of enormous importance to give a new impetus to this lisbon strategy, that is to say to the development of the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world. i also agree with many of those who have said: i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. i also agree very much with the many who said: look at national governments. do not try to shift the matter to brussels! but let us realise that the lisbon agenda is first and foremost the responsibility of national governments, and that they must do more than talk. mrs thyssen was one of the first to stress this, but mr watson, mr eurlings and others also stressed the importance of daring to carry out structural reforms at national level. this is precisely the subject which will be discussed at the informal dinner with the heads of government. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms and will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms. some have pointed out that the balance in the lisbon strategy, as presented here by the presidency and discussed in the european council, is not the right one, because too little attention would be paid to the other components, besides economic growth as such, namely the social component and the environmental component. i can assure those who have pointed out this, such as mr van den berg and mrs frassoni, and others, that we are maintaining that balance. of course the council will have to speak and draw its own conclusions, but the presidency will be insisting in the council on the three pillars which the lisbon strategy had and must continue to have. i therefore strongly disagree - and that was also one of the sharper remarks made by mr van den berg - that this is a conservative approach and intention. on the contrary, i think that we should promote economic growth in a progressive and progressive way in conjunction with those other two pillars. it is also a good thing that the former social democrat prime minister of the netherlands, mr kok, is chairing this task force for the mid-term review and will be presenting his report. i do hope that the council can use that as a good starting point for further discussion. some of you have rightly and understandably mentioned the other important item which is on the agenda of the forthcoming european council as being more decisive in a certain sense, namely justice and home affairs, with many rightly saying that we must not lose our resolve after the terrible attack in madrid. we must use this energy to take real steps in the field of data exchange and greater police and judicial cooperation. mr eurlings and mr bourlanges and many others rightly pointed this out. that's exactly what we're doing. that process is under way, as you know, and i am particularly positive about the steps being taken. we'll talk about this. we will also be talking about this in december, because then we will have the real report of the counter-terrorism coordinator and we will be discussing it in the european council. it has also been rightly pointed out that, in the great need to achieve further cooperation and also further possibilities and measures in the fight against terrorism, we must not lose sight of the essential fundamental human rights and freedoms. mr watson and others have noted that. this important point will certainly be discussed in this way at the european council and the european council in december. some, mrs frassoni and mr catania, asked for more specific ideas on asylum and migration policy. there has been talk of camps, although we would not call them that, but rather would talk of reception facilities in the region. cooperation is needed with the third countries from which asylum seekers come. the presidency proposes to tackle the problems at source through closer cooperation with third countries and hopes that this approach can also be endorsed and decided upon at the european council. this means that we must show genuine commitment on our part, but also have to expect something from those third countries when it comes to migration and asylum. the principle of qualified majority voting and co-decision in the whole area of asylum and migration is very important and has been rightly mentioned by many people, including eurlings, bourlanges, rühle and others. i fully understand the wish of all those who have spoken about this to do so in this area. it's a difficult discussion, i can't deny that. you know that the presidency is on the line indicated by some of you here, knowing that we should indeed go as far as possible in that direction. we, as the presidency, are doing our utmost to ensure that this happens. i hope therefore that we can reach a sufficiently positive decision in this direction. some of you have mentioned a third item which is also on the agenda of the next european council and which concerns the problem of communicating europe, namely promoting greater involvement of citizens in europe, in what you are doing here, in what the council is doing, in what the commission is doing, in what we are doing in brussels. there have been various comments on this, but in all cases it was agreed that this subject should be tackled more vigorously and better, because we cannot continue to distribute leaflets in the same way and then just hope that the citizen will finally understand how good and important the work we are all doing here is. in this sense i also agree with mr piotrowski, for example, who says that not just one story should be told, but also the critical stories, the sceptical stories. yes, please let us not be afraid of criticism, let us not be afraid of critical debate, let us not be afraid of clashes between different institutions such as a parliament and a commission, when it comes to the maturity of democracy, when it comes to promoting debate because debate will ultimately be the most important thing to get citizens more involved in europe. if they see that important decisions are being taken here on matters on which there can be differences of opinion and on which citizens also have an opinion, then they will become involved in europe in that way and then, i say to mr battilocchio, europe will be less distant than it is for many people today. in practical terms, mrs sbarbati, this does indeed cost money. the commission, the council and the national authorities will have to make some sacrifices to make this work. if i may say one thing: the dutch presidency has promoted the idea of a television programme on the eve of the european council in december, which will be broadly accessible, confront people and address the issues discussed there, and the dutch presidency is also putting money into this. finally, as regards other subjects which have been raised, such as the enlargement mentioned by mr verheugen. it is not the intention to discuss the substance of this at this european council, as it is scheduled for the european council in december. there will of course be a presentation and we all know the important and very valuable report by the commission on this subject. i would like to join them in the compliments which mrs de keyser and others have paid to the commission, and in particular to mr verheugen, on the valuable nature of the report before us. i also agree with the comments made by her and others on turkey, namely that we must concentrate on the different aspects, on the opportunities and the positive aspects. but i also think that mr verheugen made a very sensible remark when he said: the commission has also taken into account the concerns that exist and we have also taken them into account in the proposals we have put forward and have also mentioned the possible consequences. finally, mrs frassoni asked specifically about the turkish cypriot part of cyprus and what the council intends to do there. it is not on the agenda of the european council, but i can tell you and through you to her that her very remark that we as the european union cannot leave the turkish cypriot part of cyprus in the cold is at the heart of what the presidency has taken as a guideline following the negative result of the referendum. this is also why, as you know, we are working hard with others to get as far as possible in direct aid and direct trade during our presidency. we want to continue to work in that direction. i hope that i have mentioned the main points and have responded to the points raised by parliament. i hope you will excuse me, mr president, after this intervention. we shall also be following the commission's statements, word for word. but i do not think that this should be done in person. if you would allow me to withdraw now, i would be happy to do so. otherwise, of course, i will remain here at your request.
we are a free country, minister. you can't be forced to stay here. we are glad you are here, but if you cannot stay here and are still informed of what is being said here, then you are certainly fulfilling your duties.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the lisbon treaty is actually quite simple: we have fallen behind our own standards in the key areas of productivity, growth and employment. there are two reasons for this: the first is due to factors over which we have little control, such as external indicators, world economic influences, oil prices, etc., while the second, which we have a great deal of control, is due to the fact that the lisbon project has rarely been transformed into a national project at the level of the member states. since the lisbon project is, for the most part, outside the community framework and must be implemented at national level, it will now be necessary to encourage the member states to draw up national implementation plans and to make the lisbon project the focus of their national policies. otherwise it won't work. i agree with mr watson that whether we are as good as the americans in 2010 is an interesting question, but it is probably not the decisive one. what i think is realistic for 2010 is to reverse that trend. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. as regards the relationship between the lisbon strategy and the environment and social framework, let me be clear: we want the highest possible environmental and social standards. this is simply an indisputable foundation of european policy. but if we want to have the highest possible environmental and social standards, then we also need the most competitive economy possible. we need competitive industries and competitive companies. the question of competitiveness is not about making the greatest possible profits for individuals, but about making our economies strong enough to meet the great social goals of high environmental and social standards. the truth is that in europe we use formulas which conceal completely different ideas. i noticed that in this debate. for example, there were very different ideas about the european social model: it has been argued that we have too high a level of protection for workers in europe. it has been argued here that we have too few social rights. it has been argued here that we need reforms in the sense of a reduction in social rights; it has been argued here that we need reforms in the sense of more social rights. there is no consensus in europe on what this term 'social model' actually means. if i have the opportunity in the next few years to be involved in this policy area, i will not be part of this policy of concealment and silence. i will make it clear that there are conflicts here, that these conflicts must be named, that the decisions must be made in full awareness of the fact where the conflicts actually lie, and that these empty formulas and code words, behind which in reality completely different views are hidden, do not help to solve our problems. i'm sorry if i've been a little harsh, but sometimes, if you want to achieve a political goal, you have to be comfortable with the truth. and the truth is that there is no agreement on how to organise the relationship between the highest possible environmental and social standards on the one hand and competitiveness on the other. but we'll work on it. let me say a few words about two other subjects that have been raised. i am grateful to mrs frassoni for bringing up the subject of cyprus again. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i do not wish to hide my deep disappointment that it has not been possible to keep the promise that this parliament, this council, this commission and the entire international community made to the turkish cypriots after the referenda in april. the promise was that they would not suffer because the referendum was rejected in the greek part of cyprus. we promised them that we would lead them out of their economic isolation. the council has not been able to adopt the commission's proposal in this respect and i urge not only the government of the republic of cyprus but also some other member states to ensure that the policy of the international community and the european union towards cyprus is implemented. the negative consequences are already visible. we have worked for years to get a democratic, pro-european government on the turkish side in cyprus. this government has failed because denktash and his people were able to use the argument that the europeans had made empty promises and not kept them, as usual. the damage already done to the solution of the cyprus problem is immeasurable and the commission is pressing very strongly for its proposal to be adopted before the end of this year and for the promise we have all made to the turkish cypriots to be honoured. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr buzek said something very important. the commission supports the view that the accession of the ten has provided a strong positive economic impetus. our analysis clearly shows that enlargement has led to positive economic outcomes not only in the new member states but also in the old member states, that we are integrating growth regions and that both sides are benefiting. and we can expect the same with regard to the forthcoming accessions of romania and bulgaria. and i personally, and i can only say this for myself, firmly believe that continuing the process of political and economic reform in turkey over the next ten years will lead to an economic situation in turkey which, in the event of accession, will put us in the same win-win situation as we have already experienced with the enlargement to include the countries of eastern and central europe. this answers the question whether such an accession would jeopardise our social model, and the answer to that question is a clear no. there will be no threat to our social standards from these accessions. on the contrary, they will make europe stronger and help us achieve our objectives. (applause from the centre)
the french authorities have informed me that mrs simonot will be replaced by mr le rachinel with effect from 22 october. i welcome our new colleagues and remind them that, under rule 3 (5) of the rules of procedure, every member has full rights to participate in the meetings of parliament and its institutions until his mandate has been examined or a decision on a challenge has been taken. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. thank you very much, mr president. i would like to ask you on behalf of my group and, i believe, on behalf of other groups: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we want to discuss the way things are going in our group.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not we are at a crucial moment in the european union's, parliament's and the commission's relations. our group has just been discussing, but in order to give a voice to all those who wish to speak - not all have been invited - we should be in favour of suspending the sitting now, because we need the widest possible basis for what we will decide when we come back here. that is why i support the motion to suspend the sitting. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the future president of the european commission, josé manuel durão barroso, who was elected by a large majority on 22 july, took the initiative today. (cheers and applause) he's showing leadership. (applause from the centre) and we expect a strong european commission under the presidency of josé manuel durão barroso (vibrant applause) and we are also looking forward to a strong european commission. the commission president said he had no proposal today, that he needed more time. mr president of the commission, i say to you on behalf of our group of the european people's party and the european democrats: we have always supported you in the last few weeks, and you can be sure that we will also support you in the difficult days and weeks ahead, so that you can lead a strong commission under your determined leadership. (applause from the centre) the commission's proposal has received wide support today. (cheers and applause) we would have liked to have had a positive vote on your team today. i don't want to keep it a secret. but politics is a process. i hope that everyone in the european union recognizes that this european parliament has influence and power, and we are in the process of parliamentarizing the european union. that is why this is an important day, also in the history of the european parliament. (applause from the centre) it has always been the strategic objective of our group to have a strong commission under your presidency and not to isolate a single member of your team. we must take the outcome of the hearings as a whole and draw the necessary conclusions. (applause from the centre) on this basis it will be your task, together with all those concerned and also with the council, to take the right decisions. we must also ensure that the future president of the commission can ultimately reject the candidates proposed to him, so that you are not the proxy of governments. on this basis, our group believes that we do not need a resolution today. we as a parliament now have a responsibility to assume. we want, in a difficult time - and on friday the constitutional treaty will be signed in rome - a strong european parliament, a strong commission and a council of ministers that works well with both institutions. we believe in the future of europe and we wish you, mr president-in-office of the european commission, every success in presenting your team, which we hope will then be able to vote for with a large majority. we'll be there to support you along the way. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, mr president-in-office of the commission! (disturbance) mr. president, perhaps the medical service has some tranquilizers for the gentleman. (applause from the right) mr president, i am happy to give two minutes of my time to the hooliganism in the european union. it's unbearable. these are the people who claim to speak for european citizens! you should be ashamed of yourself, you little brat! (applause from the right)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the decision we have to take today is a decision of great importance for the european union and its future. we have had lively discussions and lively debates in the last few weeks. the decision of my group yesterday evening, which was unanimous, was preceded by serious, serious discussions and serious arguments, which we also had in our own ranks. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the report by mr de gucht, which i am sure will be of great help to the council. after long discussions last night with them too - and i am addressing them to you in particular - i would like to say that they were the outstanding figures in the proposed commission. the decision we took last night is that we could not trust the commission, which you, mr barroso, had proposed this morning or which you intended to propose, despite everything. i do not want to return to the lively debate we had, but i would like to say this: you have seen this morning and yesterday, in the course of the day and last night, that there was no majority for this proposal. you've drawn the right conclusion. you have come one step closer to parliament. i would like to say to you on behalf of my group that this is the right step. what you are doing this morning is opening the way to a future shared by all of us, by the commission and by a large majority in the european parliament. (applause from the centre) i am pleased to hear that mr poettering has agreed with this development. it is never too late, mr poettering. welcome to the club of those who have said, we must strengthen the european parliament even if the debate is shortened, if it is reduced to a formulation which says: the european parliament is only rational if it agrees with the commission. no, those who want a strong commission to be able to work in the european parliament on a broad basis, those are the ones who want a strong commission, supported by a strong parliament, to be able to solve the real challenges of the coming years. the commission is a european institution. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets, which are not in line with the commission's proposals. that is why a large majority is required. (applause from the centre) we have made various proposals to you in recent weeks, mr barroso. my group expects you to take into account the proposals made by the european parliament at the end of the hearings in your future deliberations. i say to you on behalf of my group that we also expect you to take into account what the socialist group has said to you, because one thing is clear: you will also need the support of my group for your future commission. we are offering you cooperation, but you must also take seriously what the socialist group is offering you. on 22 july they had 413 votes, including some of my group's colleagues. a large part of my group did not vote for you at that time. but it was a great vote of confidence that you got back then. you've been putting a piece of that loan on the line for the last three months. you've recovered a piece of that credit by your decision today. we are ready, as the socialist group, to cooperate constructively, and you have also taken the path of constructive cooperation today - something we have sometimes missed in recent weeks. if we are to reach a result in the next few weeks, i have a request: do not come back with the same commission as you would have proposed today! we could have voted today. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre and the right)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his report and to emphasize the importance of strengthening relations and intensifying cooperation between the european union and india. it took too long for us to understand the significance of india. we've been treating other countries in the region, like china, differently than we've been treating india for a long time. so we're pleased that the relations are intensifying on the part of the european union, but also on the part of many national governments, if you think about the travel activity recently. india, as many speakers have pointed out before, is the largest democracy in the world, with diverse religions, diverse cultures, diverse ethnicities, and it is also an emerging economic power. we are therefore well advised to give the country the importance it deserves, for the benefit of both sides. however, i believe that part of being honest, being friends and being in honest relationships is not hiding the problems of each other, but talking openly about them. from the indian point of view, this includes the question of the partly rigid import restrictions which we in the european union still have on india. the indian side is right to raise this issue, and we should consider whether fair trade, for example, could not help india more than development aid has so far done. i think a critical examination is necessary here. i would add, however, that for us this clearly includes the question of human rights. we are pleased that there is a hint of a possible solution to the kashmir conflict in india-pakistan relations, and we welcome this. we also expressly demand and wish that nuclear disarmament be urgently promoted throughout the region for the safety of the people living there. and as i have already indicated, the issue of human rights must not be left out of the discussions with india, from the role of women to caste, these issues also belong in the context.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it has become clear in this house today that democratic processes can bring progress and change. belarus for the people there this is a dream. we must also note that the european union continues to watch the emergence of a stalinist dictatorial system on its doorstep. the list of violations of democratic rights and human rights is long. the list of victims grows longer every day. many people in belarus have long since resigned. those who can, leave the country. there is no hope. only by such methods could lukashenko secure his power. i am very dissatisfied with the statement by the council and the commission because it really does not bring anything new. the claim that there is a framework is not true. it's true that there's only one piece of paper. there is not really a change of attitude that focuses specifically on the situation in belarus and looks at what measures can be taken to support the opposition and civil society there. not all concrete instruments offer this possibility. they must be changed. we must put this on the agenda now because it is urgent today, not some day. i would like to remind you of the marset campos report by parliament, which clearly states what must be done now. only through a democratic belarus can we ensure our security. that is why i do not think we should be playing the russian card, but a democratic belarus.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i agree with mr verheugen that the commission is right. unlike in neighboring belarus, we will see a really exciting head-to-head race between two strong personalities in the presidential election in ukraine. the citizens there really do have a choice. nevertheless - and many colleagues have already anticipated this - we are looking with concern to this weekend and to this election process, because an unfair battle with tough bandages is looming. president kuchma is waving the whip for his favorite candidate, and is using government officials and the television to support him. we demand from this place - and i support mr wiersma - that this should be stopped now and that there should be a chance for a fair electoral process. i join the presidency in calling for and regretting that local election observers could not be sent because this was a central democratic factor in the election for the population, as was shown in the last election. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training. that is why it is so important that any miscalculation is prevented and that this election is truly democratic. i trust the people of ukraine, but i also ask the presidency and the commission to ensure that the action plan gives a central role to the support of democratic structures and above all to civil society, and that it is given priority over economic development, because we still have a fragile democratic development in ukraine. it needs to be fixed.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already done so. ukraine plays a very important role for the member states of the european union. it shares a border with three member states, which of course creates a socioeconomic link. it also has a strong influence when you look at the relationship as a whole. ukraine also plays a major role in relation to moldova. she's got to be involved there, too. i have lived in this country for six years of my life and i have known ukraine for over thirty years. i tell you, ukraine is on a path that is clearly leading to democracy. we should be a little more reserved about demands for uncanny speed and transformation. some things just take time. what is being discussed here? of course there are always concerns. if russia supports a particular candidate, you can say that's a problem. but then, of course, there is also the problem of tony blair supporting mr bush in the united states. and when it is mentioned that certain votes of voters abroad are to be verified also a lot of americans are allowed to vote in germany , this is nothing unknown. the first is always assumed a priori to be in great danger of not respecting the democratic rules of the game, and the second ... we also know that in the last presidential election in florida, there was a lot of controversy, so to speak, about the votes of the electorate. we should have faith in ukraine.
i need advice. yes, mr president, i too apologize for the confusion about the questioner. it's all very clear to me now. i am a little less clear, if i may be so bold, as to who the question is being asked. as the presidency, i cannot add much to what i have just said and i must refer to the commission for factual information. the honourable member points out that the difference is that countries can, of course, and do, have and will continue to develop bilateral activities in bangladesh. particular attention is drawn to the netherlands, which has experience in this field. we have indeed developed activities in bangladesh, partly because of dutch knowledge and experience in the field of water. however, a number of other countries such as the united kingdom, germany, denmark, ireland, sweden, italy, belgium and france have also made bilateral contributions to bangladesh.
i need advice. president. - as regards romania and bulgaria, the council would point out to the honourable member that the accession negotiations with bulgaria on chapter 24, justice and home affairs, were provisionally concluded in october 2003 and that a monitoring process has been initiated. negotiations with romania on chapter 24 are still ongoing. to become a member, candidate countries must meet the so-called copenhagen criteria, which include stable institutions guaranteeing democracy, the rule of law, human rights and respect for and protection of minorities. in the light of the importance attached to respect for the rule of law, it is clear that effective, non-discriminatory law enforcement in bulgaria and romania with efficient complaint mechanisms for corruption cases is considered to be of the utmost importance. both countries should adopt and implement a timetable for legislation as well as other measures aimed at developing the institutional and operational capacity of law enforcement and the judiciary. anti-corruption legislation is part of that. the bulgarian and romanian authorities have taken a number of specific anti-corruption measures to date, the implementation of which is monitored by both the council and the commission and will continue to be monitored until the date of accession. the monitoring will be carried out in particular by the bodies set up under the europe agreement, namely the association council, the association committee and the subcommittees. the future european agency for the management of external borders, which is expected to be operational on 1 may 2005, will also establish and develop a common core curriculum for the training of border guards and provide training at european level for instructors for the national border guards of the member states. finally, in the light of the delays at the turkish-greek border, the council recalls the decision of 29 april 2004 establishing minimum signs for signalling at external border crossing points. the use of this signalling is compulsory at airports. at the crossing points of their land and sea borders, member states may lead the vehicles on separate routes. these separate routes, mr president, are intended, among other things, to facilitate the control procedures and to avoid unnecessary delays. this separation may also be deviated from when traffic flows at border crossing points are temporarily disrupted.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank you very much for your detailed reply and i would just like to ask a supplementary question: you spoke of monitoring, which, if i understand correctly, is carried out mainly by the association council. my question is based on very specific requests from citizens in my constituency in munich and is as follows: can citizens with specific complaints about delays and corruption go directly to the council or to the association council, or who takes up such specific complaints which can then be monitored?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you said that turkey was better placed to deal with this issue than some member states. first of all, i would like to know which member states are concerned. secondly, i'd like to ask what you mean by "they're not here". that religious communities have no legal status in turkey, or that the state there is organizing islam, which is the majority religion, for the sake of the state, or that religious veiling is not allowed? what do you think is better regulated in turkey?
the commission has already done so. ten years after we adopted the report on combating poverty among women in europe in this parliament, you have given us a picture of the situation and taken stock of it, and i must say that we have made some progress. a lot has happened in europe. europe was also the beacon of women's rights at the world conference on women in beijing. we have always been at the forefront, and it is therefore particularly painful that we have not been able to reduce the gap between the rich and the poor in europe decisively. i think poverty has a female face. it is clear to all, and the data show, that much remains to be done to ensure that poverty no longer has a female face. women still make up the majority of the at-risk groups, the long-term unemployed, single parents and the elderly living in poverty. it is particularly painful and tragic that children are particularly at risk of poverty in our prosperous society, and therefore, let me say this again, i found it particularly outrageous that mr buttiglione had discriminated against single mothers in this way. we cannot allow ourselves to be deceived. we can't let this go unanswered. the gender gap is particularly pronounced in education. if we look at the unesco figures, it's clear that lack of education is one of the main factors that drive women into poverty. the fact that we women still have insecure employment relationships, that is the same in europe and also that violence in these groups is particularly high. maternal mortality is increasing, and there is also a particular risk to women's bodies and lives if they live in poverty. women are also particularly affected by the hiv/aids epidemic. today, women represent the majority of new infections worldwide. these are all points which we must take into account and where we must intensify our efforts. the economic damage that is being caused is enormous, and that is why we should really press for the implementation of the lisbon strategy and the points that the commissioner has mentioned, that the social model of europe is ultimately based on the key factor of women's development and support, and that we really have the greatest resources in europe to empower women and thereby give a more humane face to society in europe. we in the women's committee are calling for these points to be incorporated into the future major projects in the social model europe, the progress programme, the structural funds and the new labour directives. the constitutional treaty gives us good instruments for this. let us make the contract come to life and put women at the forefront of our consideration by mainstreaming gender in all our projects.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. poverty has a face. we've already established today that it's a female face. poverty particularly affects single parents, especially women with children. in our society, we talk about having children. but it means poverty for those who are affected. this is indeed a scandal and i believe that the commission must do much more, also in the lisbon process: we need more jobs for women and, in particular, it must be a matter of the eu's heart to do more for childcare to improve the situation in education and childcare. we also know that it particularly affects older women. the elimination of discrimination against women in private pensions is a small step in the right direction. but there is still much more to be done. we have far too few indicators at european level to make progress in the fight against women's poverty, and the issue is still far too absent from policy. the commission still has a huge step to make to ensure that women's issues, equality for women, are much more integrated into eu policies. we have far too few statistics to really prove that. i hope that the commission will stick to its timetable for the gender institute and that there will be no further delays. we need this gender institute - the council has also stressed this - not only to summarise these statistics but also, possibly, to draw conclusions. let me now turn to a subject that has been left out of the discussion: women and the environment. we know that environmental degradation, particularly in the so-called third world, is also a risk factor for poverty. sustainable development must therefore remain the top priority on the agenda.
a writer. the commission has already done so. i'm glad that today is not the last time we see you here, but that we indirectly renewed your employment contract yesterday. i think that this is an oral question, not a speech. that's why i'm going to try to make it really short. you know, it's about the environmental impact on whales of underwater sonar systems, a military and civilian facility that has a very significant impact on fish life, particularly on the whale's hearing system. unfortunately, we have divine indications from reputable scientists that there's been a mass extinction of whales, not just recently, but for a long time. we would like to know from the commission whether it is aware that there are new studies of this kind which have been published in sufficient quantities. we want to know: are you aware that the united states has already dismantled such stationary sonar systems? are you aware that there are new technologies that can take these things? we are seeing a real innovation effect in the lisbon strategy. we do not want to abolish ships, but we want our friends in the defence sector to be able to go underwater in an orderly manner in the future and not in a confused and confused way as we are today. it's an opportunity for innovation! is the commission prepared to take action outside the european union?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to say that i am very sorry that we in the european parliament have not made use of an opportunity that we have. the european parliament is not only responsible for environmental protection, but also for security and defence matters. we've established a subcommittee on defense. i believe that a resolution which we adopt would have a much greater weight if these aspects were also fully taken into account. i want to say, from my point of view, that it is extremely important that we find a solution, that we have to protect the whales and the dolphins. i think there is broad agreement in the whole of the european parliament. on the other hand, there is the question of how best to do this. i do not know whether it is realistic to call for a moratorium, because for various reasons of safety, and for other reasons, it will be necessary to continue to use these devices to a certain extent. so i think it's more realistic to first find a geographical boundary and agree that the devices will not be used in the places where these deaths of whales and dolphins have been particularly massive. i therefore strongly support the amendment tabled by the epp group. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i think that the question of substitutes for sonar systems or other methods of protecting whales should be included in the programme.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the matter, and whether he has not made a statement on the matter. it is not a question of the amount, and what the rapporteur said applies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. cluster bombs are particularly insidious weapons. such a bomb, when used, can break down into up to 8,000 mini-bombs, which then spread over an area of up to 240,000 square meters - that's about 50 football fields - acting as land mines, threatening the civilian population, children and women as well as military personnel. this is a clear violation of article 51 of the first additional protocol to the geneva convention. that is why 18 months ago, on 10 february 2003, the european parliament called for a moratorium on the production and use of cluster munitions and, in the long term, for a total ban on them. it is therefore a political scandal that these weapons are still being produced in the european union, in germany, france, the united kingdom, italy, spain and belgium. that means that we decide here on sunday that this should not be done, that it is also against human rights, and we continue to produce. our governments are not doing anything on this point at national level. this is hypocrisy and it is therefore absolutely necessary that this parliament should once again speak out against the production of such weapons in the european union and against the trade in such weapons. if the european people's party in its resolution in paragraph 1 acknowledges the devastating effect of these weapons, but then in paragraph 3 expresses its understanding for their military use because otherwise the military would use even worse weapons, then this is a perversion of thought. i think that the christian members of the conservative group in particular cannot take such a position in the light of their ethical orientation. i would therefore ask you to withdraw this point from your resolution, because it is really against the subject.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my group did not sign this motion because it believes that this complex matter should be dealt with in the subcommittee in a report, which is what is provided for, and not in the urgency procedure, which is not appropriate. but we have decided to vote in this matter freely, and i am one of those who will support this resolution in the vote. i found it interesting that mr van den berg mentioned the name buttiglione. rocco buttiglione and i were among the christian democrats who were vehemently critical of the iraq war and also of the use of cluster munitions in the iraq war from the very beginning. i therefore regret that they do not want mr buttiglione to be part of the commission. because he would be a very good ally in this matter. the second point is that mr schmidt has appealed to our christian convictions. i must say this very clearly: he is saying this at the end of a week in which we have heard here several times that religious beliefs must not be allowed to interfere with politics. i do not see it that way, and i believe, as a christian, that everything we can do must be done, both against anti-personnel mines of all kinds and against these cluster munitions which are extremely dangerous to the civilian population and especially to children. but you shouldn't measure things with two different scales. one's christian convictions may lead one to adopt a wide variety of political positions, but they should be respected in any case. i personally think, and i think the majority of our group does too, that this moratorium should be implemented. this moratorium is sensible and necessary, and i can only say that we must make the use of cluster munitions in chechnya a particular subject of intense attention, because russia is a member of the council of europe, which is sitting here in strasbourg. so although chechnya, if you consider it part of russia, which i don't actually do, but which many do, is, so to speak, the territory of the council of europe and therefore subject to the human rights convention, cluster munitions are being used directly against the civilian population. but the same is true of course for iraq and it was true in the balkans as well. there is no unanimity here and i can say that i strongly support this resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in 1999, i first became more involved in cluster bombs. at that time nato was waging a war of aggression against yugoslavia, including the use of cluster bombs. in germany, all political groups except the pds, especially the social democrats and the greens, supported this war, and the consequences are still felt today. it is said that 30,000 to 50,000 cluster bombs are still contaminating entire areas of kosovo. we must be clear: it is mainly european companies that make profits from cluster bombs, for example the german company rheinmetall. it is obvious that large-scale cluster bombing is considered part of warfare. in the iraq war, 13,000 of these were used by the us and the uk. that is why a total ban on cluster bombs is the only right thing to do. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the arms industry.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are discussing for the first time in the newly elected european parliament the human rights situation in iran. we do so out of deep concern, as the council confirmed to itself in october, about the deterioration of the human rights situation in iran. the increasing reports of death sentences are clearly just the tip of the iceberg. we have little way of really checking what's going on. four months after the parliamentary elections in iran, we have to find that the small freedoms, the progress, the freedom of movement for women, for journalists, for students and students, gained in recent years, are being deliberately reduced. government proposals to improve the rule of law, such as gender equality, are systematically rejected by parliament. in this context, i would like to stress that announcements alone - and we have also received a lot of mail from the iranian ambassador in brussels - that improvements are to be expected are not enough. it is true that any progress, however small, in improving the human rights situation of those affected and those threatened is to be welcomed. but i also tell you quite frankly, it is not enough for me that a bill to suspend stoning is merely announced. we must fight to ban stoning and not just suspend it. i think it is not enough to say today that a bill to suspend the death penalty for minors has been submitted to the iranian parliament, the majlis. that means that the death penalty remains legitimate and legal in general, and that cannot be the position of the european parliament. that is why we must say that progress has been made, but that it does not yet correspond to what we understand by democracy and the rule of law. the european parliament has for the first time in its history set up an interparliamentary delegation with the islamic republic of iran during this parliamentary term. we have done this and we have supported despite the deterioration of the human rights situation, or precisely because of the deterioration of the human rights situation. we as a parliament want to try to use the few instruments available to help and to establish contact with parliament. our party, the greens, has taken over the presidency of this delegation and i look forward to working with our parliament and the majlis, despite all the difficulties. we must try to move the dialogue forward so that those who are fighting as democrats in iran can also hear the support of a clear voice from europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was the rapporteur on iran in the last election. i have tried to do this with a lot of goodwill and also a little credit to the iranian authorities. we also had a reform-oriented parliament in the last parliamentary term, with which we were able to establish quite good contacts at the beginning. but over the years there has been a development which has systematically reduced the little freedoms just mentioned, not only to the citizens, but also to the thumbscrews, particularly from the judiciary and the conservative circles of the clergy, on parliamentarians themselves. this has led to an increase in reports this year of executions, including those of minors, such as the 16-year-old who was hanged in august. these are situations and conditions which we cannot accept in any way. it is therefore right that at the moment there is no debate on a partnership and cooperation agreement. if our delegation for iran tries to get in touch not only with parliament but also with civil society, then we can make a contribution. it is important that we show those in iran - and there are many - who want change, that we are not just watching them, but also trying to make contact, to give them courage in this way, that they are trying to overcome the conditions from within. i accept that we cannot intervene from outside, but that we should strengthen the forces that are in the country itself so that they can create their own democracy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the laws of history and geography cannot be easily overridden. so iran, or persia, has historically been one of the most important states in the region of the world where this country is located. this will continue to be the case. this country is of enormous importance to europe in particular. but precisely because that is the case, we must insist on a strong respect for human rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore have to say quite clearly to mr la russa that if we were to postpone human rights decisions here every time because some embassy writes us a letter, we would not be making any progress in our work on human rights. of course we are in dialogue with iran, but if the iranian diplomacy is following what we are doing so closely, then i can give it a hand in this debate and let it inform the judiciary, the political and administrative authorities of its country that we have already discussed human rights violations many times in this parliament. then regimes changed, and those who committed these human rights violations and repression bitterly regretted that they had sided with the wrong side. we have spent years debating the iron curtain and the regimes behind it and denouncing human rights violations. today many of those who suppressed human rights back then would be glad they had not done so or could have prevented it. that is why it is necessary that we keep bringing to light what is happening, because that is the only protection we can offer to these persecuted people: that we bring things to the surface, that we call them by their name, that we drag them into the public light. of course, we must be as careful as possible. it's always hard when you're giving too many names. however, the fact that human rights are being massively violated and press freedom suppressed in iran, that the death penalty is still in the penal code and that stoning is still maybe not used but at least legally and not forbidden, as has been rightly said, are facts that cannot be ignored. i therefore recommend that this resolution be adopted.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fight against all forms of terrorism and against all terrorists is an important objective of the world community and also of the european union. i say deliberately against terrorists and all kinds of terrorism because i do not like the wording 'terrorism' as if it were a uniform phenomenon, because it suggests a wrong world view. but one thing must be clear: this fight can only be fought and won on the basis of law. and as clearly as the european people's party and the european parliament have stood with the united states in overthrowing the taliban regime and in taking action against terrorists, so clearly do we say no to what is happening in guantanamo. because, my dear colleague meyer, what is happening there is not medieval. the middle ages had a legal system, although not our own, but what prevails there is complete lawlessness. we demand that the prisoners in guantánamo have access to international or national courts, at least to independent courts, that they be able to be visited freely and that they enjoy all the rights deriving from international humanitarian law. this is not a matter of making terrorist activities look less serious, but it is a prerequisite for combating terrorism effectively. the united states is one of the oldest democracies in the world. they have brought freedom and democracy to many european countries. we could never have overcome the iron curtain without massive support and alliance with the united states, and many of the colleagues sitting here today would not be sitting here if it had not been for a democratic global policy of the united states. i therefore call on the united states of america to join us in fighting against injustice and dictatorship, but on the basis of international law and human rights.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there were some developments which we should take note of. i therefore propose, also in consultation with the other groups, to replace recital n.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. do you think the expense of this session justifies the return? will we get more information in this meeting than we will get from the media? (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too would like to express my pleasure that we still have the opportunity to see mr patten here in the house. i feel the same way as frank sinatra, i hear his voice over and over again, and so does mr patten. the question of arms exports is now open. i think it is fair to say that the code of conduct has made substantial progress in relation to arms exports. however, it must also be said that these advances are not enough. we very much welcome the fact that the presidency is negotiating some clarifications in this code and i hope that it will come to a good result. i also think it is very important that not only the sale but also the intermediation of the sale be subject to these rules. the real problem with arms exports is not the legal basis but the fact that the legal bases are applied differently in the various countries of the european union. we must concentrate our efforts on this problem - for example, by making the code legally binding. if this is not possible at community level, then there is nothing to prevent the member states from doing so, as some have already done. we must continue along this path, because our aim must be that we no longer treat the intra-community movement of arms as an export. but this is only possible if we have strict rules in this respect in all the countries of the european community and if they are applied in the same way. the question of the embargo against china. my group believes that we must seek this strategic partnership with china and that it is the way forward. but we know that there are still some problems, such as the treatment of human rights, problems with regard to taiwan and tibet, and that is why my group believes that the conditions are not yet in place to lift this embargo against china.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council representative has made it very clear that there are disputes between two groups in the council. but i think what should be important for us is to discuss the fundamental relationship with china properly at the summit. and on that, the presidency should at least try to come together and say, yes, we recognize that there have been improvements in the application of human rights in the people's republic of china in recent years, but they are far from sufficient. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to finance its own activities. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take a decision on the matter. china must move forward under the new leadership. i would like to join those who have spoken before me in saying that the arms embargo cannot be lifted as long as prominent government officials in beijing continue to threaten taiwan with armed force, as they did yesterday. it is not acceptable that politics is made by force of arms across the taiwan strait. chris patten has always shown us the right way. we have always said that we want a political dialogue between the people's republic of china and taiwan - a political dialogue which both sides must initiate. i hope that the political leadership in china will indeed choose the first approach, which is to go back beyond association and to start dialogue. it would be a completely wrong sign, in a situation where the people's republic of china is threatening taiwan with armed force, to lift the arms embargo. the council should also make clear its position at the summit.
council. mr president, the european security and defence policy is on the brink of a historic step. the eu's first military crisis management operation, operation althea, will start on 2 december. in the development of the esdp, we have made great progress from concepts and capabilities to concrete actions. like the first eu police mission, the first military operation will take place in bosnia and herzegovina. the preparations for the deployment of operation althea after sfor leaves bosnia and herzegovina are well advanced. an operational concept has been approved, force generation has taken place, and 11 third countries have been invited to contribute to the operation. a committee of contributors has had its first meeting and the operations plan has been approved by the council. operation althea will be an eu-led operation, with the use of nato assets and capabilities. therefore, the deputy saceur was appointed operation commander in early july. the operation's hq has been established in mons. in early october the force headquarters in sarajevo reached initial operational capability with a view to reaching full operational capability by early december, when authority is transferred from sfor. people might consider the transfer of the operation from sfor to the eu a big and risky step. they might have doubts about the capabilities of the eu mission. however they are wrong, if only because 80% of the sfor forces have transferred to althea, while the departing 20%, which are us forces, will be replaced by additional european forces. all the eu member states currently contributing to sfor will continue their contributions in althea. however, althea is not just an eu operation. third countries like morocco, bulgaria, romania, norway and turkey will participate as well. i am very pleased about their participation, because it shows that it is not just the eu that cares about bosnia and herzegovina. as members of the committee of contributors, these countries will have the same rights and obligations as the eu member states taking part in the operation in terms of its day-to-day management. no effort has been spared in ensuring a smooth transition from nato to the eu and that includes the delineation of tasks between althea and the remaining nato headquarters in sarajevo, arrangements on the availability and use of reserve forces and on the sharing of intelligence. the eurfor commanding officer and the commander of the remaining nato headquarters will be based at the same camp, ensuring operational coordination. nato itself also remains present in bosnia and herzegovina. we therefore have a nato strategic reserve for support in emergencies. this can be used for both nato and operation althea. this is a good example of the pragmatic and efficient use of limited resources. it also emphasises the good cooperation between the eu and nato. with the transition from nato to the eu, the last phase of military presence will start. the accent will no longer be on the prevention of inter-ethnic fighting but on assisting civil and military reforms. after that, a military presence can be withdrawn. with althea, we are contributing to the security and stability of bosnia and herzegovina, which is important to the reforms in that country. at the same time, operation althea is – dare i say – the final element in a comprehensive european union policy towards bosnia and herzegovina. it is also part of our broader strategy for the balkans. the combined activities in the political, economic development and security fields mutually reinforce each other. the situation in the country has a direct impact on the region and on the eu. we therefore have a clear interest in its stability and prosperous development. eu involvement is not only in its interests but also in our own and, given our comprehensive and coherent approach, it is only logical that the eu has taken over the nato operation. the ultimate objective is to put bosnia on track towards the eu and this will be achieved through the strength and stabilisation association process. the eu military mission, together with other eu activities such as the eu police mission, the eu monitoring mission and the cards development programme, will complement that process a comprehensive approach reflects our belief that the future of bosnia lies firmly in europe. it exemplifies our long-term commitment. it is now up to the bosnian people to make the vision come true. they will eventually have to decide whether to join the european political and economic union. such a choice requires fundamental reforms of state, economic and judicial structures. equally, they will have to confirm the decision to join the european community of values. such a decision requires an environment of tolerance, dialogue, respect for religious freedoms and a tough stance in words and deeds against the impunity of war criminals. the right political will and popular support by the bosnians, combined with our comprehensive role, could and should lead bosnia away from conflict into a stable and peaceful future, a future in which our special representative lord ashdown will play an ever more important role. let me conclude by saying that bosnia and herzegovina is on the right track. stability and security are increasing and, with its integration into euro-atlantic structures, the country is moving more and more from the area of dayton to the area of brussels. however, much remains to be done, because we are still concerned about the lack of cooperation with icty, particularly in the case of the republika srpska. icty cooperation is an important criterion for closer relations with the eu and nato. here bosnia and herzegovina will have to deliver. i hope the reforms of the defence and police apparatus, one of the key tasks of althea, will also bear fruit in that field. in that way operation althea will bring even more benefit to the people of bosnia and herzegovina in their quest for a durable and just peace.
commission. i am extremely glad to have this opportunity to say a few words about bosnia and herzegovina, just two weeks before the handover to eufor on 2 december. the launching of the althea mission is an important event: important because it will be the first significant military operation undertaken under the european security and defence policy. the transfer from nato has required long and detailed discussions because it was crucial to get things right from the very start. my colleagues mr solana and mr de hoop scheffer deserve a great deal of credit for securing a successful outcome. i know some will be concerned that a brand new military mission in bosnia sends a signal that the country continues to suffer from significant instability. that would, in my judgement, be an entirely wrong conclusion to draw. last spring the north atlantic council ministerial meeting noted an 'improved security environment in bosnia and herzegovina'. as a result they decided to reduce the number of troops committed to sfor from 12 000 to 7 000. i have been visiting bosnia for several years and i can personally attest to the transformation which has come over the country during that period. it would be the height of folly to take for granted the undoubted improvements which have occurred. all that is happening is that europe is taking on more direct responsibility for its own continent – not before time, some might say. however, there will be a review of the operation every six months. this will take account of its duration, as well as its size and configuration. there is no question of keeping troops in bosnia unnecessarily; as soon as conditions permit, the number of troops can be reduced and eventually the mission will come to an end. it is important at this time to recognise that bosnia’s european future will assume growing importance as the military presence continues to reduce in size. bosnia, like all the countries of the western balkans, has a clear european perspective as a potential candidate country. last november the commission published a feasibility study setting out 16 points on which the country needed to make significant progress before a recommendation could be made to the european council to start negotiations on a stabilisation and association agreement. although there has been progress since then, i am disappointed to end my mandate as commissioner without being able to give bosnia the green light. i very much hope that my successor, commissioner rehn, will be able to do so early in his new mandate. once he did so, the council would have to accept his assessment and a negotiating mandate would then have to be agreed. only then could negotiations start. there is no reason why they could not do so some time during 2005. if bosnia is to make progress on this timescale, a number of things are required. first, the authorities have to make further progress on the legislation associated with the 16 points. much has been done here, but there are continuing blockages in areas like vat and public broadcasting. second, bosnia has to recognise that passing laws has little utility if they are not implemented properly. there is still a great deal of work to be done here. third, the commission indicated in the feasibility study that it would expect proper cooperation with the high representative in his reform agenda, as provided for in the dayton paris peace accords. one crucial area here is the question of police reform. i very much hope that, by the end of the year, mr wilfried martens will be able to report agreement on the way forward. finally, there is the question of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. bosnia herzegovina is a member of the united nations and a signatory to dayton. as i have made clear on a number of occasions, there can be no dilution of the absolute requirement for full cooperation with the tribunal. this is fundamental to bosnia’s prospects for further movement through the stabilisation and association process. it is a crucial test of bosnia’s commitment to its international obligations and to the rule of law. it is also a fundamental part of the process of allowing the victims of the atrocities to let go of the past. allowing those accused of terrible human rights abuses to remain free makes it impossible for the communities to be properly reconciled. next week the chief prosecutor, mrs carla del ponte, will be reporting to the united nations security council on the cooperation of the countries of the western balkans with the tribunal. up until now, she has been quite clear that republika srpska has not been cooperating at all. it is indeed a disgraceful matter that not one indictee has been transferred by the republika srpska to the hague, although there are reports today that some war crime suspects have been arrested by republika srpska for trial locally. this is welcome news, but republika srpska will be judged by the international community on its cooperation with the tribunal on cases which fall under its jurisdiction. it is on that issue that mrs del ponte will be reporting to the security council. i have no reason to expect that her report will be positive on republika srpska. if that is indeed the case, lord ashdown will have to consider his response. certainly, it is intolerable that the prospects for the whole country to make progress towards joining the european union and nato are being compromised in this way. i urge the political leadership of republika srpska to take action now to fulfil their obligations. if they do not, they will be responsible for any consequences which flow from their failure. honourable members, the people of bosnia herzegovina suffered the most from the balkan wars in the 1990s. now they have emerged from that terrible period and have a clear chance of creating a real country with a genuine prospect of joining our european family. as i leave the commission, i wish them every success and i look forward to hearing of their progress in the months to come. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the transfer of responsibility for the security of bosnia and herzegovina from nato to the european union is a very important step towards a european defence identity. after operations in macedonia and the congo, this is now the third operation of its kind and also the largest. after all, there are at least 7,000 men and women involved in this operation, which means it's much larger than anything we've known in the past. what is our role as the european parliament? it is democratic control, although at the present stage of development i would rather speak of parliamentary control; but we have certain questions to ask: is the leadership structure correct and effective? will it stand up under crises? what about the equipment and weapons of the soldiers sent there? are they compatible with each other, do they meet the requirements? it will also be very important to see how cooperation with nato will work after the berlin plus negotiations and - a specialty of the european union and its security strategy - how cooperation between the civilian and military parts of this crisis management operation will work. the question of the financing of this operation is also of particular importance to us. we are constantly concerned that more and more shadow budgets are being created here, which cannot be controlled by either the 25 national parliaments or the european parliament. that is why we are also calling in the resolution we are going to adopt for the expenditure involved to be covered by the european budget, as far as is currently possible in the light of the constitutional developments.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not i would like to emphasize for my group that we are fortunately all in agreement on the importance for the european union, but also for bosnia, of our taking up this mandate. if it is true that this is the final stage, as you have indicated, mr nicolaï, i would like us to make further political progress by expressly asking the bosnian government to invite us to this mission. we have every legal basis, the basis of sfor, that is, the military intervention, which has now succeeded in making this progress towards stabilization possible after ten years. but should we not strive to achieve the same thing as in macedonia, that the government asks us to be present there in the transition window, when we are already talking about seeing the future prospects of bosnia in europe? i think that would be a success. why should we not conclude a so-called sofa, or status of forces agreement, with bosnia and herzegovina, as we have done with other countries which have asked us for help? secondly, we need this regular reporting, and i hope we will do so tomorrow. parliament is committed because we have all been committed for years. we're not just talking about military action. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr patten, i hope we will follow your request and care deeply about the future of bosnia.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it's good to keep reminding ourselves for a better future. it is not so long ago that in the middle of europe, in the western balkans, expulsion, murder and ethnic cleansing were in the headlines. but the eu was paralysed and could not take any really effective steps to prevent it. it is good, though painful, to remember srebrenica, mostar or banja luka and to realise that the military presence, led by nato, has achieved a certain but fragile stability in bosnia and herzegovina. it is good that the eu is taking on much more responsibility in this part of europe with the first major joint military mission with an extended mandate, with the aim of ensuring a stable, peaceful, multiethnic, and cooperative bosnia and herzegovina both regionally and internationally in the long term. it will be another test for europe, and also for the decisions which are very likely to be taken in this area next year, including in kosovo. i would also like to appeal to us to take account of such support, including for economic development, for costs, and also for the financial perspective.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. i would like to make a few comments on the substance of the matter. firstly, as chairman of the delegation for relations with albania, bosnia and herzegovina and serbia and montenegro (including kosovo), i am pleased that the eu's major financial and civilian commitment, led by mr patten, is now being accompanied by the still necessary military mission, now in european hands. secondly, this change from sfor to eufor is also welcomed in bosnia and herzegovina. it is clear that the fate of bosnia and herzegovina is closely linked to our own. the success of our political, economic and military mission is the litmus test of our foreign and security policy. thirdly, the tasks of eufor should be clearly defined. it should not unnecessarily interfere with the domestic prosecution of individuals. the country's police and justice systems have now developed the capacity to prosecute and detain ordinary criminals. the arrest of war criminals, as in the case of mladic and karadzic, should also be the responsibility of the remaining nato contingent, and above all of the native serbs in republika srpska. the two have not yet shown any visible enthusiasm for this, and republika srpska has even backed down. but eufor should have other tasks. fourthly, what will be the cooperation between the police mission and eufor? fifthly, a question which has been bothering me for the last few years: have the soldiers of eufor been made aware of the problems of trafficking in women and forced prostitution? is there an ethical context? and who will punish violations where and when? bosnia and herzegovina is not only a transit country, it is also a receiving country, not least because of the international presence. and sixthly, the name eufor is the right one. so why althea? a mythological female figure surrounded by blood, revenge, revenge, who ends up committing suicide herself. what was the name-maker thinking? you'd have to have some sense of the situation. in a region where we ourselves work against revenge, against retaliation, one might have expected something different. and another thing: eufor is the name under which the mission is already welcomed on large posters in sarajevo. let's leave it at that, let's put althea where she belongs!
council. mr president, i thank members for their remarks. as they were remarks rather than questions, i think i can be brief. most of the members who spoke agreed on the fact that the step we want to take in bosnia and herzegovina is an important step for the security and defence policy of the european union. we also agree on the fact that it is important for them and also for the european union because of the european perspective on bosnia and herzegovina. mr von wogau, mr wiersma and others were very clear on that. there were questions, especially from mr von wogau, about the command structure. i shall explain. we have the deputy saceur as commander of operations. he is supported by an eu operation which has its headquarters located within those of nato in mons, as i mentioned before. under the deputy saceur we have an eu command element in naples where the regional nato headquarters is located. this is in charge of the regional balkans operation. the field commander falls directly under this command element and hence there is a very thorough military structure. as with all european union operations, the political and security committee has political control and provides strategic direction. as regards armaments, as i said before it is the same people with the same equipment. i agree with mrs poli bortone and others that progress has been made but a lot remains to be done. in addition to the icty cooperation i have already mentioned and the internal reforms, i hope indeed bosnia and herzegovina will also become more active in regional cooperation. croatia has made considerable progress and could be an example in a number of fields – except perhaps with regard to icty, as we will hear from the chief prosecutor, carla del ponte, on 23 november. i end with a short but important remark. on behalf of the presidency i would very much like to thank commissioner patten for the important role he played in the balkans. as he said, we are all looking forward to the new commission and the new commissioner, on which this parliament will decide on thursday. nevertheless we will miss commissioner patten. (applause)
mr president of the council! i asked two questions, i didn't just talk. i asked you how the soldiers were prepared for this difficult task, particularly in relation to the issue of trafficking in women and forced prostitution. i asked you how and where they would be prosecuted or held accountable when they were, and secondly, whether you would consider removing that terrible word, althea, from circulation because it is causing problems down there. there were two important questions, and i would like an answer.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. i shall be speaking mainly on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a financial support instrument to promote the economic development of the turkish cypriot community. as rapporteur, i very much welcome this proposal. the aim of the eur 259 million provided for is to support the economic development of the turkish cypriot community up to and including 2006. the sum was originally to be released only after the annan plan was adopted, in order to reduce the large economic gap between the turkish cypriot community. the council has now recommended that this financial support instrument be put into effect in cyprus even without an agreement, after the annan plan was adopted by the large majority of turkish cypriots in february but failed to win the greek cypriots' vote of no. i can say, as rapporteur for the committee on foreign affairs, that we are unanimous in our support of this initiative. i should like to thank the committee on foreign affairs for the excellent cooperation it has enjoyed. community assistance provided for in this regulation can and should contribute to a gradual approximation with the community acquis in preparation for the takeover. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this financial support instrument is designed to promote such a solution. the approximately 260 million euros - which we strongly support - are to be used for environmental, transport, telecommunications, water and/or energy projects, for restructuring measures in rural areas, for example, for measures which particularly benefit small and mediumsized enterprises, and for bi-communal projects which build trust between ethnic groups. of course, measures can and should be taken in famagusta to enable it to be rehabitable. they know that there are initiatives in this area. my report, in connection with the measures to be taken, points out that the property rights of eu citizens must not be infringed. we have stressed this once again, even though we know that it has been a matter of course to observe this principle in the implementation of european projects. we agreed in committee that the administration of the overall measure, as subsequently proposed by the commission, would be assisted by the agency for reconstruction. i also want to say this to mr samuelsen: there is broad support, we are in complete agreement. the financial support is part of the package proposed by the commission in july; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already made a statement on this subject by commissioner patten and the council. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer. i think that the council will be able to make a decision on the trade proposal in the near future, and i think that parliament will make it clear to the council tomorrow that we expect a swift decision on the trade proposal, just as we expect a swift decision on the financial support element. i think it is very important that the union sends a clear signal to the turkish cypriot community - in particular to the large majority who voted for the annan plan and for a yes to the european union - that we want a swift solution to the cyprus problem, but we are taking the concerns of turkish cypriot civil society very seriously even today. it is in the interest of all cypriots, it is in the interest of a good development in cyprus, that the democratic, pro-european forces in the turkish cypriot community be strengthened and not resigned in any way. i hope that parliament will make a contribution to this with this report, and i hope and expect that the council will do the same very soon.
mr president, we are to vote on the report of my colleague mrs rothe regarding the financial support of northern cyprus. this is good news: northern cyprus needs this aid. over the last few decades events have separated the island politically and economically. the people of cyprus suffered immensely from the partition of the island. all those involved must do their best to overcome the separation. it was the explicit aim of the united nations and the eu that a united cyprus would join the european union on 1 may 2004. the governments of northern cyprus and turkey have followed the steps laid out by the united nations and the eu. the population of northern cyprus has overwhelmingly supported the unification of the island as well as eu accession. a united cyprus could already be a member of the eu today. unfortunately, that has not yet happened. it is our responsibility to encourage the two parts of the island to cooperate. the regulation on financial support that we are discussing today is the first step. the second step will be the regulation on special conditions for trade. the council should finalise that regulation without delay, firstly, to allow for an improvement in economic conditions of northern cyprus; and secondly, to facilitate the rapprochement of the two sides through trade. this rapprochement can also support change in both parts of the island. during the times of the german ostpolitik, we called this concept wandel durch annährung. more steps must follow soon. the ultimate aim must be the reunification of cyprus.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to express my gratitude to the two rapporteurs, mrs rothe and mr samuelsen, as well as to the european commissioner and the presidency of the council for what they have presented here today. i think it is very important to convince the southern cypriot government that the european union must keep its promises to the north of the island. the aim must therefore be to agree to both trade and aid together. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i would like to take this opportunity to appeal to the southern cypriot government, but also to my colleagues from cyprus here, to make a clear statement at last as to whether they really want to help the north of the island or whether they want to continue to throw sand in the gears at every opportunity. i am pleased that the greek prime minister, mr karamanlis, has recently made a clear statement on the kofi annan plan for the island. the end of this debate has taught me one thing: i feel that the people in the south of the island who were in favour of the kofi annan plan have no representatives here. that is why i decided in this debate that i too would like to be the representative of the people of cyprus who voted for the kofi annan plan in the greek part of the island. i am a turkish citizen and i want to be the voice of these people. i wish we could take this opportunity to do everything in our power to make this reunion happen.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. on the questions of the lisbon process, my colleague, mr désir, will make a few remarks on behalf of our group. i would like to point out, however, that the review of this process is the focus of the work of my group in this parliament, but i think it must also be the focus of the efforts of the union as a whole, because the kok report, which you are discussing in the council, speaks a clear language. we are simply not fit enough and we must concentrate all our forces - those in the new commission, those in the council and those in parliament too. we in the socialist group will attach great importance to this. but i would like to speak, like my predecessor, mr mayor oreja, about the area of freedom, security and justice. the council decided that the transition to majority voting and co-decision, codecision, immigration and asylum policy and wide-ranging justice and internal cooperation should take place by 1 april next year at the latest. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but it was not this resolution of 14 october, it was a long process, a five-year process, and i would therefore like to make a reference to one of those who is not here: our former colleague and commissioner, antonio vittorino, because the fact that we are where we are at the end of the tampere process is due not least to the persistence of antonio vittorino. i would like to make this clear on behalf of our group. (applause from the centre) what's the matter? the point is that the commission, the council and parliament must all share responsibility for ensuring that we pursue a balanced policy. i think you have drawn attention to the situation in your country in very, very well chosen words at the beginning of your speech. we must meet the demands on the security policy of the european union, the security demands of our citizens on the member states and on the union. there is no trust at all! we must not allow any room for enemies of fundamental civil rights, for enemies of democracy, for those who turn their blind hatred into murder and manslaughter in order to destroy the order we defend! a strong democracy has the right to be strong and to confront its enemies with vigor. our group will always be on your side. but that's only one side of the coin. the other side of the coin is that the state, the union, the forces of law and order, which are supposed to defend the fundamental democratic freedoms, must not, at the same time, restrict the very rights they defend in the context of defence. i know that this is easier said in parliament than done in practice. but we must nevertheless continue to strike a balance between the right of citizens to be protected from uncertainty and the guarantee of their fundamental rights. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the debate on the future of the european union, but i am saying that it should be involved in the debate on the future of the union. i cannot imagine - and i say this as a member of the german bundestag - that a country like libya has had much experience in the practice of fundamental rights. in this respect, the solutions offered so quickly and cheaply in the media market are sometimes not the best. i would like to point out once again that if we want to combat illegal immigration - and this has been a credo of my group for a long time - we must finally create legal immigration. and that opens the debate here in parliament on 1 april next year. that we, as legislators, can and will contribute to this, that if we want to create security, we must not only always talk about the illegality of people, but must create the framework for their legality. this is also an opportunity which we shall have from 1 april next year.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not i'll be very brief, mr schulz. please inform the german minister of the interior of your statement. i could use that. on 4 and 5 november this year, the european council set out its priorities for the further development of the common area of freedom, security and justice. these developments are likely to give the union more character than any previous joint initiative, for the realisation of this union of law will be the basis of a common european society. the question of how far the european union intends to protect our 450 million citizens, among others, from the dangers of terrorism, and how far it intends to make judicial cooperation practical in the future, but also the common approach to asylum, immigration and integration will determine the character of our society. we must not forget that the foundations we decide on over the next five years will affect not only the future of 450 million people, but also the future of their children and grandchildren. i would like to take this opportunity not only to remind you of this but also to remind you of the responsibility we all have assumed by choosing to make policy in this house. we shape societies and their futures. whether this was successful or not can unfortunately only be seen in retrospect. but then we'll have to answer questions for our children, just as our parents and grandparents had to answer questions for us. and i can say here, yes, i have achieved that freedom has not fallen victim to security. yes, i have achieved that this great society has remained an open, tolerant and free society that has never tolerated intolerance. and, yes, i have given those who are persecuted in foreign countries the opportunity to seek refuge in this europe, and to those who want to live and work here, i have also given that opportunity. and how, my children will ask me, how did you achieve this? i hope i can answer that we, the directly elected representatives of the people, have not tolerated the fact that the interior ministers of some countries have joined the so-called g5 and have taken the essential decisions without parliament's involvement. we have recognized the importance of the integration of foreigners living in europe, and we respect it and expect it to be respected. and we were superior to the free society arsonists. we have never fought terrorism without regard for the loss of civil liberties. measures such as biometric data in identity documents have been carefully weighed against the criteria of necessity and proportionality. we have eradicated modern slavery, human trafficking in all its forms. we have fought them at all levels and allowed people to immigrate legally to europe. and we have taken our responsibility to asylum seekers. and we didn't make it easy for ourselves by shifting our responsibility to states outside our borders and laws. we have not only created empty institutions, but have also given the european agency for human rights, for example, financial resources and a mandate. the hague programme is a beginning, but it is certainly not an end. we must think, debate and argue again and again before we make irreversible changes in our society. the protection of human and civil rights, freedom and security are the foundations of our europe, which we must defend also, and sometimes precisely, within its institutions. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not i too am surprised by the lack of alternative to the lisbon strategy, as proclaimed by prime minister balkenende, because this implies that the way in which it is implemented is also without alternative. my group does not criticise the lisbon strategy as it stands, not because it aims at more and better, social cohesion and sustainability, but because it is also exacerbating global problems. the brussels council and the conferences held under the dutch presidency now signal: the creation of meaningful jobs, the strengthening of social cohesion and the rational use of nature are being reversed in favour of the competitiveness of corporations and the eu-european global player. instead of responsibly adjusting political priorities for social, environmental and global sustainability and submitting corresponding proposals to the council in spring 2005, we are now hearing: first, europe's competitiveness must be strengthened, the dynamics of labour markets must be increased and social security systems must be adapted to the challenges of competitiveness and demographic change. and i say clearly: this is how we will solve the global problems, the social problems that we cannot solve. the wim kok report, which was presented at the meeting, also provides no alternative. it does not help to develop a modern employment and social policy. i therefore share the view of the european network against poverty and am willing to discuss its proposals, for example, for a social policy agenda for 2006 to 2010. in view of the summit and the proposals which the commission will present next january, i call on the commission, the european council and the member states to correct the political priorities within the lisbon strategy, as i have already said. (applause from the centre)
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. it is perhaps a sign that i am speaking on the lisbon strategy and that the commissioner responsible for development aid is also here. the objective of making europe the most competitive region is unquestionably right. we must look at who is responsible for what in europe. and with regard to the council, mr balkenende, i now find it intolerable that heads of government and economic ministers meet every month and every year, agree on lofty objectives, make europe responsible for the fact that europe must achieve the lisbon strategy, and then go home and not do the corresponding homework. no, they go even further and prevent what europe can do. the european patent is another step in a european initiative. the commission has already taken steps to liberalize the market for electricity, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken steps to liberalize the market for electricity. what europe is doing is being prevented in the council, and what the national states should be doing is not being done. and in the end, it is europe that has not achieved the lisbon strategy. i thank the kok report; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the aim is right, perhaps too ambitiously defined. we in europe can be happy about these member states now if the gap with america does not widen. we need to present a corresponding concept in europe, which compares the national states, so that it becomes transparent which government in europe is failing in this strategy and which is good, in order to make citizens aware in the political process in this transparency that we can only do it together. i hope that the presence of the commissioner responsible for development aid is not an indication of where europe will be heading in the future.
in writing. i have just agreed to the rueda report. we europeans are committed to contributing to world peace and security by limiting and disarming. strict arms export controls are a high priority. there is not the slightest reason to lift the arms embargo against the prc simply because member states have an interest in expanding lucrative trade relations. the council rightly unanimously imposed the embargo in 1989 in response to the massacre in tiananmen square in beijing. why should it be overturned now? has china ratified the un convention on civil and political rights? have there been constitutional amendments in favour of human rights? has torture or the death penalty been abolished? were there fair trials for political prisoners? can tibetans practice their religion or their culture? did the uighurs and mongols get more rights? despite the reforms in recent years, china is far from a legal framework. it is imperative that the eu maintain its restrictions on arms sales to the chinese. the eu-china dialogue must no longer treat human rights on the sidelines - they must be at the centre!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. althea is the test of the european union's ability to ensure stability in its foreign and security policy on its own continent. we are looking forward to this mission with great anticipation, because it can only succeed if it gives our south-east european policy a clear face and a clear name. there is a great deal of confusion in the region and also a great deal of distrust of the variety of international organizations which are opaque and seem to be controlled by no one. the european union has a duty to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina, and to help the people of bosnia-herzegovina. althea is a unique opportunity to really act as a european union - firstly in terms of security policy and hopefully also in terms of politics - and to provide this with the appropriate democratic control by the european parliament, so that the opacity of intergovernmental organisations, which is far from being a citizen, can finally be replaced by the clean and transparent control of a european parliament which also takes its responsibility for foreign and security policy seriously.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is important that we send a very clear signal to cuba that this dictatorship of castro must finally be ended. the first is that it is an oppressed people who are fighting one of the last communist dictatorships since the second world war, or in this case since the 1960s, and the second is that cuba is still a kind of hotbed of infection in latin america. we see that castro has suddenly regained a new reputation in a number of latin american countries, and we cannot simply take note of this with a wink of the eye. we are not in favour of a unilateral policy of sanctions, but we consider democracy and human rights to be fundamental, and if these fundamental human rights are not finally respected and implemented in cuba, not only can there be no reasonable relations between cuba and the european union, but it will also put a strain on latin america as a whole.
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all welcome the president-in-office of the council, the prime minister of the netherlands, mr jan peter balkenende. ladies and gentlemen, three weeks ago i suggested that we stop the clock. today it is time to get it back on track and to put my team to the vote of this house. the decision to postpone the vote was welcomed inside and outside this parliament as a way of creating the conditions for this process to be successful. a process of approval that shows european democracy in action. tomorrow, if this parliament so chooses, it will be able to give a strong support to the new commission and, in so doing, to bring about another victory for european democracy. it is in your hands to confirm a commission which, as i made clear in july when i had the honour of receiving your support as president-in-office, intends to establish a very close relationship with this parliament, a positive complicity, as i like to say, a commission which with your support and partnership can implement a european agenda capable of proving to our citizens the importance of europe.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, i would like to thank you. mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! we often say something critical to the council when we see that the place is empty again, and if we want to be objective, we must also say a word of appreciation when the place is occupied. (applause from the centre) the president of the european council is here, and that deserves our appreciation. mr president of the european council, convince your successors to follow your example in future when important debates take place here. mr president of the commission! on 29 june, the heads of state or government nominated you as president of the commission. the epp-ed group has strongly welcomed this nomination and we welcome it today, because we know that you have the ability and the will to lead a strong commission. on 22 july you were elected president of the commission in this very chamber with 413 votes, far more than the absolute majority. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on october 27th, you decided not to put your team to a vote because a majority was not secured. if there had been a vote, the epp-ed group would have supported the commission's college in a very united way. the support that was expected or put forward from two other groups was lacking. in view of this situation, your decision - and we advised you not to put your commission to the vote on 27 october - was the right one. on 1 november, rocco buttiglione, whose convictions have led to an emotional outburst unprecedented in the european parliament and in the european public, announced at a press conference in rome that he was no longer available to the commission. he added that he wanted to pave the way for broad support for the commission under your presidency, mr barroso. i would like to thank the epp-ed group for this noble gesture. (applause from the centre) with rocco buttiglione's decision, the way was clear for further changes. in the person of franco frattini, the italian government has proposed a new candidate. the hearings have shown that franco frattini is an excellent personality, competent, convincing, knowledgeable and intelligent. andris piebalgs, the new candidate from latvia, presented himself convincingly and impressively. i would like to add, with all due calm and composure, that many in our group would have welcomed the fact that the hungarian government had followed the example of the latvian government in changing its candidate. (applause from the centre) what conclusions should we draw from the events of the past few weeks? i come to three conclusions: first of all, we must remember our european values. the basis of our free european society is respect for the dignity of every individual, tolerance, pluralism and the rule of law. all persons have the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. the strength of our european cultural identity lies in our acceptance and tolerance of cultural differences. if we stop doing this, europe will fail, i am deeply convinced of that. and that means that no one in the european union, no one in europe, no one in the world should be discriminated against, not even because of his or her religious beliefs. my second conclusion is. we want a strong commission and a strong european parliament. the commission and the european parliament are allies in defending the europe of the community. at the same time, the european parliament exercises parliamentary control over the european commission. and that is why we expect you, mr president barroso, and the whole commission, to be at the disposal of the european parliament, and all the members of the commission, whenever the european parliament asks for it. we propose that in december we hold a debate here in parliament on the political priorities of the european parliament for the legislative period up to 2009 and that you can then draw conclusions from our opinion for your programme, which we expect to be adopted in january. thirdly, the council and governments must give the president of the commission more latitude in appointing individual commissioners and allocating departments. we expect governments to cooperate more closely with the commission president-designate in this area in the future. and now the time has come to decide. the epp-ed group will vote in favour of the commission by a very large majority. the epp-ed group wishes you, mr barroso, and the commission as a whole, every success in the responsible task of working for the welfare of the citizens of the european union and for the unity of our continent. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not ladies and gentlemen, mr barroso, the speech you made today shows that there has been a considerable change between the speech you made last time, when you presented your proposal, and today's speech. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we think you should have pulled it earlier. but you have drawn the consequences, and what you have announced today as a proposal and will present tomorrow is better than what you proposed 14 days ago. this commission has improved in quality. that's a step forward. and it could have been even better than it is - and i am addressing myself to you, mr barkenende - if a case which we have discussed and will continue to discuss very controversially had been resolved by the intervention of your government. (applause from the centre) i regret, with all the respect i have for your presidency of the council and for you personally, that the italian government has been more flexible than the dutch government. i think we shall have to discuss the consequences of this. mr barroso has indicated some consequences, and i shall come back to them shortly. but one thing is clear: if this parliament has been strengthened in relation to the commission and also in relation to the council - and it has been strengthened - then my group has played a decisive part in this. i'm proud of that. but victory, as we have just heard, always has many fathers. the fact that those who sat in the bushes during the battle are the loudest to proclaim victory is humanly understandable, but politically unjustifiable. (applause from the centre) we have two points to clarify with mr barroso. firstly, you have announced that you will continue the agreements which mr prodi made with parliament following the change of commission in 1999. you'll have to be more specific. we have referred to this in our resolutions. to clarify means: we assume that the commitment is that commissioners will leave the commission at your request and that this will be clarified in advance within the commission. and we assume that you will accept that in individual cases, when the allegations that there are inconsistencies in the performance of the duties of individual commissioners with previous activities are confirmed, parliament's request to use this instrument will be accepted. that is what we expect of you, and i think you have indicated that today and will make it clearer tomorrow. that is part of our resolution and we insist on it. mr barroso, you tried last week in the plenary - badly, i think - to get a majority against the socialist group, but you failed. this commission has been changed as a result of proposals and strong pressure from the socialist group. if you want a large majority in this house, then only with the socialist group. (applause from the centre) i would therefore recommend that you seek cooperation with our group, since a large proportion of your commissioners come from our political family. a commission supported by a large majority in this house is a strong commission. it is better than being dependent on the votes of the extreme right. i want to have that on my record that day. (applause from the centre) if you get the approval, it will be an approval of the composition of this commission and a signal to start work. it is not a statement on the legislative programme you will be presenting in january. and we shall not measure your legislative programme by the number of people in the commission, but by its content. the 200 social democrats sitting here have been elected because the citizens of europe expect us not to undermine the social gains we have made as the european left in the member states of the european union by a commission in brussels, but to ensure that they are secured by this commission. this is particularly true of the lisbon process, which must be a process of growth but also a process of social cohesion and social stability. that's how we'll measure you. (applause from the centre) we are therefore prepared to cooperate constructively with you and your commission. mr barroso, i have had the opportunity to discuss with you on several occasions in recent weeks, and only yesterday i saw your efforts, which i personally respect. sometimes i wonder if this effort is a situational effort, born out of the pressure of the situation. if that's all it was, it would be bad. but if it is a continuous effort, if you, as president of the commission, know that this commission is made up of different political tendencies and that these political tendencies are reflected in the council, in the composition of the governments there, in your commission and in parliament, and that in all three institutions the social democratic element is a crucial element, and if you take this into account in your personal work, in the work of the commission and in your legislative proposals, then you can also count on the support of the social democrats in this house. if you don't take that to heart, then remember october 2004 because that's exactly what's going to happen again.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: democracy is not comfortable and neither are we, the european parliament. you noticed that. but i am convinced that democracy must be fought every day, and if you want democracy in europe, you cannot wait for permission to fight for democracy. so get ready for us liberals and democrats to be a critical partner in the years ahead. we are counting on you to make human and civil rights your main concern in this new commission. we also call for an economic policy which is clearly based on market principles and which respects the principle of producing first, then distributing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would therefore ask you to look carefully at the sources of criticism of your policies or of individual commissioners. perhaps it is not so much about the individual, perhaps the criticism comes from the direction that questions the principle of the market economy and is afraid of liberalism. we also count on you, mr barroso, to join us in working to bring more democracy to europe. we should be allies, your commission, we as parliament, against the national guardians of the acquis, such as are found above all in the council. this requires that you respect parliament not only in extreme situations but also in other situations, and that you see us for what we are, namely the popular representation of the european citizens. and karl popper once said, it's not important who rules, it's important that you can vote out a bad government, and we stick to that.
mr kilroy, you should be glad that i did not interrupt you during your speech, because no one here needs to listen to insults. nor by mr kilroy-silk of the united kingdom.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president-in-office of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. what's the story today? the question today is quite simply: will we get a commission in europe that can successfully meet the challenges of the next few years? we are not going to have a commission that can meet the expectations of the people. we are not going to have a commission that can lead europe strongly and that will also be a respected player and partner in the world. i can say this on behalf of the epp-ed group, which is the largest group in the european parliament: we are getting a commission that can do these things, that we trust, and we are representing citizens all over europe, a commission that has also earned the trust of the people of europe. we want to express that confidence tomorrow. we also hope - and i say this with the same clarity - that the cooperation which has developed over the last three weeks between this new commission and the european parliament is not a one-off but that this close cooperation will continue to be sought. i think we have a duty as the european parliament and you have a duty as the commission in office to act in the interests of the citizens. we're ready to go. and i would like to ask you to do this with all parties, not just with mr schulz and his team - who are not as homogeneous as they always try to be here - but with all the groups in this house and especially with those who have really taken the lead in europe.
my two presidents! i'm rather disappointed. because as i have been following the discussion now, i have to say that mr watson meant that you will have a cock, but it is only a very small egg that has come out. why would you do that? because mr. pöttering doesn't really want mr. kovács. mr schulz doesn't want the commissioner of competition. other groups are criticizing other commissioners. i wonder what is better about this commission. to me, you may have started out as a lion in a rage, but you ended up as the council's bed-maker. that's why i'm rejecting your commission.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. every crisis also has the potential of an opportunity, and i believe that the turbulence of the last few weeks has strengthened both parliament and your commission. the idea of the european constitution, that the commission should be given greater legitimacy by this parliament, was already in force before the constitution was ratified. i can only welcome this as chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs. we should also secure this achievement for the future in the interinstitutional agreement. you have appointed a vice-president in your commission to deal specifically with communications policy, which is an innovation we can only welcome, it has not yet happened, and you are filling a vacuum which has contributed a great deal to uncertainty and also to anti-europe in recent years. the policy from brussels was simply not conveyed to the population and to individual citizens. i can only congratulate you on that, it was a very correct decision, which we support. i know, as we all know, that national governments very often make the policy that the bad comes from brussels, but the good comes from the national capitals. this has not failed to have an effect on people: they are uncertain, and this must be corrected. the european constitution gives you a unique opportunity over the next two years to communicate the values and foundations of the european idea to the outside world. a chance like this is rare. i hope you're active and not passive. it is our duty as a european institution to take part in this. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to the mercy of the governments of the member states, but that it is not left to the mercy of the governments of the member states, and that it is not left to the mercy of the governments of the member states, but that it is not left to the mercy of the governments of the member states, and that it is not left to the governments of the member states, but that it is not left to the governments of the member states, but that it is not left to the governments of the member states, and that it is not left to the governments of the member states, but that it is not left to the governments of the member states, and that it is not left to the governments of the member states, but that it is not left to the governments of the member states, but that it is not left to the governments of the member states, and that it is not left to the governments of the member states, but that it is not left to the governments of the member states, and that it is not left to the governments of the member states.
i have to say, madam president, this is not the way to treat a commissioner who has made a name for himself by opening the iron curtain. i find that absolutely outrageous! i just have to say it. madam president, there are still dark spots on the commission which we are to approve tomorrow. mr barroso, you are under pressure from governments, but you should not underestimate the vigilance of the european parliament. i will be the first with my group to eliminate the failures in your area. we'll take your word for it! you have promised this parliament that you will remove commissioners who are not good for one reason or another. you must keep that promise, or you will fail like mr santer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this has made our commitment to europe and its citizens more visible than ever before. the people of the 25 countries will continue to look upon us with favour, and hopefully also on the barroso commission.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to say that we now have a commission of 25 members, each of whom is certainly of the opinion that one or the other is not in his own way. but this is the most normal thing in the world, it's a team game; but now the game is over, now it's about getting action. however, mrs gebhardt, if a rocco buttiglione is criticized for his values, a conservative should be allowed to criticize socialists without being called indecent. i think that the balance must be maintained here. i would like to call for this and also appeal to the greens and others: the game is over, parliament has scored points and now it is a matter of equipping a commission with a strong majority so that it can carry out the work for us over the next five years with this legitimacy, which we have to control. there's a lot of work to be done. the consolidation of the enlarged european union and the lisbon process were discussed, as were europe's role in the world and transatlantic relations. how do we overcome terrorism, and what is our role in that? how can we ensure the stability of our currency in discussions in which some are putting the stability pact behind the mirror? these are very important tasks and i would therefore like to invite ourselves to express our great confidence in this commission and at the same time to say to the commission: a great deal of confidence means strong control during the work and good cooperation at the same time. the community institutions, parliament and the commission, will be the ones to implement the constitution so that this becomes a community europe and not an intergovernmental europe. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval.
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, before i give the floor to mr nicolaï on behalf of the council, i should like to inform you that i have received seven motions for resolutions at the end of the debate. the vote on this will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. i now call mr nicolaï on behalf of the council.
i would like to begin by referring to question no 1 by mr papadimoulis. the question is the execution of the arrest warrant against kenan akin, and i give the floor to mr nicolaï to answer the question.
mr president, if i understand you correctly, that was an opinion and not a motion for a resolution. i take note of your opinion.
the council, mr president, is aware of the specific case mentioned by the honourable member, that of mr abdelkadar bouchama, whose family has not heard from him since his arrest on 18 may 1994. this case, along with those of many thousands of so-called disappeared persons who have been kidnapped during the conflict that has gripped the country since 1992, is one of the approximately 7000 disappearance files held by the algerian league for the defense of human rights. in september 2003, president bouteflika established an ad hoc committee on disappearances. since it does not have investigative powers, it has not been able to provide full clarity on the disappearances so far. madam president, mr farouk ksentini said that the state was 'responsible but not guilty'. he has proposed, following the example of south africa, a general amnesty for all members of the security forces involved. recently, financial compensation has been offered to the families of the disappeared on condition that they drop their charges. the council, madam president, has regularly raised the disappearance and expects to do so again at the forthcoming meetings in the framework of the political dialogue with algeria. we're following the matter closely. in this context, the forthcoming ratification of the association agreement constitutes an important development in the union's relations with algeria. the entry into force of the agreement should enable the european union to exert more effective pressure on algeria in the field of respect for human rights in general and in particular in the field of disappearances.
yes, i have two specific requests. firstly, is the council prepared to intervene again with the algerian authorities in the specific case i have mentioned? and secondly, i would like to ask whether, in the context of the dialogue which can now take place on the basis of the agreement, a more efficient instrument could not be proposed than the committee which you yourself described as very inefficient.
council. thank you for your remark. i would like to emphasise the importance of the status of the pssa, a particularly sensitive sea area. in the imo framework protection measures for a pssa can include ship routing measures such as an area to be avoided - an area within defined limits in which either navigation is particularly hazardous or it is exceptionally important to avoid casualties and is one which should be avoided by all ships, or certain classes of ships.
- i'm not going to. i wanted to deal with one more question, and then we'll finish the question period.
so you know, actually, i'm giving the floor as chairman. but how you judge the answer to the question is your judgment, so to speak. i would now like to refer to question no 9 by mr de rossa as a final point, but first i would like to say that question no 7 by mr willy meyer has lapsed because he is not present. question no 8 by mrs mastenbroek has been withdrawn and question no 9 will now be put to the vote. question no 9 by mr de rossa concerns state-owned enterprises involved in oil production in burma/myanmar. mr president-in-office, you have the floor and i think you wanted to go over the question before.
council. my reaction is the same. i cannot tell you what is under discussion in the council and between member states.
mr de rossa, you do not have the floor. perhaps you can discuss this with the president of the council again on a bilateral basis. the question time is already over, we should have closed at 7 p.m. and you had the opportunity to ask the question now. questions 10 to 15 will be answered in writing. i shall conclude this question time.
the next meeting will be held tomorrow, thursday 18 november, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
commission. mr president, i believe that we share a common ambition: a strong and independent commission that can drive europe forward with this parliament and with all those who have that same vision. i take note of the resolution on which you have just voted. i look forward to examining it closely. however, my first impression is that it can provide a good basis for us to reach agreement on how we will work together over the next five years. these arrangements should be formalised through an early updating of the framework agreement adopted in 1999, to guide the cooperation between our two institutions. i would only ask that our agreed approach takes account of our respective roles and obligations and the european union treaty. before dealing with detailed points set out in point 5 of your resolution, let me reconfirm that i stand by my commitments regarding the creation of a commissioners' group on fundamental rights and new proposals in this important area. turning to the specific issues in point 5, let me give a first response. with regard to points 5 (a), (b) and (c), as i indicated yesterday, i have sought and received a commitment from my team that the commissioners will resign if i ask them to do so. i will examine very seriously any criticism expressed by this parliament regarding the performance of commissioners. i stand ready to explain to parliament the conclusions that i draw. in this way we are affirming the principle of individual responsibility of every commissioner, without calling into question the principle of collegiality for which, under the treaty, the president of the commission is guarantor. with regard to the replacement of commissioners, we must make a distinction between the current situation, which foresees no role for either the commission president or parliament, and the future situation under the constitution. the constitution will bring the procedure for replacing commissioners closer to the procedure for the confirmation of the commission at the start of its mandate. in this transitional phase, i can therefore agree that new commission members should not appear officially before this parliament until they have met with the relevant parliamentary committee. as regards their appearance before council, that is not entirely in my hands, since a nominated new commissioner will have to carry out duties linked to his or her portfolio. in the event of a reshuffle of my team, i accept a similar obligation that commissioners whose portfolios change should not appear officially before this parliament until they have met with the relevant parliamentary committee. with regard to points 2 and 5 (d), your resolution suggests that we have not yet taken the necessary steps to avoid potential conflicts of interest. yesterday i explained the detailed arrangements for dealing with potential conflict of interest problems that might arise in a portfolio. let us now implement them. we will have the opportunity to assess their effectiveness at a later stage. i will make any further changes that prove necessary in the light of experience. with regard to point 5 (e), as i indicated in july, i share parliament's view of the need to strengthen multiannual programming and strategic planning, together with the council. i will therefore present to you in january draft proposals for the five-year strategic objectives of the union, which should be jointly adopted by all institutions. i will listen to your debate on the subject in december and take account of your main concerns. this anticipates this important new area of cooperation, also provided for in the constitution. now points 5 (f) and 5 (g). our relationship must be built on trust and regular contacts. my team will therefore give priority to appearing before this parliament. both i and vice-president wallström intend to maintain regular and active contact with the conference of presidents. the announcement of commission decisions and proposals to parliament reflects the current arrangements under the framework agreement, which i am, of course, willing to respect. nevertheless, i believe that this has not always been been implemented satisfactorily, either for the parliament or for the commission, particularly as regards communicating effectively to the wider public what the union does. i hope that we can discuss improvements to this arrangement, focused on identifying the most important proposals deserving the attention of parliament and our joint communication effort. presentation of these proposals should be timed as far as possible to coincide with plenary sessions. if we can do this, i would argue for greater flexibility on other more routine initiatives. point 5 (h). the commission already explains how it will follow up the positions of parliament on legislative proposals. experience shows that this mechanism is useful and i will be happy to extend it to positions taken by parliament in cases other than legislation. point 5 (i). we need to distinguish between issues related to the flow of information between the commission and the european parliament and issues linked more generally to access to european documents covered by existing legislation (regulation 1049/01) i am happy to look with you at ways of improving the flow of information between parliament and the commission. as i stated last july, it is a fundamental requirement for this parliament to provide democratic oversight. in relation to regulation 1049/01, we should consider practical experience with the rules on access to documents. nevertheless, we should not forget that those rules have been enforced for only a little over two years. we should not therefore plan an immediate review, but rather agree a timetable for a review during the lifetime of this parliament. since the rules on access to documents were agreed by codecision, we should not forget that this is an area where the agreement of the council will also be required. point 5 (j). the main guidelines of the code of conduct governing the behaviour and operation of the new commission have already been endorsed by my team. i am willing to inform the european parliament of any changes to the provisions of the code on conflicts of interests or ethical behaviour and will take due account of any views it expresses on such changes. point 5 (k). i believe the common approach to setting agreed priorities and planning our work and the more regular contacts between our institutions will help to improve the flow of information in these two areas. however, we should look at possible improvements in the light of current experience. mr president, honourable members, generally speaking i consider this resolution a good basis. vice-president wallström and i will work with you constructively, addressing the points i have just made and any others that our two institutions might think appropriate, with the aim of reinforcing the roles of the european parliament and the commission in their work for europe.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen! the european parliament has just adopted a resolution by a very, very large majority which, i am firmly convinced, will further strengthen the process of parliamentarisation of the european union. this convincing result shows that the european parliament is committed to working constructively with the commission, but also to exercising its parliamentary democratic control over the commission. we say in our resolution that we want good working relations between the commission and parliament. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. and, mr president of the commission, as regards the need for parliament to exercise control over the commission, we would like to say to you that we are always on the side of the european commission as an important institution of the european union. as the guardian of the treaties and of the rule of law, you will always have us, the epp-ed group, at your side. (applause from the centre) we have already concluded a framework agreement with the prodi commission, and your reply has shown that we want to implement what we have written in this resolution in a framework agreement with you. and we should continue our work - mrs wallström, as the future vice-president it will be your task to continue the work of your distinguished predecessor, loyola de palacio, with whom we have negotiated the framework agreement in recent years - and then we should start working together soon. the commission's decision to grant or withdraw the confidence of its members is very important. and if parliament expresses its distrust of a member of the commission, then that is an opportunity for you, mr president of the commission, to give serious thought to this matter - and so it is already in the agreement with the prodi commission - whether you will dismiss that member of the commission. if you do not comply with parliament's demand, you will have to explain yourself to the european parliament, and that is parliamentary progress compared with the situation as it is now. at no time during the five years of its existence may a member of the commission be a member who has not undergone the parliamentary procedure. if there is a change in the commission for whatever reason, we insist - as this resolution says, and as we will then implement in the framework agreement - that every new member of the commission must be heard by the european parliament. (applause from the centre) mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, it is a pleasure to see the full commission staff here. we expect you to speak to the european parliament and to give it an answer whenever parliament, the plenary, the committees or any other body of parliament requests it, throughout your term of office. if parliament demands it, attendance in parliament takes precedence over any other obligations you may have. and that is important, because you are responsible to parliament. (applause from the centre) we will insist on this and we will be very careful to see that this is respected by the members of the commission - there are very different attitudes towards parliament among the members of the commission as well. a very important area will be your strategic programme. we expect you to present it in january. the conference of presidents had actually decided, in the logic of an earlier decision, that if the procedure had not been delayed, we would have held a debate at this november meeting on our parliament's ideas with regard to your strategic programme. we have now decided that parliament will set out its principles in a resolution in december. this can and must be an opportunity for you not only to take note of parliament's positions but also to bring them into line with the european commission's strategic programme. let me say one more thing: our group regrets that the request for subsidiarity was not accepted by the uen group. we say that where europe has responsibilities, europe must be strong and act sensibly. but europe does not have to take on all the responsibilities; we also have the communities, the counties, the regions, the nation states. each of these four levels has its own task, and that is why we respect the principle of subsidiarity. in conclusion, our group will be very united in giving you the confidence you need. we will be on your side in a positive and critical way, but we will also be determined to exercise our parliamentary control. in this sense, mr president, good luck to you and to your commission staff for the next five years! (applause from the right)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not ladies and gentlemen, i would like to mention a great european, a member of this house who was one of the most important members of the european parliament, and i would like to quote a phrase by willy brandt. willy brandt said: 'the european parliament does not get rights, it has to fight for them'. yes, in the last three weeks this parliament has fought for its rights, and we can all be proud of this successful fight, because we have stopped a trend towards the domination of governments in the european union. we have made it clear that parliament, as the freely elected representative of the peoples, has equal rights and is on an equal footing with the representatives of the states and governments. what we have seen here in the last three weeks is a sign of democratic progress in europe. parliament is elected to fight against governments, and also against executives, if you disagree with them. that's what they're for. and to fight this, they elect members of parliament. if we fight this battle as successfully as we have done, we will win - we all know this - the confidence of the citizens in our institution. people understand that. they understood this fight. from the north cape to sicily, from the azores to east frisia to the russian border. the support for this parliament has never been higher than it is now, and we should take advantage of that. it's a strengthening of this institution. (applause from the centre) both the parliament and the commission have emerged stronger from this process. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'll take the word from the blind date. that was a nice wording you used. some blind dates have their charms. some of the blind dates you've had haven't been very appealing. if you do not want any more blind dates, then tell the governments very clearly that the procedure whereby i, barroso, have to take anyone who is proposed to me and then have to pay the political price for your proposals, that procedure is over with this commission barroso. (applause from the centre) if you do, you and the commission will also be winners. then you too will come out of it stronger. we have been focusing on key messages in this debate for the last few weeks. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction. the basic civil values include the freedom of expression of each and every individual, yes. but it also includes the right of parliament to decide who gets into an executive and who doesn't. and strengthening democracy is part of that. the freely elected representatives of the people have emerged stronger from this process, and that is good. it is good because it is the basic condition that we meet on an equal footing. president barroso, you are quite right to criticise parliament. i remember that a few days ago, in a debate in this house, you were quite critical, if only in one direction of parliament. it's your right. but it is our duty to check the executive. i therefore repeat once again: we will act in the same way as we have shown in the last three weeks here, on any - on any! - question of incompatibility and also whenever we think that your commission is going in the wrong direction or that the policy guidelines are going in the wrong direction. the interaction between the executive and the parliament at european level is that you have the monopoly of initiative and we have the duty to ensure that legislation is socially balanced and fair, and that is what we will do in the five years ahead. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the democratic progress we have made is therefore the beginning of a struggle which we shall be waging for five years. the social achievements of europe, which have been achieved in the member states - i said that yesterday and i repeat it today - cannot be sacrificed at european level. they must be safeguarded at european level. we believe that this is the crucial task of your commission. we in the socialist group will support your proposal as you put it before us today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is now up to you to win over these colleagues over the next few years. the socialist group agrees with your proposal. i wish you success in your work for social cohesion and social justice in europe. (applause from the left)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a personal statement and i do so on behalf of our group. the statement made by mr farage is unworthy of this european parliament. (applause from the centre and the right) jacques barrot has never, at any time, committed a crime. never, not at any time! i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. (applause from the centre and the right) mr president, i ask you to consider whether the offensive remarks made by mr farage here could have criminal consequences. i reject these remarks in all my resolve and express our unanimous confidence in jacques barrot. (applause from the right)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. what mr pöttering has just said applies equally to my group. we have been very critical of some of the candidates. but the fierce criticism of a political conflict must never lead to prejudice against the personal integrity of people. i therefore say quite clearly that whatever criticisms we may have made of the matter, there must be no doubt about the human and personal integrity of the candidates. i would like to say to mr barrot that you come from a different political family than we do. but especially your personal integrity is beyond doubt. i fully support what the honourable member has said and what applies to this english member applies equally to mr le pen. (applause from the centre and the right)
in writing. i have just given my consent to the new commission. i trust mr barroso to be a good conductor of an orchestra that is yet to be formed. he will be able to master musical scores of varying difficulty, including those offered to him by parliament today. i would have liked hungary to have had a lot of tact. laszlo kovacs should not have run for re-election, not just because of his communist ideology. whether his inadequate skills on energy issues will be sufficient for the tax department remains to be seen. neelie kroes from the netherlands is expected to become a disagreement specialist in the cabinet. the current presidency of the council should have withdrawn it, as it lacks the necessary independence for competition matters. i have little understanding for the withdrawal of rocco buttiglione, who with his high level of expertise would have been an asset to the ensemble. many in the audience would have wanted him - possibly in a different position - as an interpreter, even if they do not share buttiglione's views in part. europe must remain a stage for freedom of expression, freedom of religion and cultural pluralism. our former colleague repeatedly committed himself to european values and guaranteed to respect the law in force. i hope that in future we will all receive qualified proposals from the member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the commission.
in writing. 'i have agreed to the barroso commission despite its reservations. the positive image of a christian europe has been damaged by the incitement of the left in the ep.'
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the crisis in côte d'ivoire has a whole host of very different causes that need to be thoroughly analysed. of course, as in most west african states, there are tensions between the christian and animist south and the mostly muslim north. of course, there are problems with borders drawn very arbitrarily by the colonial powers, which usually separate ethnic groups, indeed entire large peoples, living on both sides of the border. of course, there is economic and social instability as a result of colonial mistakes, but one thing must be clear: none of these factors can be used as a justification for violence and human rights violations. we must also make it our duty to make the leaders of these countries and the organisation of african unity and the african union take a massive part in stabilizing the situation. there is a paragraph 6 in our joint resolution - which my group also supports - which can be seen as a criticism of france. i want to make it clear that any criticism of france would be unjustified. of course, no one is without faults, of course france is not without faults, and france has also partly brought about its colonial problems in west africa. but on the other hand, it must be said quite clearly: without the french there would be no hope of stopping the killing, the robbing and the looting in the ivory coast. we can make speeches and pass resolutions in the european parliament, but those who must put their heads up for a peaceful solution are the french soldiers and, in part, the french civilians in côte d'ivoire. that is why we must express our solidarity with them. paragraph 6 of the resolution, as i understand it, is not a criticism of france but a criticism of the other european and other states which have left this matter to france alone and have actually very comfortably hidden themselves and evaded responsibility. i would therefore like to reply to mr kohlíček: of course there are imperialist and colonialist responsibilities. but it must also be said that without the french presence in africa in the 1970s and 1980s, the soviet union would have occupied central positions in africa which have not fallen into the hands of expansionist communist ideology. and a date which we celebrated yesterday, the 15th anniversary of the freedom movement in czechoslovakia, might not have been celebrated in this way if there had not been counter-forces in the 1970s and 1980s. we have a responsibility today: to provide a new beginning for the peoples of africa in partnership and not in colonial patronage. of course, this will require an end to the violence. but then it is a question of finding a new ethnic balance, of promoting statehood there, of building civil society, of solving the problems of nationality and, above all, of decentralization. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is the future! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we europeans have a responsibility; we thank france for taking up this responsibility, but we must actively participate in the process of building a genuine peace order that is more than just a ceasefire.
it's very short and really exceptional. before commissioner figel speaks, i would like to congratulate him very warmly on his election today and say that i am delighted that he is the first commissioner to be debating with us today in this urgent debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. almost two years ago, here in strasbourg, we tried everything to prevent the execution of the two tibetans tenzin delek rinpoche and lobsang dhondup. despite our unanimous resolution, despite worldwide appeals and campaigns before national parliaments, despite many vigilantes of volunteers, despite massive protests at the diplomatic level, lobsang dhondup was executed in january 2003. his teacher, the highly respected lama tenzin delek rinpoche, faces the same fate in a few days, as the two-year reprieve will expire on december 2, two weeks from now. he's still being treated like a terrorist by the chinese leadership. he continues to be denied due process and independent legal representation. his alleged confession to involvement in the bombings was coerced, and his health condition, after he was apparently tortured several times, is unknown. his solitary confinement is in direct contradiction to the united nations convention on the treatment of prisoners. i share the view of the three speakers who have spoken before me: silence would be the worst of all the things we dare to celebrate. the real reason rinpoche is in prison is because of his great influence on the people, his support for the dalai lama. some hardliners in china went too far. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia and the situation in the former yugoslavia. the rinpoche case, mr figel, must be on the agenda of the eu-china summit on 8 december. i hope it's not too late. and the advice i can only remember is: we have repeatedly called together in the european parliament for a special representative for tibet. he is able to make his productive contributions to peaceful solutions. the people's republic of china will host the 2008 olympic games and is a permanent member of the un security council. how can it gain trust or acceptance if it does not respect human rights and minorities? we have just seen it in parliament since monday. they were working together to design a mandala. it was meditation. the monks who designed this took the opportunity to inform about what is part of their culture, what we all have to experience if this is destroyed, if you are not allowed to speak your own language in your own country, if it is forbidden to represent culture and religion - that would be the worst of all. i was glad that many of the members - including my speakers - and the assistants and journalists and many visitors were there to witness this mandala, which has just been completed. we expressly welcome the progress made by the chinese side, whether it be the dialogue with the representatives of the dalai lama or the release of nun ngawang sangdrol after decades of martyrdom in prison. we were very pleased to welcome her to the european parliament and we had done our part in this. will this path of reason not be continued? does it fit into such a climate to allow judicial decisions without any legal precision? ladies and gentlemen, let us all use our power and influence to ensure that tenzin delek rinpoche's death sentence is not carried out, that a fair trial is held in the presence of independent observers. the chinese leadership must also not refuse to listen to reason. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the dramatic situation in eritrea is the subject of our debate today - also in eritrea, i am afraid to say, because in many african countries we are faced with such acute developments. president thabo mbeki, in his speech yesterday here in the house, also listed a whole list of african crisis centres, which could not be exhaustive, although i believe that the omission of zimbabwe was unfortunately no accident. (applause from the centre) so today, after the debate on the ivory coast, eritrea - a country that has not been independent for very long and was also involved in a bloody border war with its great neighbour ethiopia. it's torn on the inside, too. the 1997 constitution, with its guarantees of civil rights, including freedom of religion, is not worth the paper it is written on. eleven former mps, known as asmara elf, have been detained without charge since september 2001. the african commission on human and peoples' rights also called for their release in march 2004. it is good to hear such demands from africa itself. journalists were arrested. it has been said that the country ranks fifth in the world in terms of freedom of the press. we call for the human rights of all prisoners to be respected, especially those of the young people who were arrested on 4 november. you also need to have contact with lawyers and relatives. we call on the council and the commission in particular to open the consultation procedure provided for in article 96 of the cotonou agreement. the aim must be to prevent such a regime from also benefiting from privileges such as those deriving from the cotonou agreement. at the same time, we must increase humanitarian aid and support for all non-state actors who are committed to nothing more and nothing less than the noble text of the 1997 constitution. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we propose to adopt paragraph 20 from the excellent report by mr romeva i rueda, which yesterday dealt with the lifting of the arms embargo on china. with your permission, i quote from this part: calls on the council and the member states to maintain the union's arms embargo on the people's republic of china and not to relax existing national restrictions on such arms sales; takes the view that this embargo should be maintained until the european union has adopted a legally binding code of conduct on arms exports and the people's republic of china has taken concrete steps to improve the human rights situation in the country, including by ratifying the international covenant on civil and political rights and fully respecting the rights of minorities; so it is precisely this original wording of paragraph 20 which met with great agreement that we propose to place here.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would like to begin by greeting you, mrs ferrero-waldner. we've done a lot to make the preparation time you had for your new position a little longer. it's got nothing to do with you. we welcome you as our joint commissioner for external relations of the european union and we offer you constructive cooperation which will hopefully strengthen peace in the world. the commission has already made a number of proposals. there are good times in this house. i just had one of those. the applause for my speaker shows that we are in agreement. i can say for our socialist group that when it comes to peace and democracy, to peaceful coexistence and to the respect for the fundamental civil rights which the state must guarantee if it is to deserve the title of 'democracy', we are all on the same side - and this is a good thing in europe. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today, to the people of europe today, to the people of europe in the future. if the ukrainians are now moving towards this model of democracy, i agree with you, mr saryusz-wolski, they will need the help of the most successful multinational model of democracy in the world. this is the european union, and we should stand together for it here today! (applause from the centre) it is easy to discuss this in the european parliament. the situation in kiev is much more difficult, the situation in the country is much more difficult. and two crucial elements have to define the role of all those who are acting now, those who are acting from within ukraine, those who are in charge in the country, and those who we have sent there, who are operating on our behalf. i am not going to go there, a delegation from our ranks will certainly have a much more intense impression of this than we do, but when i see the pictures it becomes clear that such a mass movement on the ground, in which the power of the state meets the will of the people on the other hand, is very difficult to control. and there are only a few short steps between a peaceful solution and a bloodbath. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. what we need is a peaceful solution, a solution that leads to the sovereignty of the people, but which preserves the unity of the country. it is not only in the interests of ukrainians, by the way, but also in our own interests. a divided, fragmented and destabilised ukraine would be fatal for europe too. we are therefore proud and also see it as an opportunity that it is the european union which is now conducting the mediation talks on the ground. this also shows that the european union is not only defining an important task for itself, but that it is desired as a partner in dialogue and that it is accepted as a mediator. i am proud that it is our friends, javier solana and aleksander kwaśniewski, who are playing key roles in mediating between the parties in ukraine. it is a good sign that the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy is there, and that the polish president is there. the polish president in particular represents a country - you rightly pointed out this - which has successfully completed this process, and javier solana is a former minister of a country which has freed itself from a dictatorship. he was also in a party that freed itself from this dictatorship. so there are two men on the ground now who, from their own life experience, can make an important contribution to ensuring that what we call the european model of democracy is adopted and implemented by ukraine. that is why we social democrats say to the ukrainians: welcome to the democratic family of nations! (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable members who have spoken. i would like to start by saying a few words about the violence debate, after spending the last weekend in kiev. my impression from many meetings and conversations in kiev is that this violence is not threatened by those who have pitched their tents in the streets of kiev, or by those who have been demonstrating in kiev for ten days and more. if there is a threat of violence, it is from the old power, and we must be aware of this as a problem, even if we are travelling there now. crisis management - what does it mean in this situation? crisis management can only mean that we try to meet the demands of these orange revolutionaries, who are much more than a party for yushchenko. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the elections are held in a democratic manner. we europeans have not really done much to glorify ourselves in the last election observation. we must be much more involved than we were in the last election! (applause from the centre) mr saryusz-wolski said something important. he said ukraine was far away. you have been self-critical, and i think we europeans should be self-critical here today. i am glad that colleagues from poland and other eastern european countries, which thank god are now members of the european union, have pursued a more far-sighted policy on ukraine than the rest of the european union. i am very grateful to you, mr geremek, and to others, and i am proud of your achievements. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, there is so much discussion about interests in connection with ukraine. i keep hearing about putin's interests, russian interests, american interests, european interests and geostrategic interests. but what i miss so much since i came back from kiev is that we finally agree that in ukraine, this mass movement is about ukrainian interests at the moment. if we do not put this at the heart of the debate and of diplomacy, then the risk of failure is very great. i am glad that we are leaving this evening and that this joint delegation of the european parliament has finally come into being. i was hoping to do that last weekend, but better late than never. i have learned from this past weekend - and i think it will prove true for us - that in all our debates about european values and where in the world they should be implemented, it is good for us to spend a few days in kiev, because if you can really feel that europe has a common soul anywhere in europe at the moment, it is there in kiev. i hope that we can, in your spirit, in the spirit of all our colleagues, bring this delegation there, and i hope that we can actually achieve the core demand that i raised at the beginning for the people of orange, whose pressure we also needed. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank the presidency of the council and in particular the commissioner for the clear words which have been used here, in which it has been stated that electoral fraud cannot lead to the recognition of elections and that elections cannot therefore be declared valid. since 1990 we have had a development in europe where the peoples of europe have a right to self-determination over their own destiny. and this right must not be called into question again by external interference or internal manipulation. that's what this is about. it is not a question of one candidate or another, but of this european parliament taking the side of democracy and giving the people the opportunity to express what they want to express. i think we should do a thorough job of that. at the same time, it must be said to ukraine that a president who legitimizes himself through electoral fraud has no international credibility. this also means that we have to think about the neighborhood program. commissioner, i thank you for suspending the action programme and we will have to discuss what to do with regard to ukraine in the light of developments in that country. at the same time, i would encourage you to be braver than your predecessors. i think the message to ukraine that we take it seriously and consider it an important partner has not been enough in the last two or three years. i think that some here in brussels and in the national capitals have not taken a clear position, otherwise we would not be in this situation. we should do better now, while we still have a chance! the european economic area and many other things can be brought here with imagination to open up new perspectives. if the delegation goes to ukraine, it must be clear that our goals are the unity of the country, not the use of force and the continuation of dialogue between the various parties, and that we must ensure that the second round of elections is repeated, after the change of the electoral law, but only the second round of elections. everything else is just another manipulation to deny the leader of the opposition the chance of winning the elections. but this also means that both sides must be prepared to cooperate with russia and with us on an equal footing, and that this cannot be done on the basis of feelings of revenge but must be characterised by respect for both sides in order to contribute to the reconciliation of the ukrainian people. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i haven't wrapped an orange scarf around my neck, but i feel no less connected to ukraine than you do. i spent six years of my life there, in kiev, without interruption. the correct result of these elections must be on the table, we agree. but whatever the outcome of the election, it shows above all that ukraine is deeply divided - territorially, politically and ethnically. the international interference which began long before this election has also contributed to this division to a considerable extent, to the great detriment of the ukrainian people. mr putin has been heavily campaigning for his favourite candidate and has been quick to congratulate him on his success. in his country, the russian president is abolishing the elections of the heads of the russian regions, some of which are no smaller than the whole of ukraine. president bush is concerned and criticizing the electoral process. the serious doubts about the correctness of his own first choice and the numerous complaints about his second seem to have been forgotten. countless advisers have provided logistical support to the opposition in ukraine. for months this election has been highly stylized as a choice of direction, either with russia or with europe. as if russia itself were not to a considerable extent part of this europe! but ukraine cannot throw itself into the arms of a single ally. if it is to solve its grave economic and social problems, it must be able to maintain good relations with all its neighbours, new and old. it must be allowed to develop this under any president, without empty promises, pointing fingers and undisguised pressure. the ukrainians must and will decide democratically and independently.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr battilocchio has just reminded us of the rose revolution in georgia a year ago. if you come to tbilisi today, you will see the european flag hanging in the cabinet room, on the streets and in the president's office, next to the georgian flag, as if you were a member of the european union. and if you stand in freedom square in kiev, you see the georgian flags and you see the european flag, because all these countries want to come to europe. but not all our neighbours can become members of the european union. we must already be thinking of the european union's capacity to absorb when we take our decision in december. we must therefore make our european neighbourhood policy more clearer and more consequential as soon as possible. the commissioner has also made this quite clear as one of her priorities at the hearing before the committee. but if that is the case, if the expectation is to come to europe, and we are prepared to do so, then our response in the last few weeks has not been sufficient. the fact that the high commissioner was only willing to go to kiev at the insistence of this parliament was a mistake. he should have been there before the elections, he should have shown that europe is interested in fair elections. and if it is true that - as our colleagues tell us - the european commission was also asked whether it could not send a larger delegation, whether it would not be prepared to be more involved in these elections, then that too was a failure, which we now feel very painfully. we are fully aware that the palestinian elections of 9 january are already being prepared with huge staffs and a lot of money and personnel, but we should have shown the same commitment to our immediate neighbour, a country of 50 million people, who wants to join europe. i think that our european neighbourhood policy, our report, which we will be discussing in a few weeks' time, should be given new life: participation in the internal market, participation in european programmes, many of the things we can offer, we must now send as a signal. it is not a question of thinking in spheres of influence, this is not directed against russia, because a democratic ukraine will also need good relations with russia, and we as europeans should support this.
council. mr president, let me start with mr wynn’s remark about what will happen if there is no agreement on the financial perspectives. that was not the nicest way to begin a debate in the european parliament, because i believe we will reach agreement with parliament on the financial perspective on time. as mr borrell and mr wynn pointed out, the next financial perspectives represent one of the weightiest and most significant dossiers currently facing the union. the council is therefore grateful to have been given the chance of setting out briefly how it is envisaged that this dossier should be dealt with. as you will be aware, the timetable for finalising work was laid out in the multiannual strategic programme for 2004-2006, adopted by the european council in december 2003. thus, with the majority of the commission’s financial and legislative proposals already on the table, work is currently under way within the council, aimed at possibly reaching decisions on principles and guidelines this month. the intention is to achieve political agreement before the june 2005 european council so that both the framework itself and the detailed legislation can finally be adopted by the end of 2005. preparatory work on new community programmes would thereafter be carried out throughout 2006 so that they could be implemented from the beginning of the new financial perspective period. as already mentioned, after producing two overall communications – one in february and a follow-up in july – the commission has also presented a package of detailed proposals setting out the legal framework for key policy areas. these include cohesion policy, conservation and management of natural resources, lisbon-related issues and external relations and will be completed by a small number of additional proposals concerning in particular freedom, security and justice, and research and development. the council wishes to reassure mr borrell that the commission’s proposal constitutes the basis for work in the council and is in accordance with normal institutional practice. however, i think you will agree that, again in accordance with normal institutional practice, it is open to any member state to agree or disagree to a greater or lesser extent with the financial implications of a commission proposal and thus endeavour to move the dossier in a direction more agreeable to it. this is part of the normal process of negotiations. as far as the union’s own resources are concerned, the commission has submitted as part of its legislative package a report on the operation of the own-resources system as well as two proposals. these proposals make provision inter alia for the possibility of new tax-based own resources to be operational as from 2014, as well as for a generalised correction mechanism. preliminary work on these proposals has started and it is generally agreed that the concept of the globality of the financial perspective negotiations implies not only that individual policy areas must be viewed together in the context of overall expenditure, but also that expenditure must be seen in the context of the overall negotiations, including the question of own resources in all its aspects. the council also recalls in this connection that own resources formed an integral part of the 1999 berlin agreement on which the current financial perspective is based. on cooperation between the council and the european parliament, it should be recalled that, as specified in the joint declaration of july referred to by mr wynn and mr borrell, the council is committed to an exchange of information with the european parliament throughout the process. the precise arrangements for putting this into practice will need to be established by common agreement between the parties. the council continues to act in accordance with the terms of the july declaration whereby the financial perspective should be negotiated in a spirit of loyal institutional cooperation, with the institutions willing to take all measures necessary for successful completion of the procedure leading to its adoption. the partners accordingly need to reflect on how best to give concrete expression to this spirit of cooperation, which will certainly need to deepen as negotiations within the council intensify and firmer council positions take shape. the council could, to this end, draw inspiration from constructive practices followed during the last financial perspective negotiations, which enabled a satisfactory dialogue to take place with the european parliament, culminating in the adoption of the current interinstitutional agreement in may 1999. in this context, to conclude i wish to refer to the idea, also mentioned by mr wynn, of holding a monthly trialogue. based on my experience as president-in-office, i should like to stress that the council, and therefore the president-in-office, will not be able to take a position in such a formal setting. the negotiations in the council are ongoing and difficult, as you know. in such a context it would be preferable to continue the current practice of informal contacts between the presidency and representatives of the european parliament. i am convinced that these contacts will be fruitful and enable our institutions to play our respective roles. furthermore, you can be sure that the council will look very carefully at the content of relevant resolutions and use them in its deliberations.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we want to see a timely agreement in the negotiations on the financial perspective and the political priorities of the european union. but we want an agreement which also meets the requirements of this new enlarged european union. i would therefore like to say, as rapporteur for the committee, that the quality of the final report is also more important than the timetable. the aim is to define the political priorities for the next few years on the basis of the discussions with the specialised committees of this parliament in the temporary committee, to present ceilings for the structure of the european budget, in order to define the negotiating position of the european parliament for the discussions with the council. we want to ensure that traditional policies naturally come into play on the one hand and that the european union improves its position both internally and externally and finally becomes a union of citizens and states as defined in the constitutional treaty. this is why the discussion on political priorities on the basis of european added value is about discussing with each other and talking about how the lisbon objectives of growth, employment and sustainability can be integrated more closely into the european budget than before. mr president-in-office of the council, i think it is very important to make it very clear once again, in the light of the experience gained so far, that we want an agreement in good time so that we do not run into difficulties - not so much with the budget, but rather with the legislative procedures. i would also like to say that the worst-case scenario could be reached within the next year. and then we are all called upon to put in place safety nets. the budgetary protection nets are provided for in the treaties and the regulations, namely article 26 of the interinstitutional agreement or, where appropriate, article 272 of the treaty. but at the same time we must ensure that, where appropriate, it is made clear that the legal bases for structural funds, for multiannual programmes, will be extended where necessary, if there is no other way. and perhaps the announcement and discussion of such safety nets and alternatives will help to make all those involved aware of their responsibilities and, especially in the context of next year's referendums, to make it clear that we as european institutions are willing and able to announce a successful agreement on the financial perspective at the right time. i would like to add my voice to that of mr wynn, the first vice-chairman of the committee on the rules of procedure. the question of the declaration of assurance and also the question of how we deal with the financial regulation which has recently come into force are important questions which must also be clarified in parallel in this context. it is not just a question of ceilings, commitments and payment appropriations, but of the overall management of the budget by the commission, but also by the member states. we must therefore also discuss the court of auditors' statement of assurance and the question of the financial regulation and whether there should be a financial plan for seven years or four years. we shall have to discuss these questions in depth. it is very important that both are guaranteed: a flexible, permanent trilogue whenever necessary, and at the same time the necessary informal confidential talks, so that we do not end up in chaotic negotiations at the end of the negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! i'm glad to be able to welcome you back in such a short time and to have you with me. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when you're going into a big challenge like this, which has already been covered in a whole bunch of martial terms and has also been opened up with a lot of secondary battlegrounds, by putting numbers in the room, it's good to keep a cool head and work things out systematically. i can assure you that there are many people in this parliament who will not be distracted but will approach this matter with a cool head. we must ensure that parliament is adequately involved and we will of course also make this clear in the appropriate procedure and where appropriate. i am very grateful to you as president of the council and to my colleagues for having moved away from this pure numeral game and for having put the content at the centre of the block building approach. you said we must look at the different areas and see what we can actually achieve, what we want for europe in the future, and you are working accordingly. we will work on this in parallel and then make appropriate suggestions, which we hope you will take into account during the procedure, not just at the end. we must ask ourselves many questions, because future european policy will ask us these questions, and the citizens want answers. we will have to face new challenges in the future and we will also have to talk about whether the existing policies have been properly designed in the way we have designed them so far. we will not abandon our principles. the cohesion of this europe is a principle which we cannot abandon. in these areas, for example, there is a debate whether we should provide more comprehensive services as we have done in the past or whether we should promote lighthouses, centres of growth. we will have to talk to you about this, and such a discussion of details and content also requires courage. it requires courage on the part of the council, because the council must say that if certain things are sold to the citizen as european tasks, for example creating more security after 11 september or cooperation in the field of foreign policy, then we need the money for that. we as parliamentarians will also have to have the courage to bring back to the national level certain things which cannot be done optimally at european level. we're gonna have to have this discussion. i would like to speak briefly about the question of duration. it has been mentioned here twice already. because the seven years we're talking about -- that's up to 2013 -- that's nine years from now. think of the nine years we have to estimate. nine years ago, someone like michael jackson was number one on the charts with the earth song, the name euro was just being coined, and austria, sweden and finland joined the european union. it's been nine years! we have to talk about that kind of time in the future now, so i think you have to be careful. we should really take a second look at this term. four years or three years, that's something else. four years ago we adopted the treaty of nice. you can see that. so let's talk about the terms. let us also talk about the question of flexibility, because we need it. the european union is not a linear development. we need change. we have had to use the flexibility instrument again and again in recent months. you know as well as we do that it is on the agenda to discuss this. i would also like to address the question of the revenue side, because a member of parliament cannot be satisfied with being given only the task and being told over and over again that he is only interested in the highest possible expenditure. we are not! we want to know - since we are talking about net payers and net charges - whether we can actually attach more to the locomotives that have to pull us until they stop, or how this can be done. we are therefore also going to discuss with you the appropriate mechanisms on the revenue side, and my question to you is: are you prepared to involve us, to talk to us, beyond what is in the treaty, are you prepared to take us seriously on the expenditure side and the revenue side, or are you prepared to completely ignore us? all i can do is ask you to cooperate with us, and we'll see results. we'll have to fight off a few more ostriches along the way. but i believe that when confident people get together, each of whom knows what he can and what he should do, then you get results.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say to the president-in-office that we are in agreement with your timetable. however, you did not tell us that a few days ago at the spanish-german summit another timetable was mentioned, namely 2006 as the timetable for unification. that means that there are two timetables being used to juggle the situation, and as a regional politician i can only say: this is irresponsible! the regions need planning certainty. when regional planning expires at the end of 2006, there will be commitments for one year only. we need two years in advance to ensure that the structural funds are spent on time, otherwise there will be a gap in the budget. for regional politicians, the annual cycle is not a solution either. this means that we all share responsibility for the citizens. but the european parliament will reach an agreement next year, and the question for me is: what is the council doing, and what are you doing in particular in the last days of your presidency, to get the member states to move? suppose you moved, as i understand it today, how do you get the others to move? we can only proceed responsibly with the debate if there is some real activity on your part and not just cautious diplomacy as has been the case so far.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there's a time bomb on earth. it's called aids. in recent years, the number of new infections has been increasing alarmingly in europe. eastern europe, both the new member states and russia, is particularly affected. the majority of new infections are among young people aged 15 to 25, particularly women. there is a new recklessness in the handling of hiv and aids. new drugs and therapies have improved the situation of hiv patients, so that the virus is losing its terror and frivolity is becoming a habit for many. this recklessness is deadly! the best protection against hiv is condoms. this fact should be supported and promoted by all sections of society. abstinence certainly protects against aids, but whether to abstain or use condoms should be a personal decision. moral appeals are not going to stop the spread of the virus. instead, we need to promote the responsibility of each individual towards himself and others. and it is the task of politics to create conditions in which every man and woman can make this choice freely. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one. in many countries in africa and asia, aids is depopulating entire regions. one example is south africa. over half the population here is infected with the virus. this is not just a human disaster, but an economic one. i would like to call on the eu member states to take responsibility for the commitments they have already made. we welcome the fact that the united kingdom, sweden and the netherlands, for example, are making financial contributions to the international funds beyond their commitments. unfortunately, some other eu countries have not yet fulfilled their commitment at all or only partially. aids is one of the global challenges of the 21st century. it is the first task of western societies to put a stop to this epidemic. in western societies we need open discussions on new ways of prevention, and in particular african and asian societies are dependent on outside help, on our help.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i'm glad you're still here at this late hour. i would also like to thank mr coelho, first of all, for his report, which is very balanced from a liberal point of view and rightly critical of the council's intention to include biometric data in identity documents. i believe that mr coelho has indicated in his report, without hesitation and with the necessary clarity, the questions which still need to be answered, whether it be the guarantee of data protection or the technical procedure to be clarified for storing the data on the identity documents. in addition to what mr coelho has said, i wonder why it has not been clarified in principle what the costs of including biometric data in identity documents are before the council rushes ahead and takes a decision on this matter. then you have to ask yourself, is this financial responsibility? i am, however, seriously annoyed because the lack of clarity on the substance of the matter inevitably leads me to ask how far the council is going to go in this matter, which is such a serious matter. and i don't necessarily mean that in a technical sense. in this context i have to ask myself - and mr cashman has raised this - how does the council define its relationship with parliament? the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the original council proposal, as mr frattini has already mentioned, envisaged the inclusion of a mandatory biometric feature in eu citizens' identity documents, with the implementation of a further one being left to the discretion of the member states. the new proposal, as it has now been presented, is quite different. this raises two questions, which i ask the council to answer: why has this change been made after consulting the committee responsible? the commissioner's reply suggests that this would undermine the principle of subsidiarity, because individual member states do not have the interest to enforce it personally. and the other question -- and i know that my time is actually up, but there's one question that's still on my mind -- what kind of approach is that? that parliament is threatened ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. sport is an important economic and social factor. its social role and its value for personality development and integration are important. in the current european year of education through sport, with many successful major events, there are also problem areas, such as football. in the helsinki report, the commission announced that it would promote legal certainty in football and work more closely with clubs. the aim is to develop alternatives to the european transfer system, where junior work is often secondary. i am a member of the friends of football working group in the european parliament and have discussed with many players and coaches, club officials and uefa officials about strengthening club self-governance and the long-term training of players at local, national and international level. in most european football leagues, it has become commonplace to use mediocre players - bought cheaply - and to block young talent. they are given far too little time for personal development. when wealthy clubs attract talented youngsters, the frustration of the smaller clubs is great. and in so-called star teams, it is precisely these talents who sit on the bench when quick sporting success is lacking. that's how you raise a good son. the initiative of ivo belet and others is all the more important because the eu is investing far too little in promoting new talent. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european union is a global community of nations, and its members are not to be confused with the united states. i think it is not only coaches, clubs and players who are interested in solutions, but also millions of fans across europe who identify with creative talents and their carefree way of playing.
mr president, our colleagues who are currently in kiev with a delegation have only asked that recital m be deleted, which reads:
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the word 'euro-atlantic' was discussed in the context of the resolution. i am glad that there is european and atlantic solidarity with ukraine, because without partnership with the united states we cannot solve this crisis and effectively support the democracy movement. but i would like to make it clear that ukraine is not a european atlantic country, but a european country, and a purely european country. i would therefore like to make it clear that we should give ukraine a clear european perspective, unlike turkey, which is wrongly considered to be a non-european candidate country. this country deserves our full solidarity. it is a european country which must have a firm european perspective as soon as it meets the criteria, as soon as the european union is able to devote more attention to its policy on ukraine and as soon as its structures are re-established.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was told during my constituency work at the weekend that a woman is likely to be stoned to death in iran in three weeks' time as a result of a court ruling. it is not the case that the european parliament has not been consulted on the matter, but that it has been consulted on the matter. i do not think that the european parliament, let alone the european union, can tolerate actions by states which are moving in this direction. i therefore urge you to check whether a young woman is going to be stoned in iran in three weeks' time and if so, please intervene as much as possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am one of those who have worked for decades to get the czech republic, hungary and poland here in the european parliament. i'm glad to hear it. i would be glad, however, and i want to make this clear, if you would ... (the president withdrew the floor.)
commission. mr president, it is a great pleasure to be here today for your debate on turkey as we approach the critical meeting of the european council which will decide whether to open accession negotiations with turkey. i have followed parliament’s work on turkey very closely and wish to commend members of this house for their commitment to pursue a rational and analytical debate. in particular i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr eurlings, for the balanced report he has drawn up, as well as the committee on foreign affairs for its valuable work. the revised version of the report, which incorporates several compromise amendments, demonstrates the will of this house to obtain a broad consensus on the important issue we are discussing today. in so doing, the report, grosso modo, follows the line of the commission’s recommendation, and i very much welcome this support. turkey, as mr eurlings said, is indeed making progress in bringing into force the outstanding legislation identified by the commission as needed in order to meet the political criteria. we trust that the european council will endorse our recommendation and decide to open the accession negotiations with turkey, as long as this conditionality is met. the commission has proposed a negotiation strategy based on three pillars. the first pillar supports the reform process in turkey. legal and political reforms must be broadened and their implementation consolidated to make them truly irreversible. many of the issues mentioned in mr eurlings’ report will require further attention. i refer in particular to the further consolidation of cultural rights, improving the situation of religious communities, strengthening the fight against torture and ensuring full civilian control of the military. since 6 october, when our recommendation was adopted, there have been further encouraging developments. for instance, the new law on associations and the code of criminal procedure have been adopted. with the appointment of a civilian secretary-general, the national security council is being transformed into an advisory body and its activities are becoming more transparent. i can assure the members of this house that the commission remains committed to monitoring turkey’s compliance with the copenhagen political criteria. these criteria are not subject to any negotiation. the second pillar relates to the framework for accession negotiations with turkey, taking into account the specific characteristics of the country. this does not mean discrimination. turkey’s accession would be different from previous enlargements because of the combined impact of turkey’s population, size, geographical location, economic, security and military potential. for example, i would remind you that turkey’s population is close to that of the ten new member states which joined the union this may. the prospect of turkish eu accession raises many legitimate questions, concerns and worries. it is our duty as democratic politicians to address these concerns of public opinion. therefore, the third pillar of our approach to turkey will be geared towards strengthening the political and cultural dialogue between eu and turkish citizens. it is clear that the european parliament can and should play an important role in pursuing this project. i would like to turn briefly to cyprus, on which i largely share the language in your report. in june the european council welcomed the positive contribution of the turkish government to the efforts of the un secretary-general to achieve a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus problem. efforts to find a settlement must be renewed. it is clear that accession negotiations would be held in the framework of an intergovernmental conference comprising 25 member states on the one hand and turkey on the other. we also expect turkey to sign a protocol extending the association agreement to all 25 member states. eu-turkey relations have a long history. the turkish membership perspective dates back to the association agreement in 1963. in spite of the ups and downs witnessed in the last 40 years, the turkish vocation to join the european union has been reaffirmed many times by the european council, especially since helsinki in 1999. turkey is at present going through a process of radical change, including a rapid evolution of mentalities, as described by mr eurlings. the prospect of accession has proved to be a very important catalyst for turkey to embark upon far-reaching constitutional and legislative reforms. i am convinced that the negotiation process will help to guide further reforms in turkey. by its very nature, this is an open-ended process whose outcome cannot be guaranteed beforehand. the ultimate objective of accession negotiations is accession: an alternative to accession is not on our agenda. to conclude, the necessary preparations for turkish accession could last well into the next decade. the eu will evolve over this period, and turkey should change decisively and fundamentally. in any event, these accession negotiations need to be managed carefully and prepared thoroughly in order to facilitate such a process and an outcome that enhances the achievements of fifty years of european integration. this is our shared goal, and i trust that we will all do our best to succeed in this objective.
council. mr president, today you will debate an important report by mr eurlings on the 2004 regular report and the recommendation of the european commission on turkey's progress towards accession. this debate is timely in view of the decision the european council will take on friday with regard to the opening of accession negotiations with turkey. when we look back to the european council in helsinki in december 1999 and try to visualise where turkey was at that moment in terms of its preparation for the eu, we can conclude that turkey has made impressive progress. it is no exaggeration to state that turkey is changing with almost revolutionary speed. the fall of the berlin wall created the conditions for rapid change in the central and eastern european countries that have become new eu member states since may this year. for turkey there was no such catalyst for change except the long-standing aspiration to join europe and probably the desire for drastic economic change after the devastating economic crises in 2000 and 2001. it is interesting to note in the commission report of october the increasing interaction between the drive for accession and the tremendous modernisation that the copenhagen criteria have stimulated in turkey. the commission quite rightly concludes that this modernisation is in the interests of both turkey and the european union and concludes that accession, if well-managed, would offer important opportunities for both. at the same time, it is true that the challenges on turkey's road to europe are still considerable. this has also been recognised in the report by your rapporteur. the report notes the earlier commitments vis-à-vis turkey and welcomes the substantial reforms turkey has achieved in order to comply with the copenhagen criteria. the report also mentions a number of concerns that still exist with regard to the implementation of the reforms. the report considers that accession negotiations should be opened without undue delay and underlines three important provisions. firstly, in the first phase of the negotiations priority should be given to the full implementation of the political criteria. secondly, the six important remaining pieces of legislation should be adopted and brought into force prior to the beginning of the negotiations. thirdly, all mechanisms envisaged by the commission to ensure close monitoring and intensive political dialogue and the possible suspension of negotiations should be fully effective. i also want to mention another important element that has been raised in the report by your rapporteur, as well as by the commission. in the report the need is underlined to inform citizens of both the eu and turkey, through an intensive political and cultural dialogue, in order to increase awareness of the integration process and foster mutual understanding. i fully agree with this. like the eurlings report, the council has in its preparation for friday's decision taken the commission's report and recommendations as its point of departure. they provide a thorough, comprehensive and good basis for the decision on the opening of accession negotiations with turkey. today the council discussed the draft conclusions in preparation for the decision that the european council will have to take on friday. this decision entails more than a simple 'yes' or 'no' to the question of whether or not to open accession negotiations with turkey. as the commission has already stated in its recommendations and as i can see in the eurlings report, the clear advice is that the decision will need to be inextricably bound up with, for example, close monitoring of the reform process to ensure the irreversibility of that process and its full, effective and comprehensive implementation. in addition the commission has, in its recommendations, addressed concerns in europe relating to turkey's accession – for example concerns about the budgetary impact, or about the free movement of workers. in other words, this decision on turkey will also have to be sufficiently forward-looking. the netherlands presidency has extensively consulted member states in order to prepare for a sustainable decision on friday that does justice to the interests of the european union and of turkey. last tuesday the prime minister of the netherlands visited greece and cyprus: two countries that, as close neighbours, have specific interests in this decision. today the prime minister went to berlin and paris; tomorrow he will be in austria. i was in turkey last week, where i had the chance to meet prime minister erdogan and the foreign minister, mr gul. as you know, turkey also has a number of concerns, such as the suggested permanent safeguard clauses and the commission's paragraph saying that by their very nature negotiations are an open-ended process, the outcome of which cannot be guaranteed beforehand. lastly, turkey is afraid that new criteria other than the political copenhagen criteria will be imposed. i know that you have already had and today will again have an intense debate on turkey, including on the elements of the decision that i have mentioned. i welcome this. i am convinced that a comprehensive debate on turkey's accession to the eu is a prerequisite for a good outcome. for the decision to be sustainable we need political and public support. the netherlands presidency is working towards a fair and balanced decision that will be based on the fulfilment of the copenhagen political criteria. in this context we welcome the thorough and constructive work undertaken by your rapporteur and the committee on foreign affairs in this regard. we look forward to a resolution being adopted by parliament on 15 december.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the decision which the heads of state or government will take on friday, 17 december, is a decision of far-reaching importance. never in the history of the european economic community, the european community and the european union has there been a decision which, in its consequences, can have such a far-reaching impact as that on turkey's membership of the european union. everyone needs to know: if turkey becomes a member of the european union, that european union will have a different character. in our group - and this cannot be otherwise - there are different positions. i would remind you that there are also former heads of government in other parties who are in favour of or against turkey's membership. in our group, the european people's party and the european democrats, we are committed to the fact that there can be no self-commitment, no automaticity, no determination based on remarks made by previous heads of government in this or that direction. we are convinced that the question of turkey is a matter of conscience, or something very close to a matter of conscience, and therefore we naturally accept that everyone votes according to his or her own conscience. i would like to thank mr camiel eurlings very much for his report and for the high priority he gives to human rights in his report. the commission recommends negotiations with an open-ended outcome, albeit with the aim of membership, and our group will set out its position tomorrow evening. there is a group in our group which does not want negotiations and which says from the outset that there should be another form of partnership, what we call privileged partnership. there is another group which wants to have negotiations with the aim of membership of the european union. and there is a third group which wants to have negotiations with the aim of an alternative partnership - also a privileged partnership. but all three positions have in common that we see turkey as a great and important country with which we want to live in partnership and friendship. those in our group who do not want to negotiate or who do not want to negotiate the outcome of a privileged partnership - and i count myself among them - are very concerned that should turkey become a member of the european union, we could expand to the point of death and the identity of europeans could be lost, that the sense of community which is the basis for solidarity in the european union could be damaged. (applause from the centre) we, the european people's party, have asked wolfgang schüssel to coordinate our position, and since unanimity is required at the summit, mr president of the council, i advise you - and i ask you - to have the flexibility as the council presidency to refer to a unanimous decision. if there are negotiations, we are in the very strange situation of negotiating with a country - and we must say this openly and fairly and also acknowledge, we acknowledge the progress that turkey has made - in which there are massive human rights violations. we have heard the word of the year that there is no systematic torture, but if there is no systematic torture, then there is widespread torture. we also know that negotiations are being held with governments. turkey is therefore negotiating with governments, including cyprus, a country which for turkey does not exist at all. this is not logical in itself! we ask the turkish prime minister not to accuse us of using the turkish question for our internal policy. no, we are discussing with the citizens and we must take the people along on the road to european unification! we are not setting stricter standards for turkey either, but turkey is a country of a size that we have never had in the accession process, and that is why we must discuss all this very carefully. the aim must be that this european union has a future as a democratic and capable european union. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the report by mr eurlings is in every respect more nuanced than the speech by mr poettering. that's the positive part i can start with. the rapporteur has worked very hard in the committee on foreign affairs, and i say this on behalf of my colleagues who have worked with you, to reach a broad consensus. you did it. i think the vote in the committee on foreign affairs has shown that the line you have set out in this report, which has been extended to include elements from our group, has led to a broad consensus which can also be the basis for a broad consensus here in the house. and there are three important elements on which our group is in fact strongly opposed to what mr poettering has said here. firstly, why is it that mr poettering's thesis that the eu would have a different character if turkey joined it can be so easily dismissed? if turkey joins this eu, it must submit to the entire body of eu law. if turkey joins the eu, it must, because we all want the constitution, make it the basis of its internal policy once it is ratified. the european charter of fundamental rights then becomes a legally binding constitutional law in a member country, turkey. it will then be demonstrated that the values defined in this charter, which are the basis of the values of our union, are accepted by a country inhabited by 99% or 98% of muslims. the thesis of islamic fundamentalism that the western, that is, our value system and islam are mutually exclusive, this thesis would be strongly refuted if we succeed in integrating this country into the european union, because then the proof would be given that the basic values that we stand for are basic values for all people, whether they are jews, muslims or christians or have no faith. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. (applause from the centre) there is a second point which we should not underestimate: the reforms which turkey has carried out in recent years, initiated by mr erdoğan, and which - i can say this once more with all clarity - are far more progressive than all the reforms undertaken by previous conservative or social democratic governments. nine years ago, on 15 december 1995, i was one of the three rapporteurs here in parliament on the customs union with turkey. mrs çiller was prime minister of turkey. i do not wish to comment further on this. it is not a question of the european parliament being able to give its opinion on the matter. the same woman then formed a coalition with mr erbakan nine months later. that's the past. the credibility gap is over. erdogan has indeed initiated more reforms than his predecessor governments. but that's not enough. but all those with whom we speak in turkey, and you, mr eurlings, can confirm this, all the human rights defenders, all the women's rights defenders, all the democratic organisations, all the democratic associations, the employers' associations and the trade unions, all of them tell us together: the prospect of accession to the european union has changed this country. the prospect of joining this union makes this country a normal parliamentary democracy. all this will not be realized by tomorrow morning. the accession, if it comes, will take place at some point at the end of the next decade. but the chance that this great country will become a normal western democracy, this prospect, is a peace dividend that we cannot dismiss. because what happened, mr. poettering, when you turned the turks away? what happens if this reform process fails? can you take that risk? that's the question i'm asking you. can you tell us what happens in the context of the privileged partnership when the reform process is stopped? we need to hear that from you, too, so don't say anything! we say, and this is our third argument: if we succeed in stabilizing democratic turkey, if we succeed in anchoring the western value system in this society, if we give the turks the chance to become what they want to become, namely people who accept the european value system for themselves in europe, then we will create a european union that will realize its peace process, its peace potential, its democratic stabilizing potential in a region that needs more than ever one thing: democracy, human rights, social security and peace. these are precisely the european union's exports that we should be exporting to turkey - if we succeed! it's not saying it's gonna work. no one can say at the beginning of this process whether it really works. but to not attempt it would be negligent! that is why we as a group agree with your report, mr eurlings. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not in order to comply with the request made by mr schulz for differentiation right from the start, i should like to say explicitly that my group will, on the one hand, vote with a large majority in favour of opening negotiations with turkey and will expressly support what is stated in the report, namely that the aim of these negotiations should be turkey's membership of the eu, but on the other hand we have major problems with the report itself. it is not the fault of mr eurling, whom i have found to be very competent and committed. i must expressly and regretfully say that i am disappointed and also surprised that the socialist and green group in particular have rejected amendments on all the specific questions where it would have been possible to measure in a timely and objective manner in the negotiation process whether there is further progress. we have a balanced critical report, but the criticism is on a metaphysical and so general level that we can hardly work with it. we recognise that turkey has undergone considerable positive political and legal changes over the past two years. but it must be possible to problematize the fact that reality is often not the same. in a report in which we rightly address the problem of the greek orthodox seminary in chalki twice, we must also be able to address the question of the four million kurds who are refugees in a country where more than four thousand villages have been destroyed. unfortunately, unlike other matters, such matters have not been included in this report, and i suspect that this was done to give those who oppose turkey's inclusion no instrument in their hands. but it is precisely in these sensitive matters, where the substance, the premise, the value potential of the european union in its principled nature are at stake - and mrs bonino has raised this problem - that i think this is a tactically completely wrong approach. my group will not support this relativisation. we shall use the negotiation process to continue to put forward what have been the old social democratic and green demands in this necessary concreteness - and i have learned from my colleagues to do so in this form. i was with colleagues in the small kurdish town of kiziltepe where a truck driver and his 12-year-old son were shot dead on 21 november. the governor said two armed terrorists were killed. in every eu member state, a governor would have had to resign. we will continue to build on this scale. i would like to conclude by saying something else: we will not allow turkey to be granted a discriminatory membership instead of a privileged partnership, as the commission proposes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i too would like to thank the rapporteur. it is not a question of the commission's being too rigid, but of the commission's being too rigid. i would first like to address both the opponents of the eurling report and those who are opposed to the opening of accession negotiations. there are two arguments that are often made. the first is a culturalist, who thinks that in the end, hierarchizes religions and cultures in the european union. this has nothing to do with the european union, as the majority here would like. a european union in which one religion is supposed to be more valuable than another, in which there are superior and inferior cultures, has nothing to do with the treaties of rome. the second argument is overload. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's just that it's not like we can take a time-out, a break from world history, where we're concerned with ourselves. the world is not waiting for us, and it is also said that the challenges of fundamentalism, of international terrorism, will not wait for the european union until we are ready to deepen. we must tackle deepening and widening simultaneously. i'm addressing us, the advocates: we commit ourselves to working in partnership with civil society in turkey to ensure that turkey becomes a country free from all forms of torture. we are therefore committed to ensuring that in turkey kurds, circassians, lassians and others can maintain their mother tongue alongside the official language. we are committed to ensuring that every woman in turkey can go to school, can freely choose her partner and can have a partnership free from any kind of violence. finally, we commit ourselves to working with our friends in turkey to ensure that the christian churches in turkey, the diversity of religious communities from alevis to sunnis, all together flourish as the history of the ottoman empire once did, and that includes our wish that the number of christians should not decrease but increase again. this would also strengthen turkey's multicultural and multi-religious character. turkey also has an obligation to help us by continuing the reforms and helping us to convince the european public with heart and mind. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the negotiations that are being held are aimed at breaking two principles. firstly, negotiations are started without the political criteria being fully met. secondly, i am surprised that the political left has this kind of approach to torture and human rights, especially the ability to distinguish between systematic and unsystematic torture. i find it most astonishing that such a distinction is made. i am also of the opinion that the arguments that this is an outreach to the islamic world are not correct. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's report is full of doubts. he says today that the financial aspects cannot be negotiated before 2004 because the eu is not ready. the free movement of workers is being called into question in the long term. the commission's report and, obviously, the preparations of the council presidency already take into account the possibility of failure. that shows the degree of falsehood with which this question is being approached. many who are positive about it end up not believing it works. i also think that this is unfair to turkey, which is in fact so important to us strategically and which needs to be helped to become more democratic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity. these days one thing must be clear, and i would like to contradict mr verheugen here: how can one say that turkey must be admitted at all costs and ukraine cannot be admitted at all costs? no one can explain it to me. that means that both must be included, and i doubt whether the european union can do that from today's point of view. we must therefore look for new ways of opening up a european perspective to all these countries and at the same time allow the european union to grow politically. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr toubon asked what kind of europe we want. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the people of europe are not excluded from the european union. turkey is an important partner and we want it to remain so in the future, in a privileged partnership rather than as a full member of the eu. turkey says that it has been promised full membership for 41 years. that's not right. the aim of the ankara agreement of 1963 was a customs union. that promise has been kept for nine years. turkey is now asking us for full membership without a 'if' or a 'but' before accession negotiations have even begun. this is blackmail. this is perhaps the way to conduct politics in turkey, but not in the eu. the copenhagen criteria apply to all candidate countries. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. these conditions are undoubtedly not met today. the european commission is saying the same thing. why accession negotiations should be opened remains a mystery to the council and the commission. we do not want full membership, but a privileged partnership with a special status that can be tolerated by both sides - the eu and turkey. if accession negotiations are opened against better knowledge, they must be open to results and be able to lead to an alternative, as we want. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. turkey is not and will not be a european country, and therefore the privileged partnership is the right answer to a common future for europe and turkey.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the turkish debate has always been a complete lie. this was the case in helsinki in 1999, when turkey was made a candidate country and so many of them did not want it, and it is still the case today. the commission's current progress report is a detailed description of the fact that turkey does not meet the copenhagen criteria for pre-accession in any of its points. and what is the commission's conclusion? it is recommended that accession negotiations be opened. this is schizophrenia, this is irresponsible! and this european parliament is well on its way to doing exactly the same thing, to making exactly the same mistake. why would you do that? for national or party interests? so, was it selfishness or just fear? do we really want to negotiate with a country where basic human rights are not respected, with a country where women are second-class citizens, where virginity tests, forced marriages, honour killings are commonplace, where polygamy is tolerated? all this is a lifelong torture for the women, and it is irresponsible to negotiate with such a country! in this country, in this turkey, the mentality must first change, something must be done in the minds of the people. you can't force it. you have to convince people, you have to convince people into politics. and that's a change of mindset that takes time. you can't do that fast enough in ten years. it takes at least two or three generations, and why don't we give this country that time? and everyone knows we can't afford turkey. not integration policy, not financial policy, not security policy. the political european union would not tolerate this country, and that is why the whole debate to date, and above all the commission's proposal to make turkey a second-class member state, has been false. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we're destroying ourselves. the only honest offer to turkey is the privileged partnership, the special relationship of neighbourliness, and i ask you to support it!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the heads of state or government made an international commitment to turkey in 1999 and 2002, which they must honour by 17 december. the negotiations must begin, not only for the sake of continuing the reform process in turkey, but also for the sake of the international credibility of the european union. it's not a day of joy, though. for the first time in the history of the european union, the admission of another state is rejected by large sections of public opinion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. and what i have heard in the debate, what has been called a positive, is that with so many ifs and buts, such a far-reaching decision is rarely made. and there is no convincing argument that turkey is strengthening european cohesion rather than weakening it. some see turkey's accession as part of the global approach to combating terrorism. the process of the clash of cultures is to be reversed, but what appears to be a major strategic shift overestimates not only the european but also the turkish possibilities. in any case, there is one thing that turkey cannot be as a member of the eu: a bridge to the middle east. it must be a pillar of the west in the middle east, and as a member of the eu it will be a party, not a mediator. let me be clear about one thing. if turkey's membership were to be paid for by the erosion of the european union, that would be too high a price, not only for the union but also for turkey. he can't be paid. the european council of 17 december should state unequivocally that the decisive criteria will not only be turkey's accession capacity but also the union's capacity to receive and maintain the momentum of european integration.
we are approaching a decision of major importance not only for europe as a whole but also for the political map of the world in the context of globalism. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it in the short term. the report's opponents have once again tried to revive the debate, but in some cases with falsehoods and with new demands that go far beyond what has already been achieved. i should like to say that i have to respect the colleagues among us who do not want to agree to the negotiations on turkey's accession, but i cannot accept arguments which have nothing to do with reality, nor can i accept claims such as those made this weekend by some german conservatives. turkey would bring with it the danger of terrorism and gang crime. this is a slander and an insult to nato partner turkey. this is the level of conflict we should avoid! since 1963, the eu has, brussels has admitted that turkey is part of europe, and in december 2002, the european union committed to opening accession negotiations with turkey if it meets the criteria. it is about the credibility of the european union. contracts and promises must be honoured, that is honest politics. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. democracy there is more stable than ever. the economy is growing rapidly. turkey will continue to be a guarantor of security for the whole of europe. the model character of a european turkey will be reflected throughout islam and thus also in a number of crisis regions. turkey ... (the president withdrew the floor)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the debate is about nothing more and nothing less than the fate and future of the european union. and so it is shocking to see the degree to which the minds are confused in this debate. firstly, there is the constant assertion of the alleged promise of accession to turkey in 1963. mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply, but i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we have won this customs union against the group of mr schulz, who today praised the customs union, because we are friends of a strong and viable turkey. but today is about something else. it is about turkey's full membership of a political union in europe where the outside becomes largely the inside. and whoever wants such an integrated europe cannot be in favour of full membership for turkey, which would degrade this european union into a free trade area. the commissioner is not bound by a so-called promise of accession, he is bound by the commitment of the parliament which elected him and which represents the citizens who overwhelmingly reject such an accession of turkey to the eu. secondly, it is a question of european identity, and here too there are two standards. this is a legitimate question. europe is meaningless without europeans. europe is not the union of all the countries of the world that meet the criteria, but of all the european countries that meet the criteria and want to join. of course, europe has an identity and borders. this cannot be reduced, mr özdemir, to christianity and islam. the bosnian muslims are clearly europeans, the christian ethiopians are clearly not. but i can answer you with a quote from your party friend voggenhuber, who said in one sentence: turkey is not greater europe but asia minor. everything has its limits, including the fact that europe can be integrated, and it is a matter of fact that we must take this into account in our calculations. there are pan-european states such as turkey and russia, and to link them to the integrated europe by means of partial integration - and this is what we mean by our special status or our privileged partnership - is a sensible strategy which ultimately benefits both sides. i keep hearing that you have to be consistent. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. i'd say there's nothing more consistent than lemminge. i do not want to be led by lemmingen, and the peoples of europe do not want to be led by lemmingen either. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i cannot imagine that the criteria will be met in the next few days or weeks. turkey clearly does not meet these criteria, as the eurlings report and the commission report show, but then the consequence must be an honest one. turkey must continue to be supported on its path towards democracy, the rule of law and western integration. that's right. but full membership would be too much for both turkey and the european union and should therefore be rejected in the interests of both. the european council in brussels next saturday will have to consider two things: firstly, is it really in turkey's interest to go down this road and, secondly, is the eu capable of enlargement at all?
commission. mr president, one year ago the european commission adopted a proposal on the rationalisation of european instruments for the recognition of transparency of qualifications and competences. europass is this initiative. it is a step towards a european learning area, as my predecessor said during the first reading. europass will help people make their qualifications and competences clearly and easily understood throughout europe. it will thus make it easier for citizens to find a job or move more easily from one country to another for studies or work. the proposal brings together, in a coordinated portfolio called europass, five existing transparency documents. these are the europass-curriculum vitae, which will highlight personal competences; the europass-language portfolio, which provides an accurate description of linguistic skills; europass-mobility, which records all mobility experiences for learning purposes and replaces existing europass training while giving it wider scope; the europass-diploma supplement; and lastly the europass-certificate supplement. these last documents clarify respectively competences behind a higher education diploma and a vocational training certificate. europass is an open framework which in future could include other instruments, for instance to target specific competences such as computer-related skills. i am pleased to know that this essential feature was endorsed and enriched by parliament, which stressed its importance, as well as by the council, which defined a clear procedure to put it into practice. this illustrates how the proposal, without having been substantially changed, has been improved through the exchange of views between institutions, based on the widespread consensus on both its purpose and content. i wish to stress the remarkable work achieved first by mrs zissener and now by mrs novak, in close contact with the commission and the council. this work has allowed us to reach this final stage. the common position adopted by the council responds to the concerns expressed by both legislative bodies, integrating the amendments proposed by parliament with only two minor changes that leave their substance unchanged. as you know, the commission accepts this common position. i am therefore pleased that mrs novak's report proposes accepting this common position, which would allow its entry into force on 1 january 2005. i intend to go further, proposing to member states and social partners an appropriate instrument to facilitate the transparency of qualifications. we hope the european parliament will support the commission in its efforts. finally, i wish to express my gratitude to the european parliament, in particular the committee on culture and education, for its efforts to speed up the process especially at this second reading phase. i also express my gratitude to both the irish and netherlands presidencies of the council for all their work. europass is a direct service to citizens.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already done so. i would like to thank mrs novak and her predecessor, mrs zissner. the europass is a european seal of approval, with which we are thanking god for the many sunday speeches on citizenship, followed by a small but important act. firstly, it creates transparency throughout europe for all periods of education and training, for the skills acquired in all areas of life. secondly, it creates credibility by confirming and recognising professional and non-professional experience, especially volunteering in the social, cultural and sporting fields, and the acquisition of various language skills. and thirdly, it creates efficiency because it is a tool for communication and recognition of competences for an increasing number of mobile young people and older people. we need more than ever to be closer to the citizens, less talk of a virtual technocratic-bureaucratic europe. we need concrete instruments such as europass. it's a tool of everyday life. europe is a place where you live every day and everywhere. all the educational policies such as comenius, erasmus, grundtvig, e-learning, the recognition of diplomas and now europass are the result of european added value, which gives europe a human dimension. this increase in soul, which puts the individual at the centre of the debate and decision-making about his daily life, is important. europass is a key element not only for the comparability or recognition of professional achievements, but also for the inclusion of social and civic engagement as part of the competences catalogue. i would like to congratulate the commission and all of us for having created this really good tool in such a short time - less than a year - and i very much hope that with the improvements that commissioner figeľ has still envisaged, we will have a good start for europass next year. i wish him and our youth all the best!
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the four weeks since my team received your support, we have rolled up our sleeves and got down to work. our main objective has been to define proposals for a common vision which should guide the action of parliament, the council and the commission in the coming years. that vision will give substance to the partnership for prosperity, solidarity and security that i announced here last july. it will identify the main economic, social and environmental challenges that determine our success and set out priorities and solutions. but this cannot be a one-sided exercise. that is why this debate is important. that's why i'm here today to listen to you. i want to hear the proposals of this parliament as an essential contribution to our joint reflections. i want to hear the concerns and, through you, the opinions of the millions of europeans you represent. why is this so important? because i am sure that the success of this commission, this parliament and the european project we share depends on us showing that the union can make a difference, internally and externally. it is precisely at this time when we are preparing to ratify the european constitution that we must not forget europe's remarkable achievements: half a century of peace and social and economic development and the recent enlargement which represents the reunification of our continent. but we cannot underestimate the challenges we face, which require a european response. the ageing of our populations, the damage to the environment and the consequences of climate change, the need to adapt our economy to the competitive context of globalisation, the threats to peace and security.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the work begins. we have had difficult, sometimes dramatic weeks of confirmation by the commission. it has finally won a large vote of confidence and our group has voted for the commission with great unanimity. and now the work begins. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i think it is very good that you said that you wanted to hear first of all what parliament thought of the work of the commission over the next five years. i also welcome the fact that you say that you will present your programme on 26 january and that you will take account of as many of parliament's considerations as possible. we are trying to develop a common position of parliament, even at this hour. our group has tabled a motion for a resolution which is now being discussed with the other groups. i hope that we will then be able to get parliament's opinion, which will then also lead to the commission and hopefully the council agreeing on a five-year programme. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. firstly, economic reforms in the european union to increase competitiveness and the prosperity of its citizens; secondly, the fight against terrorism and crime, the protection of the external borders of the european union, the prevention of the abuse of asylum systems and the fight against illegal immigration to achieve greater security. as regards immigration, this is also a concern of the people who immigrate illegally. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the mediterranean is not a place where the sea is uncontrolled and where the sea is not controlled. we must work together to find solutions so that people no longer die in the mediterranean. the third priority is a stronger europe in a safer world, to create more stability and to promote democracy and human rights. fourthly, we must have policies that ensure a clean environment and a better quality of life for our citizens. the fifth and final priority is the creation of a more open, more open and more democratic european union, which also functions better and with less administration. i would ask you, mr president of the commission, to take into account in all your proposals whether this leads to more administration, whether it leads to more bureaucracy, whether it violates the principle of subsidiarity and what the cost is. in other words, the european commission's administrative action should take all this into account when it submits proposals. i would like to focus a little more on three aspects: the competitiveness of europe is the key to ensuring that people in the european union have jobs and bread to eat. our main concern must be to maintain and create jobs, and we can only do this if we increase europe's competitiveness. i would ask you, mr president of the commission, to be careful in your language, because the wording of lisbon, the european union should be the most dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, is language that reminds me of nikita khrushchev, who in the 1950s and 1960s wanted to overtake the united states. we know what happened to him! so let us be modest in our speech, but ambitious in our actions. if you do that, you're on the right track. our group, by a large majority, believes that we must not call into question the stability criteria of the stability and growth pact in its very foundations, because new debts would mean that today's young generation would have to pay the debts tomorrow, and that would not make economic sense nor would it be in line with the moral foundations of politics. another important point is the neighbourhood policy. i want to encourage you to take initiatives in the middle east during your presidency, because we see that the americans cannot do this alone. the middle east is a neighbouring region of the european union which is worth all our efforts to bring stability and peace to it, both for israel and for palestine. we know how important all this is for peace and good relations with the arab and islamic world. our priority must be to get the constitution passed, because the constitution is the basis for the peaceful and democratic action of the european union in the 21st century. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i am delighted to see you again this morning, mr barroso. i haven't had a chance to talk to you in a month, i've been really longing for you, and it's good that you're here today to listen and to take something with you on the way. i'm also glad that mrs. kroes is sitting behind you. and i must frankly say that i am pleased to see that after all that has happened in this house, mrs kroes' first action has been to take a critical look at a decision taken by the barroso government in portugal. it's a good sign of independence. mr poettering quotes nikita khrushchev more often than he does mr poettering. there is a reason for this, and i will tell it to the house: he has a doctorate on the security policy of konrad adenauer. the security policy of konrad adenauer was, like many other aspects of his policy, headed "no experiments". the european union will not get anywhere with 'no experiments', mr poettering. i therefore strongly encourage you, mr barroso, not to be cautious - perhaps in your choice of words - but to be courageous in what you put forward as a commission and to take initiatives. and i would like to take this opportunity to give you a start on three key messages from the socialist group, which i have already referred to during the previous debates as the three key elements of our policy in this house. before i repeat those three points, a word of advice, because you're here to listen: whatever initiatives you take will require a large majority in this house. i therefore assume that you will take with you what the socialist group has said and that we will also find it in what you propose for initiatives. the commission's programme is not a mere proposal for a new policy, but it is a proposal for a new policy. that's obvious. if we want to pursue an economic policy in the european union that is oriented towards economic reforms, as mr poettering has said, and if we want to clarify once again where the lines of consensus and conflict lie, then, mr poettering, mr barroso, these economic reforms always mean one thing above all: they must be in the interests of the european union's competitiveness, yes. but above all they must serve the social cohesion of europe. they're two sides of the same coin. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre) mr poettering, if you put counter-terrorism in your second point in the same breath as asylum and immigration, i think it is a dangerous combination of two different phenomena. the fight against terrorism is a key task for the european union. but do not conflate illegal immigration and asylum policy with the fight against terrorism. the fight against terrorism is only partly related to asylum and immigration, but asylum and immigration are a problem which we must urgently solve within the framework of european policy. i therefore believe that the good proposals that already exist and that antonio vitorino put forward in the tampere process years ago should be included in your programme, mr barroso. we want a europe of humanity and a europe which also guarantees the security of its citizens. the european union must be able to protect its external borders as consistently as possible, but at the same time it must also be able to treat those who need our protection with humanity. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission's main task must be to make it clear that, as long as the united states of america does not ratify the kyoto protocol, as long as it does not make its contribution to reducing co2, we europeans must not tire of demanding this from the united states. this is a key task for you as president of the commission. (applause from the centre) i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its preparation of the programme for the next few months. a model of democracy based on multinationality and multi-ethnic structures, such as the european union, can be an export of peace in the world, because the internal structure of the european union is balance and acceptance balance between the big and the small and acceptance, especially towards minorities. if you make this message the basis of europe's international policy, that we want internal reconciliation, as we are doing in ukraine at the moment, for example, and that we want the solution of ethnic conflicts by political rather than military means, then you will always have the social democrats by your side. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the commission's strategic policy objectives are not easy to sum up in two and a half minutes. but since we're in such a pre-christmas mood, let me say this: let us assume that the commission is santa claus and i am a little boy. i would have to reconsider the council's role in this case. whether it's the servant rupert or the santa's elves, i'll leave it at that. now i have the difficult task of formulating my wish list. and my first wish is that i and all the other members will no longer be denied the right to vote in the area of justice and home affairs. the european parliament expects full participation in this area of major importance for the union from 2005 onwards. the basis of our european society is the rule of law, and each citizen follows the standards which the community sets for him, because he believes that they have been examined and approved by the majority of his legitimate representatives. my wish is that this vision becomes reality. my second wish is that we all play by the same rules that we've given ourselves. i believe that it is no longer acceptable for national governments to ignore the institutions they have created in a self-serving glory. if a handful of european interior ministers make decisions in a small circle, then this is a disregard for european democracy. both tampere and the hague programme are good examples of a community and inclusive approach. i hope that we will continue this open dialogue rather than forming small clubs. my third wish is that the requirements of data protection be taken into account. it is time for the third pillar to include an instrument comparable to the data protection directive 95/46/ec. i hope that commissioner frattini will remember the agreement he indicated. my fourth and last wish for today is that the european union will confront terrorism, that it will show that democracy is also the defence of democracy. the european union must prove that it is superior to those who are setting fire to freedom. the victory of terrorism is the destruction of a free society, and we must not contribute to that. i hope that the commission will respect and uphold the fundamental principles of democracy, individual freedom and respect for the importance of data protection. most of the wish lists i've seen and heard in this room are not that short. but for every writer, they are an expression of hope. my hope is that my pre-christmas wishes will not be drowned in the hailstorm of political error.
mr president, mr president of the commission! the economic policy guidelines of the european union's strategy are laid down in the constitutional treaty. let me give you three examples from part iii: article 177/78: principle of an open market economy with free competition, article 147/48: relativisation of public services guaranteed by the state, article 203: employment policy is subordinated to economic policy. this leads to ruthless competition for the lowest bidder in social, environmental and occupational safety and health policy. the commission's course has led you in the same direction. you ask for a navigation system, but you already have one: the services directive, the ports directive, the third railway package. if you really want advice on where the european commission should put its navigation system, i can give you that in a very short slogan: social rather than market-based!
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. what's the next five years about? i would like to make just three points: firstly, our major task after 1 may 2004 is to stabilise the process of european integration. we must not overstretch ourselves and now too quickly admit too many new member states into the european union, but we must consolidate what has been achieved, together with our ten new member states who are willing to do so and who also want to make an active contribution to this. secondly, it is a question of strengthening the competitiveness of the european union, and a lot of things depend on that. i would also like to make this point very clear: does it make sense - and i am glad that the vice-president is here - to use the reach project to strengthen the competitiveness of industries outside the european union and to introduce a programme of deindustrialisation in our country? i would like to reiterate what mrs schierhuber said on the sugar market: does it make sense to allow sugar produced in a way that is harmful to the environment and to people in brazil to enter the european union while making life more and more difficult for our farmers? are we thereby increasing the competitiveness of the european union? these are the questions which the commission will have to address over the next five years. the third theme is also about building confidence in the euro. we have a common purpose here. the people have been very critical of this project of the single currency. our task must be to give this young currency a correspondingly positive perspective. this means, in concrete terms, that the stability pact must not be made available. it is not a question of intelligent interpretation either, but europe will not be able to solve its problems of an ageing population and the shrinking options for the younger generation in a lasting way unless we find a way out of the debt trap in all the member states. the stability pact is very disciplining and must be defended and not abandoned.
this is an important question, ladies and gentlemen. you know, of course, that since the charter of fundamental rights, we have been absolutely protecting property rights. the services of the house received notice this morning that some flags that were in the room are no longer in the room. even after intensive research, it was not possible to determine who removed the flags and where they were. i ask for the understanding of the polish and other colleagues. we'll keep looking to see if the flags are still showing up in any form, but right now they're just gone. (applause from the centre) i must point out, however, that it has not been the practice of this house to make flags to identify individual delegations. (applause and protest) i would also like to point out that the bureau has already raised the matter yesterday at the request of a vice-president and that this flagship issue will be formally on the agenda for the next bureau meeting and will be dealt with.
we shall now proceed to the vote. pursuant to rule 117 of the rules of procedurerequest for consultation of the european economic and social committee, on behalf of the committee on agriculture, on the proposal for a council regulation on support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) (com (2004) 0490 c6-0181/2004 2004/0161 (cns)) (parliament adopted the resolution) pursuant to rule 118 of the rules of procedurerequest for consultation of the committee of the regions, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the proposal for a council regulation laying down general provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund (com (2004) 0492 - 2004/0163 (avc)) (parliament adopted the resolution) on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european regional development fund (com (2004) 0495 c6-0089/2004 2004/0167 cod)) (parliament adopted the resolution) proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the establishment of the european social fund (com (2004) 0494 - 2004/0166 (avc)) (parliament adopted the resolution) proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data (com (2004) 0496) pursuant to rule 43 (1) of the rules of procedure, recommendation (a6-0060/2004) by enrique barón crespo, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an additional protocol to the economic partnership, political coordination and cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the united mexican states, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic to the european union (com (2004) 07070 c6-01900/2004 2004/0085 (avc)) (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (a6-0062/2004) by enrique barón crespo, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european community and its member states, of a protocol to the agreement on cooperation and customs union between the european economic community and the republic of san marino to take account of the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic to the european union (com (((2004) 0258 c6-00/2004 48 2004/0083 cns)) (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) report (a6-0035/2004) by mr joseph daul, on behalf of the committee on agriculture, on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 87/328/eec as regards the storage of bovine semen for intra-community trade (com (2004) 0563 c6-0117/2004 2004/0188 (cns)) (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) report (a6-0034/2004) by mr joseph daul, on behalf of the committee on agriculture, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1257/1999 on support for rural development by the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund (eaggf) (com (2004) 0652 c6-0162/2004 2004/0234 (cns)) (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) report (a6-0036/2004) by joseph daul, on behalf of the committee on agriculture, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1782/2003 establishing common rules for direct payments under the common agricultural policy and establishing certain support schemes for farmers and regulation (ec) no 1788/2003 on the levying of a levy in the milk sector (com (2004) 0710 c6-0170/2004 2004/0253cns)) report (a6-0064/2004) by mr elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulations (eec) no 3906/89, (ec) no 1267/1999, (ec) no 1268/1999 and (ec) no 2666/2000, in the light of the candidate status of croatia (com (2004) 0732 c6-0199/2004 2004/0260 (cns)) report (a6-0038/2004) by pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation on statistics (com (2004) 0645 c6-0175/2004 2004/0227 (cns)) (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) report (a6-0045/2004) by giuseppe gargani, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation on the financial and technical support measures (meda) for the reform of economic and social structures in the framework of the euro-mediterranean partnership (codified version) (com (2004) 0077 c5-0091/2004 2004/0024 (cns)) report (a6-0046/2004) by giuseppe gargani, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the procedures for consultation and notification in the field of credit insurance, guarantees and financial credits (codified version) (com (2004) 0159 - c6-0015/2004 - 2004/0056 (cns)) report (a6-0047/2004) by giuseppe gargani, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a council directive requiring member states to maintain minimum stocks of petroleum and/or petroleum products (codified version) (com (2004) 0035 c5-0063/2004 2004/0004 (cns)) (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) report (a6-0044/2004) by mr philippe morillon, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council decision on the withdrawal of the european community from the convention on fishing and the conservation of living resources in the baltic sea and the belts (com (2004) 0577 c6-0113/2004 2004/0197 (cns)) in accordance with rule 131 of the rules of procedure, recommendation (a6-0054/2004) by mr alexander stubb, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the decision of the representatives of the governments of the member states concerning the discharge to be given to the secretary-general of the convention in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2003 (c6-0210/2004 2004/2177 ((avc))), parliament adopted the legislative resolution. report (a6-0066/2004) by mr esko seppänen, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a council decision on a community guarantee against losses under loans granted by the european investment bank for certain projects in russia and the western new independent states (wnus) (com (2004) 0385 c6­0073/2004 2004/0121 (cns)) (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) report (a6-0048/2004) by mrs ewa klamt, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation (sec (2003) 0255 10666/2003 12383/2004 c6­0070/2004 2003/0043 (cns)) (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) report (a6-0058/2004) by ian hudghton, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive adapting directive 77/388/eec to take account of the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic to the european union (8754/2004 com ((2004) 0295 c6-0074/2004 2004/0810 (cns)) (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the mobilization of the flexibility instrument this year is closely linked to the success of the budgetary consultation and the necessary agreement we have reached between the institutions. and i say, looking back, almost at the end of the present financial perspective, mr president of the council: how good it is that back then, in 1999, the european parliament won this flexibility instrument in lengthy negotiations; the council's priorities in implementing the budgets of recent years have also benefited greatly from this. i would remind you once again that the flexibility instrument, whose annual ceiling was set at eur 200 million in the may 1999 agreement, is designed to deal with unforeseen circumstances and that paragraph 24 of the interinstitutional agreement states that this flexibility instrument should not normally be used for the same purpose in two consecutive financial years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the conclusion we have drawn from this almost annual procedure is that this flexibility has sometimes been over-used in interpretation. i would point out that this year we have a total of 185 million euros, of which 45 million euros are for the peace 2 programme, 40 million euros for the agencies - obviously one of the council's most important priorities and always at risk of undermining important programmes of european added value in category iii - and 100 million euros for the reconstruction of iraq. it is in this context that i would like to point out that in the current 2004 budget, out of a total of 90 million euro for iraq, 74 million were already financed in 2004 through the flexibility instrument. this, as you can see, is hardly representative. normally, you shouldn't do it like this. i think it would therefore be very useful to incorporate the experience gained in the past years in applying the flexibility instrument into the discussion on the new financial perspective and the necessary flexibilities. i would also like to say that we are talking about a total of 106.3 billion euros in payments in the 2005 budget and about a flexibility of 200 million euros. the interesting thing about this year is that for the first time not only category iv - foreign policy - benefits from this use of the flexibility instrument, but that for the first time category ii and category iii also necessarily benefit from this negotiating result. this has also led, as an additional result, to the fact that on the basis of this agreement it was also possible - in a kind of emergency legal and budgetary operation - to include the financing for northern cyprus in category vii, at 120 million, and to increase the appropriations for the common foreign and security policy by 10 million to 62.5 million. let me make a final remark, mr president: in the light of this experience and the almost annual debate on the use of the flexibility instrument, it must be clear both in the council and in parliament when discussing the new financial perspective: the longer we fix a financial perspective - 2007 to 2013 or whatever - the longer the period for such a definition, the more we will need more flexibility also in view of the unforeseen in the coming years and will also demand this from the council in the negotiations on the financial perspective.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking our three rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done. i should also like to include our committee chairman and, of course, the staff of the committee secretariat, who have given us as members of parliament the information we need to be able to stand up to a council that is so rigid. mr president-in-office, there is of course a taste of the aftermath of our negotiations. i want to be very clear about this. the european union is, of course, supposed to save. we must be frugal in our budget, we must be responsible in the way we use the tax money of the citizens of europe. but the question i have is: is it the task of the annual budgetary procedure to propose a budget with increasingly abstract proposals, which you already know today will be supplementary next year? that's not a serious approach. in none of the 25 member states would such behaviour be accepted by the national parliament. i want to make this very clear. secondly, please try to keep your colleagues in the foreign ministers' departments and the specialised departments in check. it is not fun - and i say this in anticipation of the negotiations which mr böge has mentioned here - to set ceilings on the financial perspective when it is clear to everyone involved that these are the desired figures which, hopefully, will never be reached. then be more honest. we are almost five billion euros away from the agenda 2000 ceiling. get down there! so please let us talk about how much money we really need in agricultural policy, and not about the budgetary procedure - the commissioner is just saying that she may need a supplementary budget - setting the amounts. let us not make promises to the ten new countries, and then we will save money when it comes to running a budget with a fetish size of 1.0. that is my request and that is also the lesson i have learned from these negotiations. we have achieved a great deal together, but there has to be a little more seriousness in the negotiations. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. today we are discussing agreement with the council on the 2005 budget, but we are also looking at the way the 2006 budget is going and what we can expect in the next few years with regard to the financial perspective for 2007-13. i therefore want to make it quite clear that my political assessment of the results we achieved in 2005 is one of tears and one of laughter. the positive evaluation relates to the flexibility instrument. mr böge, to whom i would like to add my support, has made it very clear that we have succeeded in making these funds available now - both for the internal policy area, the agencies, and for foreign policy, especially for electoral support in iraq. this is a success, and from our point of view as members of parliament, it was a success that was urgently needed to meet all the challenges here. i think it is essential that we have been able to maintain our focus in the area of the lisbon strategy, namely the upgrading of information policy so that we can address the citizens and voters in europe more effectively. the fact that the life programme and the environmental programme have not been destroyed is also, from a green point of view, of course, progress and important. i would like to make it equally clear that my negative assessment is aimed at the outlook for payments in 2005. we conclude that this round of negotiations did not leave any room for manoeuvre. i am not going to go into the details of the budget. i very much support mr ferber's criticism of the council and his statement that this 1% criterion is a false fetish of the council. i say this very clearly to you, because i was very pleased to hear him say so and it is not often that mr ferber and i agree. i believe that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's right, you're right. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but you must also take our question seriously, because if you have to set priorities, then of course national governments have to do the same. i think it is a mistake to think that you have to save unilaterally at the expense of european policy. the threat of renationalisation of policy is a mistake for an enlarged europe - we are dealing for the first time with the budget of 25 member states - with new tasks, new challenges. if we want to make a truly european policy, we must also have the political courage to make it reflected in the budget. i do not see that at the moment in the position of the net contributor countries and the 1% fetish. i think that's a political mistake. if we want to develop our wonderful continent together and do more in the field of economic renewal, spending on education, youth and new talents, then we must move together, including with you, the council and the net contributor countries - and i am also criticizing the red-green federal government in germany - to achieve more here for the good of europe. i should like to conclude by expressing my thanks to all the staff of the committee on budgets. i hope that we will continue to work together in the coming years with the same energy to achieve a great deal for europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have started our work on the basis of the commission's communication, on the basis of the commission's proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for example, you said at a meeting of the standing committee on agriculture that this was 19th century policy. if that is so, what is the commission's proposal to change that? or is it not a contribution to lisbon and sustainability, especially when i look at the current decisions on the agricultural reform? mr verheugen says: 'to make lisbon a success, we need more responsibility and greater commitment from the member states. that's certainly true. but the question of european added value: should lisbon implement the budget more strongly, especially with regard to the programmes of european added value, research, multiannual programmes in education, this is part of our agenda. if it is reported that there is already discussion, for example, internally, about the possibility of departing from the 1.14% and then it is suggested that 1.06% and 1.07% are a workable compromise, then i, as rapporteur, must say very clearly at this point: no one in the other institutions should believe that parliament is prepared to negotiate even below the margins that article 272 of the treaty allows us as a network. i would add that this is the first time that the commission has included the budget in the 1.14% of the commission's proposal. commissioner, you also described a crisis scenario, which is what can happen if there is no agreement. we want to reach an agreement, and that is why we insist once again on a monthly trilogue, which can ensure that the most difficult chapters are not dealt with at the end of the procedure, but that the question of flexibility, the duration of the financial perspective and many substantive issues can be discussed and discussed in a timely manner in a permanent dialogue between the institutions. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already done so. i am speaking as the coordinator of my group on behalf of the committee of the regions. we are dealing here with the second largest single budget, because cohesion and structural policy is a very large single budget after the agricultural budget, with a 35% share. now, in addition to the tasks we have to perform as parliament in relation to the financial perspective, we have, of course, also the task in the specialised committees and especially in the committee of the regions to prepare the relevant regulations for each of the funds for the new financial period 2007 to 2013. i believe that by enshrining this cohesion and structural policy in our constitution, on the basis of the lisbon and copenhagen decisions, we will be creating very modern policy approaches to implement a european policy for the citizens. but we need a reliable statement and working basis for our work in the committee of the regions, which in my view and in the opinion of our group can only be the prodi proposal. i would like to make a marginal remark here, but i have the impression that regional policy is obviously being used by everyone as a kind of savings bank. the council, by trying to impose one per cent and then of course wanting to save the majority on structural policy because agriculture is already stuck. by the commission commissioner, i have personally witnessed you, both in the committee on budgets and in the standing committee on the political challenges and budgetary means of the enlarged union 2007-2013, saying more and more often that we need a financial perspective. i think the second half of the sentence is missing, no matter how good or bad it is. we can't afford to do that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would mention, for example, the shift of funding for natura 2000 away from the environment and towards structural policy. but i also say that regional policy was necessary in the old eu of 15, and it is necessary in the new eu of 25. we need efficiency, but we cannot afford to punish a large part of the population by drastic cuts in this area for something we all wanted and which the european union has always made tangible and tangible to millions of citizens. you say, commissioner, that the newspapers only reported ducks. in germany there is a saying: "where there is smoke, there must be fire". that is why the debates on 1.05% or 1.06% are not helpful. i would like to remind you that the european union has always done well when the commission strengthens parliament and parliament, on the other hand, strengthens the commission. we can negotiate well together, with or against the council.
the debate will be closed at 9 p.m.
the next item is the question time with questions to the commission (b6-136/2004). part i
question no 32 by mrs tzampazi (h-0413/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: dioxin detected in dairy products in the netherlandsa few years after the food chain problems caused by dioxin-infected poultry and bse at european level, a new case is causing concern among european citizens. the discovery of carcinogenic dioxins in dairy products in the netherlands is bringing to life the nightmares of the recent past. europe has not succeeded in controlling these phenomena affecting staple foods and posing a major threat to public health. what additional measures does the commission intend to take to counter this new threat and to ensure food security in the european union once and for all in the future?
the commission. i would add that the maximum levels of dioxins have already been set and there are strict standards. at the same time, the emphasis has been on the whole food chain, not only the final feed product but also the production mechanism and, for this reason, the instruments used for production will also be checked. i would also like to inform the honourable member that we are moving towards the adoption of a regulation on the hygiene of feedingstuffs in the near future, with the aim of establishing strict rules and critical steps in the production process where all hygiene rules must be adopted, and i believe that this will also address the concerns of the honourable member.
question no 33 by mr caspary (h-0419/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: administrative fees for co2 allowances in the context of emissions tradingin germany, administrative fees of several hundred thousand euros are occasionally due for the application for co2 licences in the context of emissions trading. what is the basis for calculating these fees? are these charges uniform across the eu and if not, how does the commission intend to level these differences? does the commission generally consider that these fees should be levied? what is the total expected burden of fees on issuers?
commission madam president, the emissions trading directive does not contain any provisions on administrative charges. the application and level of these charges are therefore a matter for national competence. we know that member states have different approaches to licensing fees under directive 96/61/ec on integrated pollution prevention and control. the competent authorities responsible for issuing permits bear costs and each member state may decide how it wishes to finance these costs. the commission therefore does not have estimates of the total level of administrative burdens imposed on co2 emitters. i would also like to say that i am replacing mr dimas, who is excused because he is attending the conference of the parties to the united nations convention on climate change. you know this is a very important conference and he asked me to cover for him.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you very much, but do you agree that different administrative charges significantly disrupt the internal market and create different competitive situations in different member states? and do you agree that in some member states the administrative fees are significantly higher than the actual administrative burden and that the commission should make appropriate improvements to ensure the internal market?
commission. as i said, the review of the emissions trading directive will start at the beginning of 2005. it will be a major stakeholder survey and will cover a broad range of issues. i can forward your question to my colleagues and perhaps ask them to carry out a study so that we can compare the situation in each country. it seems reasonable to me to have this information but i repeat that taxation and charges are not the competence of our commission. it is up to each member state to decide the level of charges and taxation, as is the case for other products.
question no 34 by mr ignasi guardans cambó (h-0447/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: piracy in the information society piracy is a clear infringement of intellectual property. it has a devastating impact on the financing of the cultural industries and in particular on the production and distribution of sound and audiovisual works. in the age of the information society, audiovisual creators create content for the internet and at the same time look for new technology to disseminate this content. the new technologies may facilitate the dissemination of culture, but there is also a risk that if piracy is not tackled, authors will not be adequately compensated. in addition to police and judicial action, social education is likely to play a major role. the citizens are not aware of the value of intellectual property in the information society and therefore do not understand why piracy should be a criminal offence. the commission can play a significant role in educating and raising public awareness, especially among young people, of the dangers of piracy in the information society. what measures does the commission propose to provide information and to protect the european audiovisual industry?
commission. the commission will continue monitoring what is going on in individual member states. various member states such as the united kingdom, france and germany have already put in place large-scale education and awareness programmes. the commission does not have more resources than member states. it is a matter primarily for member states to ensure that the point you have validly raised is more widely known, along with the problems that arise from unlicensed and illegal copying. i am informed that the black market value of illegal cds and dvds is three times that of cannabis, and the profit margins are eight-fold. therefore it is a much more profitable activity, with lower risks of being caught and lower penalties. it is thus in the interests of the member states to ensure that awareness measures are in place in an effort to stop this activity.
question no 35 by anna hedh (h-0439/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: costs of travel to strasbourg moving a parliament of 732 members at least once a month is costly. paper, office supplies, cars and people have to be transported, which is inefficient and leads to unnecessary red tape. the low turnout in the european parliament elections in the spring shows that people are not sufficiently interested in the european union, which is a serious political problem. the solution to the problem is not to let the institutions move back and forth between two european states. this will only lead to more people turning away from the eu. we politicians must be close to the citizens we represent and take their everyday problems seriously. we could do that even if the european parliament were based in only one country. it is not acceptable to our fellow europeans to spend such a large sum on such trips. can the commission state what costs this is incurring for the european union and can it justify this system vis-à-vis the european citizens?
commission. first of all i would like to say that the question of the seat of the european parliament is covered by protocol no 8 on the establishment of the seats of the institutions, specific organisations and services of the european communities such as europol, and is annexed to the treaty of amsterdam. the question of the location of the institutions has had a very high priority and concerns a high level of decision-making, relating not only to the location of our institutions in brussels and strasbourg, but also to luxembourg. this concerns a very high-level political decision. for the commission the total cost of missions of officials to strasbourg amounted to eur 1.7 million in 2003. this includes all the costs of missions, including those of commission officials and members of commissioners' offices. so this is not a large amount of money. a slightly higher amount is forecast for the future. you asked about all the costs for the union. we do not have a very precise overview of all costs, but we know that for the european parliament the costs are much higher. according to the march 2004 report by mr van hulten, mep, the total cost of having part-sessions in both brussels and strasbourg amounts to about eur 200 million annually. mr van hulten favoured brussels as the single seat of parliament and he was supported by parliament's committee on budgetary control. the commission is not in a position to judge the functioning of the european parliament.
commission. that is your opinion. as i said, the location of the european institutions was decided in 1957 and it has continued to be a very high level of political decision-making. the commission is ready to discuss all these issues. it is very difficult to estimate the costs to the environment, but the amount of money in our budget for 2003 was eur 1.7 million.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. do you agree that strasbourg is the seat of parliament, and do you agree that parliament goes to brussels only in a way that is commensurate with the reduction of bureaucratic burdens in cooperation with the other european institutions, but has its headquarters here in strasbourg? and do you agree that this sum of 200 million euros, which you have called the annual cost, is not the additional cost but the total cost of running the parliament?
commission. this is a political question and i have no comments on it. this was decided in 1957. i can assure you that the commission has no intention of proposing any changes on this complicated matter.
question no 36 by mr paul van buitenen (h-0463/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: failure to take account of parliament's wish to make the post of director of olaf vacantthe commission considers that paragraph 50 of the resolution in parliament's report a5-0393/03 which states: reminds that the term of office of the current director expires in march 2005; [parliament] requests the commission to publish a notice of the vacancy of the director in the official journal in spring 2004, so that the competent committee of the parliament may hear the suitable candidates in autumn 2004 on the basis of a proposal from the monitoring committee was disregarded? if not, why not? if so, why? in the interests of transparency, can the commission give a precise list of all the steps and decisions taken since the adoption of the report on the appointment of mr brüner's successor? does the commission intend to open a tender for the post of director of olaf?
commission. the commission realises clearly that this is a specific post and that parliament and council must be consulted on the appointment of the director. the deadline is 1 march, which is when the term expires. if we publish it now, the competition procedure will be quite short. i hope that at the beginning of next year we will have enough time to consult with the relevant parliamentary committee and the council about proposed candidates. we will try to select candidates as soon as possible and then start the consultation with parliament. the commission has no intention of reducing parliament's role in this very sensitive matter.
question no 37 is therefore inadmissible since the author is not present.
question no 38 by mrs westlund (h-0440/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: challenges for public service enterprises public service enterprises have a fundamental role to play in a democratic society. they are a means of control, allowing different views to be heard and different points of view to be represented, and they provide neutral and comprehensive information. the market does not have to fulfil such tasks, nor can it meet the needs of programmes for minority groups in society. the development of the media sector is promoted by public service enterprises. the mass media are increasingly using new technologies, but the need for public service enterprises is not diminishing due to the new media landscape in the knowledge and information society, on the contrary. in the light of technological developments in the media sector and the increased need for an independently funded media sector, how does the commission intend to ensure that public service broadcasters in the european union can maintain their position in the face of the increasing use of new media technologies?
commission. the honourable member's question covered two areas: firstly cultural diversity, pluralism and independence and secondly achieving a knowledge-based economy. cultural diversity is enshrined in community law, mainly in the amsterdam protocol. the second aspect is an innovation-encouraging and technology-welcoming strategy. both these objectives have a vital role to play in the future eu. community law does not exclude the possibility of defining new media services as a public service. however, new technologies must be embraced by all actors – both public and private – for a successful information society for all. this means that appropriate public service obligations may be needed and imposed in the environment of these new technologies. the commission communication of 2001 on the application of state aid rules to public service broadcasting confirms that the member states are responsible for the financing and definition of public service broadcasting. in that communication the commission does not exclude the possibility that certain on-line activities could be performed as a public service. thus member states may take appropriate actions to achieve the objectives mentioned. however, i should like to remind you that other media players – both existing operators and new entrants – have a role to play in contributing to pluralism, cultural diversity, innovation, competitiveness and consumer choice.
commission madam president, there is a hierarchy of directives and the directive dealing with television is the 'television without frontiers' directive. the treaty is also important and the amsterdam protocol is very clear on this. for this reason, in order to emphasise legal certainty, the commission published in 2001 its communication on state aid to public television and included expressly the possibility for member states to provide, in the same vein, for public television the internet among others insofar as the internet participates in the public sector and its obligations.
question no 39 by mr luis francisco herrero-tejedor (h-0479/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: definition of 'public service contract' and public service broadcasting the commission has so far refused to heed complaints from private television broadcasters criticising the unfair competition they face. the unlimited guarantee granted by the state to public service broadcasters often goes far beyond the net cost of the public service contract. in addition, many public broadcasters use the support they receive (in some cases, more than 92% of the revenues) to offer a similar programme to that offered by private broadcasters, which has nothing to do with the fulfilment of the public service mission. the fact that each country is free to define its own definition of 'public service contract' means that many of them use a very broad definition whereby all programmes can be considered to be public service contracts. despite the provisions of the protocol on public service broadcasting in the member states, does the commission not consider that, in the interests of greater transparency and compliance with competition law, it would be appropriate to establish a uniform definition of 'public service contract' at community level? would the commission be prepared to put forward an initiative in this respect?
commission the honourable member knows very well that the commission cannot go beyond the texts that exist. however, as discussions are currently under way with the professional sector on a possible revision of the 'television without frontiers' directive, it is time to put another definition on the table, if necessary. so i expect to see contributions from the public and private sectors in this area. i would also say to the honourable member that if a complaint is made by the private sector about unfair competition, the commission takes up the complaint, analyses whether the public sector is right or wrong and approves or rejects the requests made. several interesting authorizations can be noted, which are cases of species. thus, the state aid to kinderkanal and phoenix was authorised, as was the aid to bbc 24 hours and other programmes of the same type, because they were compatible with the rules. others have been modified or rejected. we still have cases under analysis, and you can be sure, mr president, that the commission is always trying to apply the rules and to ensure that there can be free competition between a public sector and a private sector which must not be stifled.
question no 40 by mr howitt (h-0487/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: access to digital television services in europe what further action will the commission take to maintain and develop subtitling and audio description in the transition to digital television services?
commission. i would like to assure the honourable member that i remember his letter of 25 november 2003 on the subject very well. now that i am responsible not only for the television without frontiers directive but also for the new media in general, i will certainly put even more weight on this question than i did before. the answer to the honourable member's question is that the study on the policy models will start at the beginning of 2005 and will finish roughly one year later, between the beginning and middle of 2006. as for the contact committee, its work is continuing and the results will be published on the web in early 2005.
commission madam president, it is obvious that the commission is obliged to respect technological neutrality. what is true for one technology must be true for another, and our respect for people who have difficulty participating fully in the information society must be the same whatever the technology. so, in substance, it doesn't change anything, but in form, of course, as we encourage broadband technology, it's clear that people with hearing or visual impairments need to be helped. we are also seeing that, for example, third generation telephones really make it possible to meet these people and give hearing-impaired people the opportunity to use the telephone by means of lip image transmission.
question no 41 by mr ebner (h-0496/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: product placement it has recently been observed that in the debate on the television directive, the television broadcasters are trying to blur the lines between editorial content and advertising. the branded goods industry is increasingly dissatisfied with the block advertising on television and therefore increasingly tries to market its products by means of sneakers or "product placement". how does the commission assess the increasing use of 'product placement' in television programmes? does the eu commission see a need for regulation in relation to the increasing use of 'product placement' in television programmes?
the commission, madam president! i try to be as exemplary and to be brief. the commission is prepared to work closely with the parliamentarians who are concerned with consumer protection and with consumer organizations in the revision of this directive.
question no 42 by mary honeyball (h-0497/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: privacy and electronic communications does the commission consider that, under the 2003 regulations on the protection of privacy in electronic communications (directive 2002/58/ec oj l 201, 31.7.2002, p. 37), and in particular the restrictions on the processing of location data, paragraph 14, a person who has consented to a passive location service and whose location is to be determined must be informed accordingly before any attempt is made to determine his location? is the approval of the commission also required before such information is disclosed?
commission. i would say to the honourable member that if there were a problem of that sort, or if information were not made available to the consumers, then making a complaint to the national responsible body would be the right thing to do.
question no 43 by mr staes (h-0411/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: mass rape in the democratic republic of congoa report by amnesty international on mass rape in the democratic republic of congo (drc) was published on 26 october 2004. the eu-drc strategy paper cooperation strategy and indicative programme 2003-2007 also addresses this issue. the social, political and economic situation in the democratic republic of congo is reported to have had a 'very negative impact' on the human rights situation. can the commission state what lasting results have been achieved in the field of public health and the restoration of the rule of law in the democratic republic of congo as described in its strategy paper? can the commission also state whether it considers it urgently necessary to provide funds from the intervention budget (b) for the physical and psychological care of thousands of rape victims?
commission madam president, i would like to add to the honourable member's point of view. you know very well that i am very sensitive and very concerned about the situation in the great lakes countries and, in particular, about what is happening in the east of the congo. that is why, when i leave you tomorrow morning, i will fly to that region to go around all those countries again and take stock of their leaders. i too am aware of the new cases of extremely serious abuse and violence, which are once again taking place in this region in particular. it is not just the former far interahamwe who are a problem, but also gangs that are more of a gangster and others who are really living off the backs of the people and are the cause of some very terrible tragedies. so, between december 15th and 20th, i'm going to be touring the capitals. i will be meeting with the presidents of these countries and various officials, including un officials, to see what the international community can really do and, above all, what the international community is finally willing to do. we know very well that it is not the congolese army or the congolese police that can solve this question. they are not in a position to do so at present and it would be better to provide monuc with another mandate: its means of projection capacity on the ground should be increased. you also know very well that the current mandate does not allow, for example, for disarmament by force, but simply for the recovery of arms from those who wish to return them. so there is a principle of voluntarism and i will try to convince those who are speaking to me. i will first try to convince the rwandans and the congolese to remain calm and not to act in a hurry, at the risk of reopening a conflict at a time when we are in the middle of the transition process. so i will first try to convince them of the need to preserve the transition process. secondly, i will try to convince the international community, which is present in the region through institutions such as the united nations, of the need to finally take the necessary decisions to settle this issue once and for all, because, as you have very well said, the rule of law is no longer really a reality in this region. however, the proof that i am in full agreement with you is that i will be going to the region tomorrow to make another tour and to take stock of the situation there. there is the question of the elections in the congo, the electoral calendar, what still needs to be voted on in parliament to be able to hold these elections. you know, as i have already had the opportunity to say publicly, that i am in favour of not changing the electoral calendar in order to maintain pressure on the authorities. i will also plead in kigali that there be no incursions of kigali troops into foreign territory. so you see, i'm going to go over the whole situation again. unfortunately, mr staes, i do not have the power to solve the problem myself and i can only hope that the force of persuasion will pay off this time. but you can be sure that i will be responsive to your concerns because they are my own.
question no 45 by mr manolis mavrommatis (h-0435/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: effective use of the union's humanitarian aid the awareness of the governments of the 25 member states and their immediate mobilization and response to the calls for help of people in need has now reached unprecedented proportions. unfortunately, in many cases the messages that reach us from certain parts of the world, such as recently from the ivory coast, do not reflect the most favourable conditions. the outbreak of civil wars, often spreading to other lands, such as those in asia, africa, and central america, is a cause for concern. the european union is providing humanitarian aid to these countries. but how can we ensure that the aid measures and the material aid are delivered to the people who are suffering, as in the case of côte d'ivoire or darfur, where fighting continues, with dozens of victims, and where there is anarchy and lack of leadership? what preventive measures is the european union taking to deal with such situations now and in the future?
commission when we are absolutely certain that this aid will not come, it is only natural that we ask to stop it. that said, i admit that it is extremely difficult, because we need real-time information. this information usually comes to us through the field operators, whether ngos, international organisations, etc. all this is happening in extremely delicate and extremely sensitive circumstances. so before you stop the humanitarian aid or the delivery, or the attempt to deliver, you have to do a serious analysis. you cite the example of côte d'ivoire. nor should we, by stopping humanitarian aid, really throw the population into utter confusion and deprivation. it is obvious that this is a case-by-case assessment, based on information from our own delegations. i have to say that the significant degree of deconcentration we enjoy today helps a lot. the information comes back to us more reliably and more quickly, and depending on that information, we can either continue working, or negotiate to try to get access where it is needed, or simply stop. but i cannot support a policy which does not take all these elements into account. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but i would like to say that it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter.
question no 46 by hélène goudin (h-0443/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: eu aid policy eu aid policy has been plagued by fraud for years and has also been criticised for serving national interests in the eu. this has seriously damaged the credibility of the union's aid policy. does the commission consider that further action is necessary to prevent further fraud in the area of state aid policy? does the commission recognise that eu state aid policy is heavily influenced by national special interests?
commission madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry to say that the mechanisms currently in place seem to me to be sufficient. the proof is that you are quoting a case which has actually come to our attention through our delegation. so i think that immediately, we put in place all the necessary procedures; complaints were lodged, etc. the whole system responded normally. of course, every effort should be made to avoid fraud. but we also have to make sure that we don't block the whole system. i think that today there are sufficient controls and that the financial rules are sufficiently precise and binding. i'm not questioning them. it is obvious that we are in favour of zero tolerance, but you will have to excuse me, but there is no such thing as zero risk. nor can we multiply and over-multiplied the checks, evaluations, audits and start again only to find that no projects are being implemented. there are emergencies both in humanitarian and developmental terms. you ask me for concrete measures, but you know the measures that are being implemented and i am not in favour, as far as i am aware, of creating additional measures. the olaf mechanism is a fully independent mechanism that works well. the presence of our delegations on the ground brings up extremely important information and, even if we have only mere rumours, there is immediately a rapid alert mechanism that is put in place. i think it would be difficult to do more. the effort we could still make, if you want a concrete measure, is to inform our delegations well, to train them well, so that they are able to react very quickly, to be constantly alert and to take advantage of the information they are likely to receive. i am prepared to debate this, of course, and to reconsider my position, but i think there are already enough controls, particularly in relation to my portfolio. all these checks, assessments, audits, obstacle courses seem to me to be more than enough and i am therefore rather reluctant to invent anything else.
question no 47 by mrs marie anne isler béguin (h-0436/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: initiative to promote peace and dialogue in mauritania in mauritania, tensions do not seem to have eased since the 2003 presidential elections. the failure to reach a consensus on the elections has led to a number of causes of conflict: impunity for ethnic crimes committed between 1989 and 1991, repeated allegations of torture, slavery and the prospect of oil production. as the eu is mauritania's most important economic partner, there is an urgent need to establish and then independently conduct an open dialogue between the mauritanian government, its civilian and armed opponents and human rights organisations. does the commission intend to take a firm initiative to find a negotiated solution to the crisis in mauritania? to do nothing would be to assume responsibility for 'failing to provide aid to a people in danger'.
commission i share your concern, of course. the problem that existed in 2003 certainly did not become more acute in 2004. i can only promise you that we will make sure that the political dialogue with the authorities is resumed very quickly, with a focus on the concerns that you have expressed very well and which i share. in the next few weeks, early next year, i will have a more regular contact with the authorities whom i know well otherwise. in a previous life, when i was foreign minister, i had visited mauritania and was struck by the fact that, although it is a muslim-majority country, mauritania is one of the only muslim countries which has relations with israel and which is trying to be equidistant. i thought that was worthy of some positive appraisal because, although it was a muslim country, this ability to maintain balance in a conflict like this seemed to me to be a sign of intelligence and a willingness not to open up its political action to fundamentalism or excesses of any kind. that is why i think i have no difficulty in reviving this political dialogue. you can count on me to get it back up and running early next year.
thank you very much, commissioner. questions 48 to 87 will be answered in writing. (the sitting was suspended at 7.05 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to return to the debate this afternoon. it is a great pity that the council is not here today to follow our debate on the problems we are facing with the financial perspective. i am a regional politician, and i work for the committee on regional policy in this parliament, and it is clear that we need planning certainty. that means that we need to reach an agreement very soon, and that means that 2005 is the deadline in itself, because otherwise the planning phase for the municipalities will not be sufficient. this also means that it is at the expense of local actors who want to participate in planning, because planning rules arrive much too late at this level. i also support the commissioner in that it is sensible to extend the period to seven years in this first year with the ten new member states, in order to have a long planning phase, particularly in the area of the structural funds. that makes sense technically. i would also like to stress once again that the structural funds must not become a money-saving machine, because cohesion is at the heart of the european union. in the country i know best, there are also contradictions in this relationship. politicians who, on the one hand, make popular speeches on the 1% question, on the other hand, go to brussels and ask for money to solve the structural problems in their region. that is not the kind of european policy we want here!
on behalf of the group. – mr president, first of all i should like to thank mrs lambert for her report. i agree with mr moraes. my group fully supports the report. most of what i would like to say has already been mentioned by mrs lambert in an excellent way. however, i should like to point out that there are tensions between the two directives. the qualifications directive sets standards for refugee status and subsidiary protection. there is a need for the directive on minimum standards on procedures to be adopted to come into line with the other directive. that is not the case at the moment. second, the issue of resettlement should be supported because it is aimed at the most vulnerable. it is not another path of economic migration. it gives hope. at the moment only six member states take advantage of the possibility to take refugees under resettlement schemes, but voluntary deals with the refugees will help both them and the unhcr, which warmly supports resettlement. finally, we should be clear that resettlement and protected entry procedures are not an excuse for cutting back on the rights of asylum-seekers arriving spontaneously in the european union member states.
commission. mr president, honourable members, i am pleased that it appears that the draft regulation on pesticide residues in food and feed can be adopted at second reading. the negotiations between council presidency, the european parliament rapporteurs and the commission have recently gained momentum and last week the final obstacles were cleared. allow me to underline the significance of these regulations for food safety. it will enable us to set harmonised maximum residue levels in the eu for all pesticides and all agricultural products in one piece of legislation directly applicable to all eu citizens. all situations will be covered, including a list of pesticides for which no maximum residue levels are required and the low level that will apply systematically to all pesticides for which we have no information. there will be clarity about how and to whom an mrl application should be made, and on the procedure to be followed. the european food safety authority will carry out the risk assessment for consumers with the best available methodology. control and enforcement by the member states will be reinforced and improved. coordination of monitoring by the commission will have a more obligatory nature. this legislation will benefit all parties. consumers will profit from better protection and more transparency about which pesticides could be present in food and their potential effects. food producers will benefit because there will be more clarity as to what specifications the products have to comply with. control and enforcement bodies will be able to refer to one single community list of maximum residue levels. member state legislators will no longer need to transpose the provisions into national legislation. before i finish, i would like to make a few comments on the finer points resolved in the negotiations. the european parliament's insistence on taking cumulative and synergistic effects into account may lead to a breakthrough in the development and application of the necessary methodology. i am pleased that this is now explicitly mentioned in the draft legislation. i welcome parliament's determination to make an explicit link between the setting of maximum residue levels and good agricultural practice, integrated pest management and the use of the lowest amounts of pesticides necessary. the clear requirement to take into account vulnerable groups of the population, including children and unborn children, is also a useful step forward. these issues make a positive contribution to this regulation. the final phase of the negotiations saw an increasing mutual trust among the parties. i am happy to confirm that the commission can agree to and accept the compromise package worked out between the three institutions. i trust that you will confirm parliament's acceptance at the vote tomorrow. we are now approaching the conclusion of this project. it is time to acknowledge the efforts of all parties and in particular to thank the rapporteur, mr sturdy, for his handling of this dossier and for the time and effort he has put into his report.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the aim of this regulation is to replace four basic directives on pesticide residues. it's about health, it's about food safety. but it is also about equal opportunities in competition in the free internal market and - we should not lose sight of this - equal opportunities in competition on the world market. producers and processors must operate on equal terms, and all consumers have the right to safe food. the european food safety authority has a major responsibility in terms of risk management. it is not helpful for consumers to receive a new warning every week, which may then be lost in generalizations, such as apples from a particular member state exceeding the maximum permitted values. no, such notifications are only helpful if the name of the companies whose products contain pesticide residues above the maximum levels is also disclosed. we set the bar for standards throughout the eu very high, especially for those relating to health, and that is a good thing. but we must also focus more on imports into the european union. we must not have two different standards here. for me, this means increased controls on imports. we don't have access to the way they're produced, the way we have access to the food that's produced here. the need for end-market monitoring and control is all the greater. i am glad that we were able to reach a compromise on the definition of good agricultural practice in the committee. the farmers of europe produce under the strictest legal requirements, best known as the provisions of cross compliance. if you are a law-abiding businessman, you must also be sure that your product is safe for your health. i thank robert sturdy for his work over many months. thank you for this good compromise we were able to find.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would have liked to have attended a meeting of the portuguese social democrats. president barroso has often told us about his blind dates, which are of particular interest to you. i have heard from mr pinheiro this morning that he prefers other forms of cohabitation to marriage. this is an interesting development that we have in portugal. we are not in favour of the wild marriage, mr pinheiro, which the eu is to enter into with turkey. we want solid, resilient, stable, good christian-democratic relations between the union and turkey. (applause and cheers) i would also caution against talking about cultural differences, mr pinheiro. it may be that zagreb looks like europe - but so does istanbul. but that's not the point. the question is whether we are able - and i repeat this once again - to define what your colleague mr eurlings has described precisely in his report: the european union is a community of values, a political community of values, and it is based on the constitution we have given ourselves and on the charter of fundamental rights which we have enshrined in this constitution. and this community of values is open to anyone, without any kind of cultural relativist approach, to anyone who shares these values. i'll say it again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has already expressed its support for the idea of a european union, and we are not going to hide it, but we are going to give our support to mr eurlings in an open vote, because if we succeed in establishing this system of values in a muslim society, we will have proved that this system of values is open to all people, regardless of their religion, colour, culture or ethnic origin. this is why it is so important, mr pinheiro, because we are also discussing the fight against terrorism at this european council and in the run-up to the discussions. for me, there is a direct connection between the question: can we prove that the thesis of the most dangerous terrorists we have today, the islamic fundamentalists, that their islam, which they claim is the only islam, and the value system i've just talked about, are mutually exclusive? can we prove that this theory is not true? i think that the very fact that turkey is negotiating with us, which means that turkey is ready to submit to this constitution and its rules, proves that the implementation of a secular social reality has nothing to do with religion at all, but with the political will of a people. this is the crucial point, and this is an important contribution to the fight against terrorism. (applause from the centre) that is why i believe that the debate on turkey and the debate on counterterrorism are two sides of the same coin. we also discussed romania and bulgaria yesterday in preparation for today's debate and the further development in those countries. we are sad, i admit that our friend nastase did not win the presidential election. it is a fair decision, and we congratulate mr basescu. we can only hope that mr basescu has the high sense of responsibility - which he did not show in the election campaign - not to enter into a coalition in his country with parties which do not want the european union and which trample on our fundamental values. i would like to say to mr watson that we will continue to pay the same attention to romania as you have done so far, particularly when it comes to the question of whether the future romanian president will form a coalition with the extreme right. you can be sure of that, we will be watching this very carefully. (applause from the right) we believe that the debate to be held in the council should deepen what has been achieved under the dutch presidency of the council with regard to the european union's role as mediator in ukraine. i would like to say on behalf of our group, and also specifically to the dutch presidency: the european union has given its full support to what has happened in ukraine in recent weeks, the fundamental change in the domestic political situation in favour of democracy, freedom and human rights. it was the eu that mediated and i think that with the strong support of all the parties involved, including the dutch presidency, progress has been made towards greater democracy and has shown that a european union of several members, pooling its forces and using them together, can make a real contribution to international politics. we are grateful for this and we would like to thank all those involved, javier solana and mr kwaśniewski, but also the dutch presidency. mr nicolaï, i would ask you to convey our group's thanks to the council. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i never use this instrument, but i would ask you to allow me to make the following clarification. i would never defend a regime that is corrupt, whether it is led by socialists or whoever, and that is what i am particularly concerned about here. i have not defended anyone, but i have appealed to mr basescu. i'm not talking about any corrupt politician anywhere, and i'm stating the following: anyone who is corrupt should be punished and should not be at the top of a government. but it is also unacceptable that people should be subject to general suspicion simply because of their membership of a political family.
..... use that others have claimed for themselves, which i do not doubt. if mr cohn-bendit has made a connection with my person, that is not true, and i reject his use of arguments which are mere speculations and do not correspond to the truth. (the president cut the speaker off)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not the commission is now to decide on 17 december whether to open accession negotiations with turkey. turkey's accession to the eu is a great opportunity. the values of the rule of law, democracy and human rights that the european union stands for still need to be upheld in turkey. it is therefore urgent that the negotiations be conducted in a transparent manner and that the necessary democratic changes in turkey be specifically identified. this applies in particular to the situation of the violent clashes in the kurdish regions. i call on the kurds and the turkish military to agree to a ceasefire and to seek a political solution. i am extremely concerned about the increase in human rights violations and murders. i would like to mention the example of 12-year-old urud and his father, but also the new ban on the education and training union. in the context of the accession negotiations, it would be up to turkey to demonstrate, by the actual implementation of its reform plans, that all citizens in turkey are granted equal rights regardless of their origin, that gender equality is established and that the discrimination of certain religions against others is abolished. it is essential that the government in ankara not only passes laws to meet the copenhagen criteria, but also implements them in practice. it is the hope of the 20 million kurds in turkey that, once accession negotiations have begun, their rights will also be guaranteed, that they will be able to live their identity freely, that they will be recognised and that they will be able to return to their villages. it is necessary to abolish the village protectorate system and to abolish the 10% clause for elections. the european union has also expressed its support for the efforts of the turkish authorities to bring about a peaceful solution to the conflict in the region. as a german mep of kurdish origin, i and my group in favour of accession negotiations with turkey are calling on all heads of government to come out in favour of accession negotiations on 17 december. the european union should not be afraid of ankara, and ankara should not be afraid of diyarbakir. turkey can be a bridge between the eu and the islamic countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i have a strange impression of martin schulz's speech in particular, as far as the subject of ukraine is concerned. the european union has consistently built, promoted and guided the democratic movement in ukraine. it would have been very nice if that had been the case! in fact, even in the days of the mass demonstrations, it sometimes seemed that the high representatives of the union were somewhat shy of so much movement, so much living and breathing democracy. i believe that we must learn from these experiences in ukraine, not only we politicians in this parliament but also the diplomats of the european union, the diplomats of the nation states. the security of europe also depends on the state of our neighbouring countries. this is a phrase i have heard many times in recent weeks, but it is not always about our security, our well-being, but if we are serious about these much-quoted european values, then there must be no tolerance, no acceptance of authoritarian, dictatorial systems around us, regardless of our interests! we must, in this situation, where so much is improving in ukraine - we did help a little in the end, but we did far too little - make ourselves aware of the terrible state of affairs in which the citizens and their freedom are in belarus, and we must also discuss russia. you can't say that president putin is russia. in russia there is memorial, in russia there is a very strong movement for freedom, and this is something that also has to determine our diplomacy, our policy towards russia. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to remind our heads of state and government, who are meeting here today, of something. that is, they are elected by the people. they have been elected to represent the interests of their people and thus of their nation state in the european context. they are only first among equals, no more, and they bear an immense responsibility for our common future. in fact, one would have to assume that these heads of state and government represent the will of the people, but right now in existential matters this does not seem to be the case. let us take my own country, the federal republic of germany, as an example. there is a whole new poll on the turkish question. only 15% of germans are in favour of full membership of turkey in the european union, 60% of germans are in favour of special cooperation, what we call privileged partnership, 22% are generally against cooperation between the european union and turkey and only 3% have no opinion at all. nevertheless, our chancellor is representing his own party political opinion in the council. he is the strongest advocate of turkish accession, this huge madness. is that correct? is that responsible? no, it's not that. we find the same situation in other member states. the council must be aware that the decision which will now be taken on the opening of negotiations with turkey is not just a question of further enlargement of the eu. it is an existential question for the european union, for the political union which is so important to us and for our survival in peace in the future. our history reflects the history of europe and shows how difficult it is to deal with all these small, stubborn european peoples. if we blow ourselves up now, there is a danger -- and history shows that -- that we, like all previous empires that grew too fast, that got too bloated, broke apart and collapsed, will self-destruct. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. although we know that we cannot afford to integrate this vast country. it is, as bitter as it sounds, too big, too heterogeneous, too poor, too populous. we can't do that, we've expanded a lot this year and we've got three more countries coming in. we need to consolidate our position. we must first find each other and the german reunification shows how difficult this is. we have not yet succeeded in doing so. i appeal to our leaders to be aware that they represent the opinion of the people, that they have to convey the opinion of the people to the outside world, and the opinion of the majority of the european population, i am convinced, is: please be careful with promises to turkey. we can't afford to do that!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i did not want to speak to turkey either. i've said all i can say about that, but mrs. sommer is making me do it. everyone brings the polls they can use. i know that polls in germany show that people are not opposed to turkey becoming a member. i can only say that i warn against the kind of dramatization and exaggeration that you have just done. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity. let us wait ten years and see what happens, and then turkey may be the 30th member of a large union of 500 million people. so please keep a cool head and a little more calm and not so much drama and emotion in this debate. my subject is also about the wider europe, mr president-in-office. i would like to commend you for holding a series of conferences on european identity. that was very good and very necessary. we must ask ourselves what holds the 450 million europeans together. what is it that unites us from estonia to portugal, from scotland to greece? and we all know that these are the values of europe. it is also the good aims of the european union, its commitment to peace, freedom and justice. these are the things that unite us in europe. it is particularly important in the next two years, during the ratification phase of the constitution, to convey these things and not to get lost in details. i therefore very much welcome the fact that in paragraphs 66 and 67 of the conclusions of the summit on friday you ask the commission to give these matters priority in its communication strategy. i think that is the way to win people over - and mrs wallström is doing her work in that direction - so i encourage you to decide that because we can use that. in this context i also think that paragraphs 69 and 52, in which we commit ourselves to human rights, are very good. the european agency for human rights, which has been decided upon, must now also come. europe needs this instrument, and our values are important for our identity at home, but also for our authority in the world outside, and in this sense i would like to congratulate you but also encourage you to push these things forward.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are aware of rule 162, and we are also aware from the voting list that, on the basis of rule 162, 147 members are clearly calling for a secret vote on various amendments and on the final vote. i would therefore like to say on behalf of our group, on this article 162: the socialist group prefers the roll-call vote because it believes that the citizens of europe have a right to know how the members of the european parliament are voting on this fundamental question. (applause from the centre) we also note that the epp group in this house is unable to take a coherent and uniform line. the 147 signatures are mainly from this group and i thank the former belgian prime minister, mr dehaene, who also made it clear to the members of this group that this rule may be legally acceptable, but it is politically totally unacceptable. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to the same article as mr wurtz. the right to vote by secret ballot is a classic minority right which i defend, although i have no problem in voting clearly against turkey's accession. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i voted against opening accession talks with turkey. i think this is a matter of principle. the european union, founded in rome in 1957, has always been defined as christian and democratic, based on greek philosophy, roman law and the christian faith. with today's wrong decision by the european parliament we are saying goodbye to this spirit of rome. the eu as we know it today would be history. the former french president giscard d'estaing is quite right. god bless the christian west. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the positive first: we have intensified our confrontational course on human rights, which is not directed against the people but against the government, by demanding freedom for the kurds and the recognition and redress of the genocide of the armenians. it is also positive that we did not call for turkey to be admitted, but against my vote, simply for accession negotiations to begin. if we see that among those who are in favour of accession negotiations there are many who are ultimately against accession, we can say that we are on the right track. we were a minority for a while, but today the relatively strongest group in this house, the epp, has joined this course and now we need 40 colleagues in this house who will take a clear position in the next few years, then there will be no majority in this house for turkey's accession to the european union if we then vote on this subject in a legally binding manner. the european parliament has already made a number of recommendations to the council and the commission on the future of the european union.
in writing. - on behalf of the csu members of the european parliament, i would like to make clear once again our position on the possible opening of accession negotiations with turkey. today's vote has shown that the model of the privileged partnership is shared by many colleagues from all eu member states and all political groups. this in particular refutes those who claim that the cdu and csu are isolated in europe on this issue. i hope that the european council will take this into account in its deliberations on friday. we still believe that the success story of the european union is massively threatened by the inclusion of turkey. if you want europe to degenerate into a free trade area, you can do it by accepting turkey. but if we want a strong and active europe, we can achieve this through special relations, such as a privileged partnership. the european council on friday must be aware of this responsibility.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i welcome the fact that we have made clear statements to russia. this is like turkey, a pan-european country which will never join the eu, but is an extremely important partner. but precisely because it is an important partner, we must insist that democracy and the rule of law are not systematically undermined and that the genocide of the chechen people is not continued in a colonial war. and that is why i want to make it very clear to mr putin from here: we regard russia as an important partner, but his statement against ukraine, against the freedom movement there, against the liberation of central and eastern europe, is an attack on free europe. we hope for cooperation here and not for a continuation of this unacceptable course of confrontation.
i thank you, mr kristovskis, for this personal statement. the services of parliament will look into what you have said and will consider whether an inquiry can be opened.
the next item is the report (a6-0065/2004) by mr geoffrey van orden, on the progress made by bulgaria towards accession (com (2004) 0657 - c6-0150/2004 - 2004/2183 (ini)).
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not prepared to accept this. unlike turkey, bulgaria is a distinctly european country that has come a long way. i was present in 1990 when the first attempt was made to hold free elections in bulgaria. there were still fakes, but an impressive democracy movement. much of it reminded me of the situation in ukraine today. bulgaria has managed to overcome these crisis situations step by step and is today a serious and promising candidate for accession to the european union with a rich culture and an important stabilizing effect for the entire balkan peninsula. although there is still much to be done, particularly in the areas of the rule of law, the judiciary and the administration, where some reforms are still needed, it can be said that bulgaria is by far the furthest away from all the candidate countries. unless you forget a country we should never forget, namely croatia. i would like to take this opportunity to appeal to the president-in-office of the council to accept croatia at the forthcoming summit without any harassment or special conditions and to make a major contribution to the immediate opening of negotiations with croatia. both countries should become members of the european union in this decade. the excellent report by mr van orden makes a very important contribution to this. bulgaria has achieved one thing in particular, namely that there is cross-party cooperation between prime minister sakskoburggotski and the president of the republic. this is the precondition for the country to successfully complete its path to the eu in the coming years. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states, and i would like to thank the commission for its efforts in this area. i think that this speech could be summed up in one word: yes to bulgaria.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the development of bulgaria in the accession process is also considered by my group to be a success story, with some necessary restrictions. we therefore believe that this house can in good conscience approve the country's accession to the european union in 2007. we support the report by mr van orden and i would like to thank him personally and mrs dobolyi of the socialist group for the good cooperation. the report, mr van orden said, is intentionally kept short. i therefore propose that we discuss all the other amendments, some of which are very detailed, next year in the context of the longer report which will then be due. bulgaria's membership of the european union until 2007 is well under way. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to draw attention to a fundamental problem: the question of the actual observance of the principle of efficiency. the commission and the council have agreed that each candidate should be admitted on his own merits. but it is not compatible with this that a candidate who meets the conditions is held back by the slower progress of other countries. the result is that the faster countries join too late and the slower ones too early. simply put, those who perform are punished, those who screw up are rewarded. that has to change. the credibility of the union as a whole is damaged when it practices a contradiction to the principle of efficiency. the commissioner verheugen has exaggerated this, for example, in the big bang enlargement in may of this year, and has thus done the union harm. it would have been good if faster candidates like estonia and slovenia could have made their contribution here much earlier. it is only for this reason, namely to preserve the credibility of the european union and not because there is any doubt about the european perspective of either candidate, that my group has always supported separate accession treaties for bulgaria and romania. graham watson confirmed this in the house this morning. i therefore call on the commission and the council, and also on us here in parliament, to ensure that in the current and future enlargement rounds the performance principle is not just announced with pomp and then ignored in favour of package deals, but is actually implemented. the council's decision to adopt a differentiated approach between bulgaria and romania for the competition and justice chapters is a welcome sign. the facilitated mechanism for invoking the safeguard clause vis-à-vis romania enhances the credibility of the accession process and thus the credibility of the european union itself. i think that we should not have this debate in strasbourg, but in brussels.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that the presidential elections last sunday have already shown that democracy in romania is very much alive and functioning. this has not always been the case, and we can be glad of that. it is to be hoped that the forces now freed will be used to push forward the reforms and that the political situation in bucharest will not be blocked. we can only hope. i was a member of the romanian delegation from 1999 to 2004. if you compare that time period, 1999 and today, the country has made a big step forward. for all the criticism in certain areas, it must be said that the last anastasi government has done a lot for romania. the country has really made great strides in many areas. but it must also be remembered that there is still a lot of work to be done for the romanians. the commission has not yet done everything to achieve the standard that is in force in the european union. i can only repeat what many colleagues have said: an independent judiciary, independent of the executive, independent of individual political forces, is actually a prerequisite for working in the eu. there's still some work to be done. i also hope that the fight against corruption can be improved. corruption is theft from the citizens, and the new president has done a lot of work on this, hopefully not only with the small fish, but also with the big fish. whatever the office and dignity, corruption must be fought. it's a theft from the citizens. i think it would be completely wrong to put up new obstacles now, both from the romanian side and from our side. the negotiations should be concluded and i thank the rapporteur, mr moscovici, for presenting such an excellent report. the year 2007 must be the date on which we integrate romania into the european family and thus into european standards.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think we need to get back to more honesty here. i am very grateful to mr lagendijk for asking for this, even though we have reached different conclusions with regard to turkey. he is absolutely right, we must demand this also in connection with romania. i think that means that we have to say goodbye to some dogmas. dogma number one is that deadlines that have been put in place at some point are more sacred than progress or the realities as they really present themselves. i want to make that very clear. we will not be doing ourselves a favour by sticking to the date of 1 january 2007 for romania's accession. secondly - and i am addressing you specifically, mr president-in-office, because we have had the pleasure of discussing the budget together - we are talking about a period for which we do not yet know how much money we have at our disposal, because we need a new financial perspective from 1 january 2007. if you stick to your second dogma, which is that 1% then we will not be able to shoulder all of this. we cannot say on the one hand that europe is getting bigger and bigger, that the tasks are getting bigger and bigger, but the money is getting smaller and smaller. then please be honest and say clearly, we cannot finance it. let's first negotiate the financial perspective, and then let's decide if that even fits in. thirdly, and i say this very clearly, i have heard in every speech now the problems we still have to overcome, not us, but romania: corruption, democracy, the rule of law. yes, what are we talking about when we talk about membership of the european union? is this not the prerequisite, as we learned this afternoon? this is not the precondition for the opening of negotiations, says the majority of this house. i don't see it that way. but in the end, before we have a treaty of accession presented to us here - and it is announced to us for the next six months - things will have to be arranged at some point. we are lying to ourselves if we pretend that monitoring processes, clauses which have been introduced but which will never come into force because they require unanimity in the council, justify the confidence that everything will be fine. that is why i am asking you, mr president-in-office, to take the matter up with the conclusions of next friday. i know you have the problem of not having much to show for it. no one can blame you. europe has not been so active during the six months you have held the presidency. we had european elections, and then it took a while for the commission to come into office. the presidency cannot be blamed for this. but you are responsible for the fact that we do not lie to ourselves every six months, even in the council documents, and write in there that everything has gone further, that everything has improved further, when it is not true. my request: write something honest on friday. and my request to this house is that we take an honest vote on this matter tomorrow.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not i'm not going to tell you. if we take the council's words that we want to promote sustainable development in the european union seriously, and if we look at the way it is actually implementing it, where it could be done, we see that the member states are not really showing the will. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of animals during transport. this does not mean that i do not agree that the commission has made an effort, and indeed some positive changes have been made. i do not want to hide this, but the basic principle has remained the same. i am absolutely convinced that any of you who decided in the council that there is no limit on the transport times of animals and that there is no limit on the density of animals that can be transported in this way, once you have transported your pets back and forth across europe, will very quickly introduce different rules. if we want to protect the right to life, the right of animals, then we need a different approach. of course, the introduction of the gsp will bring something. you can do better checks. that is beyond dispute. and of course, if the animals are provided with water, with better ventilation, with air, that is a small step forward, but it does not solve the problem. if we want regional development, we can really demonstrate it here, we can set up animal husbandry, fattening and processing on the spot within a foreseeable perimeter, and we do not have to organise these transports throughout the european union. i can't understand mr maat at all. he said it was a big step forward. i didn't see that big step forward. it is a plaster cast without removing the main problems and the main causes of this animal cruelty.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, you have spoken of emotions here in parliament. i am sure that this is due to the subject, but it is also due to the endless history we are dealing with here. it is not the first time, not the second time, not the third time, but it is perhaps the dozenth time that we have had to deal with this. for well over a decade we have been trying to improve things here, and there is always talk of progress, but the decisive progress has not been made. i believe that we will only achieve a real breakthrough if the european parliament also has a say in agricultural matters. i think that's gonna come before the satellite navigation system. well, i'm betting more on our perseverance. i would like to say that it is also a question of transport times, but it is essential whether the conditions are right, namely whether animals are being transported as tortured creatures or whether they are travelling as our fellow creatures. when an arabian stallion is bought for breeding in the middle east, there is no need to worry that it will arrive here in poor condition. or if our animals travel to the olympics, they will arrive there reasonably well. so it depends on the conditions. i think it is also important that we reach agreement with the consumers. we have established programmes for quality meat in the federal republic of germany, where transport time is also a quality criterion. or take organic farming, where they take the next slaughterhouse. where this is a quality criterion, it is also applied in practice.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not i am not making a confidential statement, but an open one, on the basis of rule 157. we have had a discussion in our group on the amount to be granted under paragraph 3. it is a big meeting in the rhineland, in my home country, where the catholic church, among others, but also other organisations, are organising a big meeting of young people. i know this meeting myself, having been able to attend it in another capacity. that's a good thing. the meeting is to be accompanied by a state visit by the pope. (disturbance in the hall) his holiness will be attending this meeting, and we would like to have the following recorded: the organisers of this meeting would be pleased to demonstrate to the eu institutions that the pope's state visit is in no way financed by these funds. the vatican has to pay for it. (applause and protest)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i should like to explain very briefly why our group has withdrawn its signature from this joint motion for a resolution. the socialist group was opposed to this procedure in principle because we believe that the commission should first present its programme and then parliament should comment on it. we are losing the conference of presidents and this procedure has been initiated. the text of the resolution before us has been supported by us up to a certain point. there are also many points in this text which we can live with and accept. but there are some essential elements of this text which, after a long debate in our group last night, have led us to believe that at this stage it is not parliament that should be speaking on these points, but the commission first. we therefore want the procedure which is normal in each member state to be followed, namely that the government first presents its programme and then parliament gives its opinion. this should be done this time too, and we are now waiting for the commission to present its programme. we shall not be taking part in this vote.
in writing. the commission has been working on this for some time, and i am sure that it will be very useful to the council. on the one hand, the treaty of amsterdam transferred legislative competence from the member states to the ec, thus removing it from the national parliaments. on the other hand, it was assigned solely to the council and thus to the national executive assembled. the european parliament is involved only by way of opinions. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the legislative process. the present draft council decision on the transition to the codecision procedure is therefore a long overdue step towards the parliamentarisation of legislation. however, the council is planning to reserve some areas to the executive alone. the bourlanges report criticises this very point, and that is why i support it. the problem with this report, however, is that it insists on a constitutional provision which allows member states to unilaterally prohibit third-country nationals from entering the labour market. i have already criticised this provision, which the german federal government has inserted into the constitution, as a member of the constitutional convention. this is not just a reflection of national egos. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new forms of work organization. i believe that this provision is one of the first questions to be examined after the entry into force of the constitution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. two short points. firstly, the vote on turkey. i voted in favour of amendment no 16 by mr langen on the eurling report on turkey. but there's no record of that. maybe the machine didn't work. i'm asking you to correct that. secondly, we had the vote on the eu-russia summit yesterday. we said that we should involve all parts of chechen society in the peace process. today i am informed that the family of president masradov, who was elected under the supervision of the osce, including his elderly siblings, aged between 69 and 75, have been abducted and arrested by russian intelligence. i ask you to examine this information and, if necessary, to protest to the russian authorities.
mr president, madam president of the council! zimbabwe has always experienced complicated periods and deep-seated ruptures, whether it was colonialism, the so-called unilateral declaration of independence in 1965 under ian smith and the subsequent un embargo, the war of liberation from 1972 to 1978 and the first democratic elections after independence with the victory of zanu under robert mugabe. as an east german, however, i am always struck by how often it happens that leaders who come to power with lofty aspirations, then, so to speak, distance themselves from their own original goals and ideas and, the longer they hold power, the less they take into account the interests of the population. of course, zimbabwe is still facing enormous problems. i think the only thing we can recommend today is that zimbabwe should look around at how the neighbouring countries have done. what south africa is doing, what namibia is doing, what angola is doing, what mozambique is doing is trying to balance the different interests in their countries. peace requires that we try to understand each other, and that we do so by peaceful means and that we take into account the most diverse interests. land reform in zimbabwe is necessary. but there are other ways of doing it. the european union should not always make recommendations to anyone, so to speak, on the basis of our values. that's what's wrong with it. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the european union has been a major supporter of the russian president yeltsin, who was suffering from alcoholism. we should rely on the fact that the southern african development community has a lot of influence in this particular case, and that it has a chance that the african union can make progress with its influence. i am convinced that if we support these countries in their efforts to influence zimbabwe, we will have the opportunity to contribute to the fair and democratic elections that are due to take place in march.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the situation in the congo is comparable to that in germany during the thirty years' war. a great country in the middle of a continent is broken up and the different groups are allied with different neighboring powers and there has been no peace for decades. this is precisely the situation that has existed in the congo for decades, millions of people dying, whole swathes of land being desolated, the economy being in decline for decades. and just as after the thirty years' war, there will be no solution in the congo unless, as then, the religious groups in the congo today involve the ethnic groups in a peace process that includes all the neighbouring states. we therefore attach great importance to putting enormous pressure on the countries bordering the great lakes, and especially on rwanda, to finally act as stabilizers and not to intervene actively in the destruction of the congo, which is already suffering so much. but we cannot do this with words alone. that is why my colleague mr langen and i have started to develop a holistic strategy, finally linking economic policy, foreign policy and development policy. because we can't operate here with words alone. europe will only be able to assert its weight if it strategically links its economic, political and diplomatic resources and takes a genuinely active part in this peace process. commissioner, you may be wondering what this debate on thursday afternoon will accomplish in a room not very full. i remember a time when we were discussing the decolonization of lithuania from soviet oppression, and today we have a lithuanian commissioner here. i am happy about that and i am sure that this issue - peace and human rights for the congo - is in good hands with you.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not i am pleased to speak directly after john bowis, who has shown in a very impressive way where we are 20 years after 3 december 1984, with the 35 tonnes of highly toxic gas mixture, the 7,000 people who died of respiratory failure and cardiac arrest. and today, there are about 25,000 victims of the largest chemical accident in history. some 500,000 people suffer from these disabilities on a permanent basis. but what has been done for those affected? the investigation has clearly revealed that 15 years ago there was a $470 million settlement between union carbide and the indian government. so far, the 100,000 officially registered victims have each received $300 each. there are 2,500 homes for widows, there are seven hospitals, there are many facilities that have been built. but what happened to the other about $400 million? mrs. gill, you really have to ask the question of guilt. the soil is still contaminated. the groundwater is contaminated, permanently contaminated with mercury. toxic residues are stored open. no wonder situations like the one john bowis described arise: chronic illness, brain damage, miscarriages. indian prime minister singh must work to ensure that the medical care of those affected is substantially improved. and the government should follow the supreme court's ruling to finally release the fund so that compensation can be paid in full. many chemical companies in india and other parts of the world still produce with labour and environmental standards far below those in the european union or the united states. i am the rapporteur for the reach programme in the committee on employment and social affairs and i can only repeat the request made in the working paper: we need a european union regulation, but also a regulation at the level of wto standards so that we can achieve comparability. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in a way that is not harmful to the environment.
